Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7442-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 116.2 MILLION
(US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
March 23, 2001
Macroeconomics 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: July 1- June 3D
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$1=USh 1,752 (March 1, 2001)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        African Development Bank          LGDP         Local Government Development
AG          Auditor General                                Project
BFP         Budget Framework Paper            M & E        Monitoring and Evaluation
BOU         Bank of Uganda                    MOES         Ministry of Edlucation and Sports
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy       MOFPED    Ministry of Finance, Planning and
CDF         Comprehensive Development                      Economic Development
Framework                         MOH         Ministry of Health
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability  MOI          Ministry of Information
Assessment                        MOIA        Ministry of Internal Affairs
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment    MOJCA        Ministry of Justice and Constitution
Report                                        Affairs
DA          Directorate of Accounts           MOLG         Ministry of Local Government
DHS         Demographic and Health Survey     MOPS         Ministry of Public Service
DFID        Department for International      MOWLE    Ministry of W ater, Lands and
Development (UK)                              Environment
DOEI        Directorate of Ethics and Integrity  MTBF      Medium Term Budget Framework
DWD         Directorate of Water Development    MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure
DWST        District Water and Sanitation Team             Framework
EFMPII    Second Economic and Financial       NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
Management Project                NWSC        National Water and Sewerage
EPI         Expanded Program for Immunization              Corporation
ESW         Economic Sector Work              PAF          Poverty Action Fund
GAAP        Generally Accepted Accounting     PEAP         Poverty Eradization Action Plan
Practice                          PMA         Plan for Modernization of Agriculture
GDP         Gross Domestic Product            PMO          Prime Minister's Office
GOU         Government of Uganda              PNFP         Private Not-For-Profit
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Country     PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth
HSSP        Health Sector Strategic Plan                   Facility
ICBP        Institutional Capacity Building   PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Project                           PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ICRG        International Country Risk Guide  SWAP         Sector-wide Approach
IDA         International Development         TDMS         Teacher Development and
Association                                   Management System
IFAC        International Federation of       TSU          Technical Support Unit
Accountants                       UPE         Universal Prirmary Education
IFMS        Integrated Financial Management   UPPAP        Uganda Participation Poverty
Systems                                       Assessment Project
IGG         Inspector General of Government   URA          Uganda Revenue Authority
IMF         International Monetary Fund       VAT          Value Added Tax
WSS         Water Supply and Sanitation
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:       James W. Adams, AFCO4
Sector Manager:         Frederick Kilby, AFTM2
Task Manager:           Ritva Reinikka, DECRG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..................................................      i
I. INTRODUCTION                                   . . . 1
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION. 3
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .3
B. POVERTY REDUCTION                            .5
C. PROGRESS IN SOCIAL AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ............................................. 6
III. UGANDA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND AREAS FOR WORLD BANK
SUPPORT .7
A. POVERTY ERADICATION ACTION PLAN (PEAP)/
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER (PRSP)       .         .                    7
B. POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC).                                  8
C. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR I: FRAMEWORK FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH AND TRANSFORMATION  .9
Efficient and Equitable Use of Public Resources .12
D. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR II: ENSURING GOOD GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY .14
Improving Management Systems and Practices in the Public Sector  .   15
Transparency, Participation, and Anti-Corruption .17
E. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR III: DIRECTLY INCREASING THE ABILITY OF THE POOR TO RAISE THEIR ....
INCOMES .19
F. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR IV: DIRECTLY INCREASING THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THE POOR.   19
Improving Quality of Education .20
Improving Quality of Health Care .21
Improving Access to and Equity in Water and Sanitation .23
IV. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY .24
A. THE WORLD BANK GROUP .24
B. COORDINATION WITH IMF .25
C. COOPERATION WITH AFD .25
D. PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL AND BILATERAL DONORS .26
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .26
A. REFORM MEASURES AND ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR To BOARD PRESENTATION .26
B. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .27
C. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION .28
D. BENEFITS AND RIsKs .30
VI. RECOMMENDATION .31
The task team includes Ritva Reinikka (DECRG); Philip Gowers (AFC04); Mary Mulusa, Paud Murphy (AFTHI);
Lucy Keough (AFTII); Navin Girishankar, Denyse Morin, Michael Stevens (AFT12); Satu Kahk6nen, Geremia
Palomba (AFTM2); Anthony Hegarty, Rogati Kayani (AFTQK); Ato Brown, Fook Chuan Eng, Alain Locussol
(AFTUI); Mary Bitekerezo, Robert Blake, Joseph Kizito, Harriet Nannyonjo, Peter Okwero (AFMUG); Aberra
Zerabruk (LEGOP); and David Bevan, Charles Byaruhanga, Kenneth Green, Arild Hauge, and Kithinji Kiragu
(consultants).
Advisors include Brian Falconer (AFTQK), Mick Foster (extemal), Malcolm Holmes (PREMPS, until July 2000),
Charles Humphreys (AFTM4), and Allister Moon (ECSPE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT'
CONTENTS (cont'd)
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1:   Letter of Development Policy
Schedule 2:   Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies and Progress Indicators
Schedule 3:   Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets
ANNEXES
Annex 1:     Institutional Reform Program
Annex 2:     Environmental and Social Analysis
Annex 3:     Uganda - At a Glance
Annex 4:     Uganda - Social Indicators
Annex 5:     Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 6:     Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 7:      Uganda - Balance of Payments
Annex 8:     Uganda - Status of Bank Group Operations



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:            The Republic of Uganda
Amount:              SDR 116.2 million (US$150 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period
Description:         The proposed Credit of SDR  116.2 million (US$150 million
equivalent) is a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) that would
support the implementation of Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as
summarized in the first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and
the PRSP Progress Report. The reform program focuses on improving
basic service delivery. It is envisaged that there will be two further
single-tranche PRSCs (each in the amount of US$150 million
equivalent) over the next two years.
Uganda's reform program under the PRSC would improve public
service delivery through:
* Efficient and equitable use of public resources, which is essential for
improving public resource allocation and raising the productivity and
cost-efficiency of public investment and other expenditures.
* Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector reforms,
such as the reform of public service and pay, public procurement,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation and measures to
increase transparency and participation, and fight corruption. The
revision of the current public pay structure and human resource
management practices will help Government recruit and retain high-
quality staff. Improvements in public procurement and financial
management will promote accountability for public resources, and
enhanced transparency, participation, and anti-corruption efforts will
help citizens hold their leaders and public officials more accountable
for the quantity and quality of services.
* Improved access to and quality of education, health care, and water
and sanitation services. Effective delivery of basic services will not
improve unless binding sector-specific constraints are addressed.
However, many problems in basic service sectors are beyond the
mandate of a particular sector and require collaboration across agencies
and departments.
i



Benefits:              The proposed Credit has several benefils over the traditional
combination of short-term adjustment credits and investment projects:
* A programmatic approach promotes Ugandan ownership of its
poverty reduction and public expenditure programs, improves
predictability of funding, strengthens budgetary institutions, and
reduces transaction costs in the delivery of external assistance.
*  A multi-sectoral approach promotes coordination and collaboration
that are essential ingredients for institutional r eform.
* A comprehensive approach addresses sector and system-wide
problems in service delivery effectively.
Risks:                 Several risks attend the reform program under the PRSC:
* There are pervasive institutional and human capacity weaknesses.
They are especially acute at the district level, given the ongoing
decentralization. There is a risk that these constraints could impede
the improvements in service delivery. However, in addition to
ongoing investment projects and non-lending services, the reform
program is geared to addressing institutional deficiencies and hence
will help mitigate these risks.
* Corruption remains a serious problem, which, hitherto, has shown
only limited signs of responding to Government's anti-corruption
measures. It could inhibit private sector confidence and investment
and hamper improvements in service delivery. However, the top
leadership in Uganda is committed to rebuilding Uganda's ethics and
integrity. Key challenges facing Government are the implementation
of its anti-corruption action plan and building an effective incentive
system needed to improve service delivery. The reform program
supports both of these efforts.
* Fiduciary risks, which are spelled out in detail in the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (C(FAA) and Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), are high.  Efforts to
mitigate these risks are at the center of the reform program.
Estimated
Disbursements:         SDR 116.2 million (US$150 million equivalent) will be disbursed
upon Credit effectiveness (expected in May 2001).
Project ID Number:     PE-P050438
. .



THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   Uganda's recent success in economic revival and poverty reduction can be understood only
in terms of its past. Over the period 1971-85 both the Ugandan economy and society collapsed.
The economic consequences of the prolonged conflict included massive capital flight, mass
emigration of the skilled workforce, and the breakdown of institutions. Since then, Government
has succeeded in bringing back many of those who emigrated, re-establishing macroeconomic
stability, and reversing capital flight through measures that have rebuilt investor confidence. It
has also embarked upon the task of rebuilding institutions, but this is necessarily a long process.
2.   The development challenges of Uganda are many. Despite a dramatic fall in poverty in the
1990s, 35 percent of the population remain in abject poverty. Eradication of poverty is the
number one priority on the country's development agenda. Maintaining growth at levels
sufficient to reduce poverty will require addressing the remaining constraints to growth,
especially impediments to the enterprise sector and rural development. Moreover, despite the
substantial increase in government resources allocated for social services, commensurate progress
in social and human development has not been forthcoming. Although key education and health
indicators have improved in the past decade, most social indicators are still worse than average
when compared to the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. To facilitate poverty eradication, the key
challenge will be to replicate the excellent macroeconomic policy and implementation record at
the sector level.
3.   Among the key constraints to economic growth, development, and poverty reduction in
Uganda are weaknesses in basic service delivery. Basic services critical to development are
inadequate (such as education, health care, rural roads, and water and sanitation). In addition, the
services delivered, in particular by the public sector, are of poor quality due to various
governance problems and capacity constraints. The institutional reform agenda to address
governance problems and weak capacity requires interventions both at the sector level and
system-wide. At the same time the delivery of basic services is being decentralized, which
further complicates the reform agenda.
4.   Government has responded to these challenges by preparing a comprehensive medium-
term development strategy, the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The summary of the
PEAP served as the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) presented to the Boards of the
Bank and the Fund in April 2000.1 The first PRSP Progress Report is presented to the Bank's
Board together with the proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). Government's
strategy for economic transformation and poverty reduction is based on four key pillars:
e Creating an enabling environment for economic growth and structural transformation;
* Ensuring good governance and security;
' The PRSP (IDA/SecM2000-145) was presented to the Board on April 13, 2000.
1



* Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes through rural
development and expansion of non-farm activities; and
* Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor through the provision of primary
education, health care, and water and sanitation services.
5.   The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supports Uganda's economic
transformation and poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the PEAP/PRSP. The Bank
Group's main instruments include economic and sector work, investment projects in
infrastructure (electric power and roads) and capacity building, and programmatic support in
basic services. The proposed Credit is, therefore, the Bank's principal instrument to assist the
Government of Uganda in reforms aimed at improving public service: delivery through the
following measures:
* Efficient and equitable use ofpublic resources, which is essential for improving public
resource allocation and raising the productivity and cost-efficiency of public
investment and other expenditures.
* Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector reforms, such as the reform
of public service and pay, public procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and measures to increase transparency and participation and fight
corruption. The revision of the current public pay structure and human resource
management practices will help Government recruit and retain high-quality staff.
Improvements in public procurement and financial management will promote
accountability for government resources, and enhanced transparency will help citizens
hold their leaders and public officials more accountable for the quantity and quality of
services.
* Improved access to and quality of education, health care, and water and sanitation
services. Effective public delivery of these basic services will not improve until
sector-specific constraints are addressed. However, many current problems are cross-
cutting and require collaboration across agencies and departments.
6.   The proposed Credit has several benefits over the traditional combination of short-term
adjustment credits and a large portfolio of investment projects:
* A programmatic approach promotes Ugandan ownership of its poverty reduction and
public expenditure programs, improves predictability of funding, strengthens
budgetary institutions, and reduces transaction costs in delivery of external assistance.
* A multi-sectoral approach promotes coordination and collaboration that are essential
ingredients for institutional reforrn.
* A comprehensive approach addresses sector and system-wide problems in service
delivery effectively.
2



I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY
REDUCTION
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
7.   Uganda's  economic   perfor-
mance in the past decade has been                 Figure 1: Trends in Coffee Eiport
impressive. The average real rate of                       Volumes and Prices
GDP growth has been 6.4 percent per       500                                     3D0
2              ~~~~~~~~~4.50
annum since 1991/92,2 resulting in an     4.00                                    2.50
annual 3.3 percent increase in real       350              2/l0
GDP per capita. The pace of economic     300/
growth moderated to 5.0 percent in   a 250                  fL50
1999/00, largely due to adverse terms   : 2.00                 *00
of trade as a result of a fall in         L50
intemational coffee  prices  and  an     1.  0.50
increase in oil prices.  While still    0.00                                      0.00
relatively high, the growth was lower        90191 9192 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 971/98 98/99 99/00
than Uganda's target growth rate of 7                    60 kg bags) --4--Cof
percent.  The economy is expected  ______ -___o__-_______                     P.,_____
slightly to pick up in this fiscal year,
with GDP expected to grow by 5-6 percent. Annual average consumer price inflation has fallen
from 42.4 percent in 1991/92 to 6.3 percent in 1999/00. In 1999/00, inflation was slightly higher
than the target of 5 percent per annum due to the impact of extemal terms of trade shocks.
Overall, however, Government's management of the negative trade shock and achievement of a
relatively high growth rate despite adverse extemal environment are commendable.
8.   Industry and services have led the
growth  in  the  past decade.   The
agricultural sector, which  constitutes              Igure2: TermsofTradelndex
almost 50 percent of GDP, grew  on    BO
average by about 4 percent per annum in   160
the last decade. The sector has benefited    140
from  the  price  and  exchange  rate   no
liberalization  programs of the  early   o00
1990s. However, in 1999/00, growth in    80
agriculture slowed to about 3 percent    60           n
owing to drought conditions prevailing    40
in several parts of the country and a    20
sharp decline in the extemal terms of      0
trade.  Overall, the private sector has      90/91 9J92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00
responded positively to the economic               ou     - odafTeofTrade, 1991400
reforms of the 1990s, including trade
liberalization, privatization, civil service, and financial sector reforms. Both domestic investment
and foreign direct investment as well as exports have increased substantially. However,
2Unless otherwise stated, the years refer to the Government of Uganda fiscal year.
3



diversification of production has been relatively slow, which represenls a major challenge to
public policy.
9.   Government has successfully established fiscal discipline and restructured public
expenditure. The latter has been a result of two key developments. First, since 1997 the PEAP
has guided government policies and expenditure allocation. Second, since 1997/98 Government
has used the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to align the allocation of public
resources with spending priorities articulated in the PEAP and to ensure medium-term financial
stability by coordinating the allocation of public expenditure in a framework that ensures
consistency with the overall resource constraint. Resource mobilization, however, still remains a
challenge for Uganda. The domestic revenue-to-GDP ratio rose in the early 1990s, but has since
stagnated in the 10 tol  percent range.3
10. Since 1998/99, Government has restricted defense expenditures to no more than two
percent of the forecast GDP. Consistent with this, defense expenditures in 1999/00 were
budgeted at USh 177 billion and actual defense expenditures were slightly below this level at
about USh 175 billion. Similarly, in 2000/01 defense expenditures were budgeted at USh 191
billion and expenditures to date are in line with the ceiling. The IMF and [DA closely monitor all
public expenditures, including military expenditures, through the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) and annual public expenditure reviews.
11.  The constraint on economic development from high debt has been less of an obstacle since
Uganda's participation in the Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) initiative. Uganda was the
first country under the HIPC initiative to reach the completion point of a debt reduction package
in 1998 and qualify for enhanced relief in 2000. The estimated net present value of the country's
debt relief is US$1 billion and that of debt-to-exports ratio is currently 150 percent.
12.  Sustaining high economic growth in Uganda is, however, an issue. Output and exports
remain dependent on agriculture, which leaves Uganda vulnerable to droughts, plant diseases, and
commodity price fluctuations. Changes in coffee prices are of particular concern because over
half of Uganda's export revenues come from coffee and Uganda's high economic growth rates in
the past decade were partially driven by temporarily high intemational coffee prices. Similarly,
the potential for growth from price liberalization has now been largely exploited and, therefore,
further economic growth requires addressing sector and difficult governance issues. This will
require a higher level of investment and accelerated institutional reform. From the firm
perspective the most binding constraints to investment are high prices and poor quality of
infrastructure services (electric power and roads), corruption, weak tax administration, and
inadequate financial services.  From the perspective of farmers and non-farm  household
enterprises, key constraints are limited access to credit, education and markets.
13.  Uganda's total external financing requirements are estimated at US$7.3 billion for
2000/01-2002/03. Of this amount, Uganda is expected to generate about UJS$5 billion from own
resources, leaving a gap of about US$2.3 billion to be financed from extemal sources, including
debt relief. According to the outcome of the Consultative Group meeting held in Kampala in
March 2000, donors pledged adequate resources to cover Uganda's external financing gap. The
proposed Credit would constitute part of IDA's contribution to filling this external financing gap.
3 Unless otherwise stated, all data reported at market prices.
4



B. POVERTY REDUCTION
14.  The living  standards of
Uganda's  poor  substantially
increased   during  the   high          Figure 3. Poverty in Uganda, 1992-2000
economic growth period of the
1990s. Since 1992, Government
has  been  monitoring  living      so
standards    through    annual     70
household surveys.   A  colla-     50
borative analysis of the survey    40
results  by  IDA   and  the        30
Government  of  Uganda,  as        20
reported in the PRSP progress      10
report, confirms a clear and        0
impressive decline in  poverty        national  rurl urban  cental  western  eastern  norhern
(based on the headcount index) of                 9397193 C99/
38  percent  in  eight  years.
Average real household income
has risen by 51 percent from 1992/93 to 1999/00. There appears to have been little change in
income distribution within urban and rural areas. The slight worsening of distribution towards
the end of the decade, as measured by the gini coefficient, suggests widening of the rural-urban
gap. Poverty continues to be regionally concentrated, with the North and the East having the
largest proportions of poor populations. Between 1997 and 2000, the East has experienced a
sharp fall in the incidence of poverty, but poverty in the North has risen by 8 percent, leaving two
thirds of its population below the poverty line.
15.  The reductions in rural poverty experienced during the 1990s appear to have been broad-
based and to have benefited most groups. Farmers who grow cash crops benefited the most: the
incidence of poverty in this group fell from 63 to 34 percent between 1992/93 and 1999/00. The
reduction in poverty can be traced to two factors. First, liberalization of coffee has had a
fundamental impact on small-holder coffee farmers who have benefited directly from the removal
of market controls and the emergence of a dynamic group of private traders.  Second,
international coffee prices soared in the mid-I 990s. The resulting increase in the returns to coffee
farmers has led to a significant increase in coffee production and a large number of small-holder
producers moving out of poverty.
16.  Despite significant progress, 35 percent of the population still live below the poverty line,
and the average per capita income in Uganda is only now approaching the level achieved in 1970.
Significant regional disparities in poverty exist and the earlier positive trend is reversed in the
North. This poses a major challenge to public policy.
17.  To better understand what poverty means in Uganda, Government has supplemented
household surveys with the Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP) over the
past three years. The participatory work demonstrates that, in addition to income poverty, non-
economic dimensions to poverty also need to be addressed. Specifically, the poor in Uganda are
concerned with the lack of access to basic services (health care, education, safe water and
sanitation), land, and production inputs. Further, they are particularly concerned about the lack of
security (in terms of war, rebel activity, cattle raiding, and theft) and corruption. The clear
message of the poor is that corruption not only increases the cost of doing business, but also
constrains the access to public services.
5



C. PROGRESS IN SOCIAL AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
18.  Despite the macroeconomic success, dramatic fall in consumption poverty, and significant
increases in government resources devoted to social services, progress in social and human
development in Uganda has been relatively modest. Although most education and health
indicators have improved in the past decade, almost all Uganda's social indicators, except
primary school enrollment rates, remain worse than average for the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa.
19.  Education. Since the universal primary education (UPE) initiative was launched in 1997,
the number of children enrolled in primary schools has been increasing. From a reported 3.1
million children in school in 1996, numbers have increased to 6.1 million children in 2000, with a
gross enrollment rate estimated at 133 percent. The policy has been a success in terms of
providing primary education throughout the country and reaching the poorest groups. Further,
there is almost no difference between boys' and girls' enrollment.
20.  In the past, public expenditure tracking surveys indicated that a relatively small portion of
non-wage funding reached schools, but this situation has dramatically improved in recent years.
Budgeted funds reaching schools have increased from 20 percent in 1995 to over 90 percent in
2000. This was a result of, among other things, Government using media and notice boards at
schools to promote transparency and local accountability. However, as the PRSP and the PRSP
progress report have made clear, Government recognizes that the quality of education remains an
acute problem, as inputs have not kept pace with the growth in enrollment. Reform in the tertiary
education sector, including new private universities and privately sponsored students, has led to
increased enrollment and dramatically increased resource mobilization, and helped re-establish
Makerere University as a leading institution in the region.
21.  Health. According to the demographic and health survey (DHS) conducted in 1995, the
following changes were observed between 1988 and 1995: infant mortality declined from
122/1,000 to 97/1,000; under-five mortality declined from 203/1,000 to 147/1,000, and maternal
mortality declined from 550/100,000 live births to 506/100,000.4 Although Uganda has made
significant progress in improving health services, the health status of its people is still very low
and compares unfavorably with the neighboring countries. The leading causes of morbidity and
mortality are preventable, largely communicable diseases, with women and1 children bearing a
disproportionate amount of the burden of ill-health. According to the burden of disease study
carried out in 1995, over 75 percent of premature deaths are attributable to 10 diseases, including
perinatal and maternal-related conditions, malaria, respiratory infections, HIV/AIDS, and
diarrhea. Significant variations exist between regions, with the North lagging behind the other
regions. Morbidity seems to have increased sharply between 1992 and 1997, but the most recent
household survey in 2000 shows an improvement in health status compared to 1997. The demand
for health services seems to have increased, although largely for the private sector services.
22. HIVIAIDS. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has reduced life expectancy in Uganda from 48
years in the mid-1980s to 42 years presently. Uganda's aggressive response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic has, however, resulted in Uganda being one of the first countries in Africa where
national HIV prevalence is declining. At the end of 1999, HIV prevalence in the adult population
(age 15-49) was 8.3 percent; this proportion was as high as 15 percent in 1993. The largest
decline is in the HIV prevalence among young people (age 15-19), which dropped from 32
percent in 1992 to 10 percent in 1998. Uganda has dropped from number cne in the world for
HIV infection to number 14. This dramatic reduction in HIV prevalence reflects the impact of
4A new demographic and health survey is currently being implemented.
6



government policy and its commitment to fight the pandemic. Nevertheless, the number of
people infected with H1V/AIDS is high (about 800,000) and the number of H1V/AlDS orphans is
estimated at a staggering 1.1 million.
23.  Gender. Gender disparities in participation in policy-making and in access to services
have decreased. Government has implemented a far-reaching affirmative action program to
promote women's political participation. National and local elective offices have been reserved
for women, and the number of women holding seats in Parliament has risen. The UPE initiative
has corrected the gender disparities in primary school enrollment. Many gender inequalities,
however, remain. Subsistence farmers, who constitute the largest group of the poor in Uganda,
are predominantly women and women provide 75 percent of total agricultural labor. Even though
the farmer in Uganda is typically a woman, the current legal framework constrains women's
access to land: when the husband dies, the wife often loses the rights to the land.
m. UGANDA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND AREAS FOR
WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A. POVERTY ERADICATION ACTION PLAN (PEAP)/
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER (PRSP)
24. Government strategy for economic transformation is spelled out in the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP). The PEAP is a home-grown medium-term development plan to guide
government policy and the development of detailed sector and district plans. The initial PEAP,
which was a result of an 18-month long participatory process involving all key stakeholders, was
prepared in 1997. Its first revision was finalized in 2000, and hereafter Government intends to
revise the PEAP every three years.5 In the years the PEAP is not revised, Government will
prepare a Poverty Status Report that documents the progress in the implementation of the PEAP.
Government is currently finalizing a Poverty Status Report as well as a Volume Im of the PEAP
which will lay out the partnership principles for Government and donors.6
25.  The overarching goal of the PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the
incidence of poverty in Uganda (based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10
percent or less by the year 2017. The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving
universal access to primary education, primary health care, safe drinking water, guaranteeing
political freedom and human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at
the poor.
26.  Because the PEAP's objectives are fully consistent with those of the PRSP process, a
summary of the revised PEAP was used as a basis for the Uganda PRSP presented to the Boards
of the World Bank and IMF in May 2000. The first PRSP progress report is presented to the
Bank's Board jointly with the proposed PRSC. The PRSP progress report is a sunmmary of the
Poverty Status Report. According to the PRSP analysis, Government can reduce poverty to 10
percent by 2017 if real GDP grows at 7 percent per annum and growth is equally distributed.
Although 7 percent real GDP growth per annum is difficult, it is attainable, provided decisive
action is taken to implement the medium term competitiveness strategy and the plan for
modernization of agriculture, and to improve basic service delivery.
5The PEAP will be next revised in 2002/03.
6Volume I of the PEAP is the strategy and action plan and Volume II contains the Public Investment Plan.
7



27.  Government's strategy for economic transformation and poverty eradication are based on
four pillars:
* A framework for economic growth and transformation;
* Ensuring good governance and security;
*  Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
*  Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor.
B. POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC)
28.  The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is the first in a series of three single-tranche
programmatic structural adjustment credits to support the implementation of the PEAP/PRSP. It
contains clear performance benchmarks, policy measures, and outcome indicators. The series of
PRSCs is intended to cover one PEAP/PRSP cycle and become synchronized with Government's
budget cycle. The PRSC provides an anchor for the Bank Group's overall support for Uganda's
policy and institutional reform and public expenditure priorities.
29.  Each individual PRSC in the series is provided based on the up-front completion of a set of
prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress with the country's social and structural reform
agenda in support of its poverty reduction strategy. The provision of each PRSC also depends on
satisfactory overall progress against the agreed social and structural benchmarks and CAS
triggers, based on a review by the staff, and on continued satisfactory macroeconomic
performance. The prior actions of the first PRSC were agreed up-front. Each subsequent PRSC
will build on the previous ones; their prior actions are formulated and agreed upon drawing on the
progress towards benchmarks laid out at the outset as a part of the rolling medium-term program
framework.
30.  The PRSC supports policy measures detailed in the PEAP/PRSP in a selective manner.
The participatory process used to develop the PEAP/PRSP considerably broadened the country's
ownership of the reforms and brought in a large number of stakeholders who will support their
implementation. Therefore, the proposed PRSC does not reflect all of the policy measures in the
PEAP/PRSP, but provides support to areas where IDA has a comparative advantage and towards
policy and institutional reform measures with the highest poverty impact.
31.  The PRSC reform program focuses on improving public service (lelivery because poor
public sector performance is presently one of the main constraints to economic development and
poverty reduction. The reform program supported by the PRSC is carefuilly sequenced. First,
PRSC-I will support reforms in health, education, and water and sanitation sectors, which forms
the fourth pillar of Government's PEAP/PRSP (that aims to raise the quality of life of the poor).
Education, water and sanitation are also the main beneficiaries of the enhanced HIPC debt relief.
PRSC-II and PRSC-III are expected to give increasing attention to rural and private sector
development and post-primary education and training in support of the third PEAP/PRSP pillar
(that aims at directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes).  A rural
development component is not included in PRSC-I because Government is still in the process of
making its rural strategy operational, that is, developing structures and capacities at local levels,
and piloting new approaches. Only when this process is completed can. support through the
PRSC be effective. Meanwhile, IDA continues to support agricultural research and extension
services through investment projects. Section IV discusses in more detail how the PRSC
complements the existing and future investment projects contained in the Uganda CAS.
8



32.  The preparation of the PRSC and the joint Government-donor education and health sector
reviews demonstrate clearly that cross-cutting public sector issues affect all basic services and
effectiveness of their delivery. These include pay policies, public service management, public
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and the effect of corruption on
the implementation of public expenditure programs. This is why PRSC-I, II, and Em all support
cross-cutting public-sector reforms listed under the first and second PEAP/PRSP pillars. The
goal is to create an enabling environment for economic growth and structural transformation and
improve governance. Any real progress toward addressing these problems and improving service
delivery will depend on Government's efforts to promote collaboration and coordination among
ministries and agencies and between the center and local governments.
33.  The specific reforms supported by the PRSC under each PEAP/PRSP pillar will be
discussed next. Table I summarizes the objectives, reform areas, lead government counterparts
and priorities in each area.
C. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR I: FRAMEWORK FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH AND TRANSFORMATION
34.  Continued high economic growth in Uganda requires a framework within which the private
sector can expand and services can be delivered. Under this pillar, Government intends to
address three key elements of the framework: (i) macroeconomic stability, without which
economic growth will not be sustainable; (ii) removal of constraints on private sector
competitiveness as guided by Government's Medium-Term Competitive Strategy for the Private
Sector (2000-2004), and (iii) equitable and efficient collection and use of public resources.
35.  Of these elements, PRSC-I focuses on removing barriers to the public sector's capacity to
make equitable and effective use of public resources. Specifically, PRSC-I will support reforms
to strengthen public expenditure and budgetary management. This is the critical first step in
improving the efficiency of public service delivery. Other elements of the enabling framework,
such as macroeconomic stability and reforms related to the collection of domestic revenue will
continue to be covered under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). Actions
related to private sector competitiveness are supported under several infrastructure, deregulation,
and financial sector projects funded by IDA and other donors. However, since domestic revenue
provides an important context for programmatic lending, key revenue issues are briefly reviewed
in Box 1.
9



Table 1: Uganda's Service Delivery Reform supported by PRSC
PEAP/PRSP
PiDlar          Objectives        Reform Areas        Lead Counterparts    Priorities
Framework for   Efficient and    * Allocations and    * Ministry of Finance,  * Align public expenditures
economic        equitable use of    actual expenditure    Planning and       with PEAP/PRSP priorities.
growth and      public resources                       Economic            * Include donor-financed
transformation                                         Development           projects and wage bill in
*Ministry of Public     MTEF.
* Inter-governmental   Service            * Streamnline inter-govemmental
transfers        * Ministry of Local     fiscal transfers.
Government
* Results-orientation  . Selected Line    * Incorporate output and/or
Selectedries         outcome measures into sector
Ministries            expenditure programs.
Ensuring good    Improving       * Public service    * Ministry of Public    * Agree on a public sector pay
govemance and   management         management and      Service               strategy.
security        systems and        pay               * Ministry of Finance,  * Improve payroll management
practices in the                      Planning and           at the central and district level.
public sector                         Economic             * Enhance effectiveness of the
Development           public service reform
program.
Public procurement * Ministry of Finance,  * Update legal and regulatory
Planning and          framework.
Economic            * Establish a national regulatory
Development           body, contract committees and
i Ministry of Local     procurement units.
Govemment           * Harmonize central and local
government regulations.
Improve efficiency of
National Medical Stores.
e Financial        * Ministry of Finance,  * Update legal and regulatory
management         Planning and          framework.
Economic            * Establish a coordination
Development           mechanism for reforms.
* Office of the Auditor  * Improve accounting and audit
General               systems and practices at
* Ministry of Local     central and district level.
Govemment           * Implement regular expenditure
tracking surveys.
* Monitoring and    * Prime Minister's    . Delineate responsibilities for
evaluation (M&E)    Office                M&E and harmonize reporting
* Office of the         requirements.
President             Approve national poverty
* Ministry of Finance,    monitoring strategy.
Planning and        a Establish service delivery
Economic              standards.
Development
Transparency,    * Transparency     * Ministry of         4 Improve access to govemment
participation and                     Information           information.
anti-corruption                     * Directorate of Ethics  a Use mandatory public notices
and Integrity         on fiscal transfers.
* Ministry of Finance,
Planning and
Economic
Development
10



PEAPIPRSP
Pillar          Objectives        Reform Areas        Lead Counterparts    Priorities
* Civil society   * Prime Minister's    * Adopt NGO policy and code
participation     Office                 of conduct.
* Ministry of Intetnal   * Harmonize participatory
Affairs               approaches.
* Ministry of Local
Government
* Detection,      * Inspector General of  * Leadership Code, IGG Bill,
investigation and    Government (IGG)   and open access to leaders'
prosecution     * Directorate of Ethics    asset declarations.
and Integrity      * Monitor corruption on a
regular basis.
* Legal and judicial * Ministry of Justice    * Adopt sector-wide approach
reform            and Constitutional     for justice, law and order
Affairs               agencies.
* Implement criminal and
commercial justice reforms.
Directly        Improving quality  * Primary education * Ministry of Education * Reduce pupil-teacher ratio by
increasing the  of education                           and Sports            recruitment of new teachers
quality of life of                * Cost-efficiency   * Ministry of Public   and measures to increase cost-
the poor                                               Service               efficiency.
* Ministry of Finance,  * Reduce pupil-textbook ratio.
Planning and        * Reduce pupil-classroom ratio.
Economic
Development
Improving quality  * Health care    * Ministry of Health    * Develop a health care
of health care     financing                                financing strategy.
a Procurement     * Ministry of Finance,  * Implement interim
capacity          Planning and          procurement arrangements.
Economic            * Build procurement capacity
Development           and structures in the sector.
- Human resources                       * Develop a human resource
policy for the sector, including
training.
- Health                                * Adopt procedures for prior
infrastructure                           approval of new facilities,
including community ones.
Improve access to  * Access to rural   * Ministry of Water,   * Initiate WSS sector-wide
and equity in      water supply and    Lands and            program.
water and          sanitation (WSS)    Environment        * Strengthen WSS planning and
sanitation                          * Ministry of Local     management capacity in
Government            districts.
* Ministry of Finance,  * Develop nation-wide WSS
Planning and          maintenance strategy and
* Access to WSS in   Economic             hygiene promotion strategy.
small towns       Development         * Develop a new management
strategy for small towns.
* Access to urban   * National Water and   * Resolve GOU debt to NWSC
WSS               Sewerage             * Simplify connection policy.
Corporation         * Privatize NWSC.
11



Box 1: Public Revenue
At 10.6 percent of GDP (in 1999/00) domestic revenue is low in Uganda. This is low by the standards of
Uganda's earlier performance and by the standards of many other Sub-Saharan African countries. It is
also significantly lower than 20 percent of GDP that governments in poor countries can in general be
expected to raise in taxes. However, it does represent a substantial recovery from the very low levels
associated with earlier dysfunctional governments. In the early 1990s, following the establishment of the
Uganda Revenue Authority (URA), the share of revenue in GDP grew by about one percentage point per
annum. This recovery has stalled since 1996. The low revenue share leaves a large gap for financing. In
recent years, highly concessional aid has been available to fill in the gap. However, if the gap appears to
be stationary, donors' perception about Uganda as a successful reformer may eventually change.
Government recognizes that efforts to improve revenue performance-even if slowly-cannot be delayed.
Recent cross-country analyses of tax revenue performance suggests that Uganda should be capable of
generating substantially higher revenues.
Increasing tax rates is, however, unlikely to yield higher revenues. As a result of several tax reforms,
including introduction of the value-added tax (VAT) and income tax reform, Uganda's tax rates are
broadly in line with its neighboring countries and with best practice. It would be undesirable for business
confidence for the tax rates to be increased. Also, by and large tax reforms have been pro-poor.
The current low level of revenue effort reflects deficiencies in tax administration, the culture of non-
compliance and corruption, inherited from the 1970s and early-1980s. For example, the problem with
VAT collections is neither that the threshold for firns liable for the tax is too hilgh nor that the tax rate is
too low, but that there are serious deficiencies in filing, compliance and collections for the vast majority
of firmns. Improvements in revenue performance are thus likely to emanate from reforms in these areas.
Rectifying the current situation will require fundamental changes in tax administration. Government
recognizes that a successful revenue effort will also require a change in the current perception of taxes as
onerous, uneven, and arbitrary. To the extent that these perceptions are objective, further reform in tax
design and administration would serve to change it. To the extent that it is subjective, it will be necessary
to improve public information to help correct it. With assistance from the IMF and DFID, Government is
currently implementing a tax administration reform that focuses on modernization of the URA,
imnprovements in tax collection, and reduction in smuggling.
Efficient and Equitable Use of Public Resources
36.  Issues. There has been a steady evolution in the Government of Uganda's approach to
budgetary management in the 1990s. The MTEF was first introduced in 1992/93 at the time of
fiscal crisis. The primary objective was to keep aggregate spending consistent with the finance
available ex ante. The accompanying cashflow mechanism was designed to hold aggregate
spending to what can actually be financed ex post in the event of revenue shortfall or loss of
expenditure control within the fiscal year. VWhile some compositional issues were addressed by
protecting non-wage priority spending, the design of sectoral expenditure allocations was first
addressed in the 1995/96 MTEF. More recently, the PEAP/PRSP has provided a coherent and
transparent framework within which the claims of various sectors can be balanced against each
other. The Poverty Action Fund (PAF) was set up as a vehicle within the MTEF and the
consolidated fund for targeting earmarked funds into the poverty-related activities in the recurrent
and capital budgets, in line with the PEAP/PRSP. Five percent of PAF funds are used for
monitoring and evaluation.
12



37.  These instruments have performed fairly well in terms of correctly forecasting resources,
maintaining aggregate spending, and delivering the desired composition of spending. First, the
relation between the revenue forecast and outtum has been quite close in the 1990s. The two
major exceptions have been 1996/97 and 1999/00 when the revenue outturn was well below the
forecast. Forecasting aid flows could be expected to be relatively accurate, given Uganda's long
track record of reform and good relations with donors. However, instability and unpredictability
have still been problems both in program aid and project financing. The proposed PRSC and the
envisioned increase in programmatic support by several other donors are expected to improve
predictability of aid flows.
38.  Second, the MTEF and cashflow system have delivered exceptionally well in terms of
macroeconomic budgetary management and aggregate expenditure control, resulting in single-
digit inflation rates since 1992. Third, it has also been possible for Governmnent to deliver major
shifts in expenditure towards social sectors and economic infrastructure. In particular, there has
been a substantial and sustained increase in the share going to education and roads. The share of
the PAF in total spending rose rapidly from 17 percent in 1997/98 to 24 percent in 1999/00, and
finally to 31 percent in 2000/01. This represents a major and rapid switch in spending pattems.
Despite successful re-allocation of spending over time, the actual annual composition of spending
has to some extent deviated from the annual budgets. This has been largely due to loss of
expenditure control in some ministries within the fiscal year. In 1999/00, budget management
seems to have achieved a far closer correspondence between sector budgets and outturns than in
previous years, despite within-year expenditure cuts due to revenue shortfall. Taken together, this
set of budgetary instruments offers an appealing prospect for programmatic donor support: that
fiscal control can be maintained, that policy priorities can be agreed in a transparent process, and
that budgetary finance can be aligned to correspond to these priorities.
39.  While the aggregate spending control and strategic allocations are obvious strengths of
fiscal management in Uganda, the budget is not yet comprehensive. In particular, donor-funded
projects are not presently incorporated in the expenditure ceilings. Staffing plans and the wage
bill are also treated separately and are not part of the sector expenditure programs in the MTEF.
However, the biggest weaknesses are at the level of actual expenditure and service delivery.
Govemment's institutional reform program contained in the PEAP/PRSP and the PRSP progress
report, and supported by the proposed Credit, therefore, focuses primarily on improving public
service delivery and accountability through both cross-cutting and sector-level reforms.
40.  Ongoing decentralization aims at improving service delivery but it also poses a challenge
for it, given the weak capacity at the district and sub-county levels. In particular, there is a
tension between the need to ensure monitoring, accountability and control in the local use of
centrally provided funds, and the desire to increase local autonomy. Fiscal transfers to local
governments have risen in recent years, from 14 percent in 1994/95 to a projected 34 percent in
2002/03. However, reflecting the tension, the transfers are heavily dependent on conditional
grants (80-90 percent of all grants) which limits the ability of districts to budget for local needs
and weakens local accountability and ownership. Conditional grants also place burdensome
reporting requirements on local governments.   To reap the presumed benefits from
decentralization, there is a need to harmonize the fiscal transfer mechanisms. Government has
recently completed a study on rationalization of conditional grants which is expected to lead to
considerable changes in fiscal transfers over time.
41.  Currently, public service delivery is predominantly focused on inputs and implementation
processes rather than end-results of policies, programs, and projects. Major problems include
13



insufficient clarity and consistency of sector outcome and output indicators and targets, service
standards, and lack of systematic feedback from public service users.
42.  Reform strategy. Key areas for enhancing efficient and equitable use of public resources
include the following:
* Agree with stakeholders, including IDA, annually on strategic expenditure allocations
in the MTEF and execute budgets consistent with agreed allocations.
* Integrate expenditure ceilings for wage bill and donor-financed projects in the sector
expenditure programs in the MTEF.
* Publish budget performance reports.
* Harmonize modalities for conditional grants and other inter-governmental transfers.
* Enhance results-orientation of sector expenditure programs.
43.  Expected results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve the
following:
* An increase in the directly poverty reducing expenditures as a share of total
allocations and actual expenditures from 24 percent in 1999/2000 to about 33 percent
in 2002/03.
* A comprehensive MTEF, incorporating donor projects and wage bill.
* Budget execution closer to the approved appropriations.
* Streamlined inter-govemmental fiscal transfers, a reduction in administrative costs,
and increased ownership of public expenditure programs at the local level.
* Sector plans and expenditure programs are output/outcome-oriented.
44. PRSC-I Prior Actions. To reach these objectives, Uganda has completed the first round of
reforms, including agreement with IDA on the MTEF for 2000/01 - 2002/03 and execution of the
2000/01 budget consistent with agreed allocations through the first two quarters; and introduction
of monitoring of results and output targets for roads, education, health and water and sanitation
sectors in the 2000/01-2002/03 MTEF and Budget Framework Paper (BFP).
D. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR II: ENSURING GOOD GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY
45.  Good govemance is essential for effective public service delivery, since if public
management fails, so will delivery. The second PEAP/PRSP pillar addresses this concem.
Government actions detailed under the pillar focus on improving public service delivery in the
context of decentralization; reducing corruption; ensuring law and order and security; and
providing disaster management. The PRSC-I will provide support to these actions in a selective
manner.
46.  To improve service delivery on the ground, Govemment has decentralized the delivery of
health, education, water and agricultural extension services to local governments. The key
challenge facing this effort is improving the capacities of local governments for effective
planning, management, and implementation of related policies and programs. Govemment plans
to address these concems by public service, procurement, and financial management reforms, by
14



improving monitoring and evaluation and by strengthening bottom-up accountability and anti-
corruption measures.
Improving Management Systems and Practices in the Public Sector
47.  Issues. The cross-cutting public sector reforms that PRSC-I will support include public
service management, public procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation.
Government has been pursuing public service pay reform for a number of years. It has increased
salaries and monetized non-salary benefits and consolidated these with most other allowances
into a transparent basic salary structure. In the past few years, however, these gains have been
reversed to some degree. Allowances and other selective incentives outside the formal salary
structure have crept back, and the majority of professional staff has had no significant real
increase in salary for a couple of years. Further, a recent study indicates that the salary levels in
Government for professionals remain very low compared to those prevailing in the private sector.
Since a prerequisite for effective public service delivery is that managers are skilled, committed
and motivated professionals, it is important for Government to put in place a pay regime which is
sufficient to recruit, retain and motivate civil servants.
48.  Human resource management in frontline service delivery, particularly in the health,
education and water and sanitation sectors is constrained by a shortage of qualified applicants, the
top-down establishment control, weak district-level personnel functions, inefficient payroll
management, and inadequate systems for evaluating and disciplining staff. All these weaknesses
adversely affect the ability of Government to deliver the services. The most pressing concern is
the substantial delay in getting new staff onto Government payroll once they are appointed; the
surveys carried out on human resource management at the district level in 2000 indicate that the
delays in primary schools vary between 6 and 16 months and in health facilities between 3 and 7
months.
49.  As highlighted by the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), prepared by IDA
in collaboration with Government, the public procurement system presents a major risk and
constitutes a major constraint to effective service delivery. The legal and regulatory framework
governing procurement is diffused and poorly enforced. Procurement is not properly planned and
there is an acute shortage of qualified procurement staff, mainly due to many years of relegation
of the procurement function (which has largely been fulfilled by donors). The risk is particularly
pronounced at the district level, where political interference and conflict of interest are
widespread.
50.  The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), carried out by IDA in
collaboration with Government, indicates that inadequate financial accounting and auditing
systems both at the center and in the districts pose a major fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a
relatively good budgeting system, accounting for public expenditure using the present manual
system is weak, largely because of disregard for timely and regular recording of transactions,
side-stepping of controls, and lack of financial discipline. Similarly, findings of audit reports are
not regularly followed up, and public accounts contain a number of material non-reconciled
balances. There is an acute shortage of qualified accountants in the public sector, given that
current pay levels are only about 20-30 percent of those in the private sector. Reforms in
financial management are urgent and satisfactory progress in their implementation needs to
precede the approval of PRSC-II that will increasingly involve district and sub-county
governments.
15



51.  Finally, the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) assessment carried out by the Operations
Evaluation Department of the Bank in collaboration with Government, shows that service
delivery standards are not clear and that M&E activities and reporting requirements are
uncoordinated and often place a major burden on weak local governments.
52.  Reform strategy. Govemment is currently preparing a new pay strategy consistent with
the MTEF and improved service delivery. An inter-ministerial task force, led by the Ministry of
Public Service, has been set up to tackle the problems of payroll management. Similarly,
Government has recently initiated a procurement reform to address inefficiency and corruption.
The ongoing reform program in the area of financial management has made slow progress during
the past decade but is expected to pick up speed with the recent approval of the IDA-funded
Second Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMPII) and the Local Government
Development Project (LGDP). Under the PRSC, key areas for improving management systems
and practices in the public sector include the following:
* Agree on, publish, and implement a govermment pay reform strategy that is consistent
with the MTEF and improved service delivery, and adjust salaries accordingly.
* Reduce backlogs and expedite accessing Govemment payroll.
* Revitalize the public service reform program.
. Implement public procurement reform, including updating the legal and regulatory
framework and establishing new organizational structures for procurement.
* Harmonize the procurement regulations between the central and local govemment.
e Improve efficiency of National Medical Stores.
* Establish a coordination mechanism for effective implementation of financial
management reforms.
IUpdate the legal and institutional framework for financial management.
* Improve accounting and auditing systems at the center and districts, including interim
measures.
= Implement regular expenditure tracking surveys in basic services.
* Delineate responsibilities for M&E and harmonize reporting requirements placed on
districts.
* Approve the National Poverty Monitoring Strategy.
53. Expected results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve the
following:
* Agreed and published public sector pay strategy and salary adjustments consistent
with it for Govemment to better recruit, motivate and retain skilled staff.
* New staff entered on Govemment payroll in 30 days.
* The next phase of public service reform program reflects the objective of improved
service delivery.
* New public procurement legislation and arrangements in place and fully operational at
the center and substantial progress in districts to produce better value for money.
16



* Improved availability and cost-efficiency of medical supplies.
* Improved flow of funds to frontline service delivery.
* Updated legislation and regulatory environment for financial management.
* More timely and reliable accounts and audits and reduced fiduciary risk at the central
and local government level.
* A common M&E system operational in basic service sectors linked to performance.
* Clear interim progress indicators towards PEAP/PRSP goals.
54. PRSC-I Prior Actions. To attain these objectives, Uganda has completed the first round of
reforms, including an agreement between Ministries of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development and Public Service on the objectives and principles of a pay reform strategy
consistent with the MTEF and improved service delivery; issuance of new procurement
regulations for ministries, departments, and agencies; and establishment of a coordination
mechanism for guiding and monitoring of financial management reform.
Transparency, Participation, and Anti-Corruption
55.  Issues. Experience in primary education in Uganda has demonstrated that access to public
information can empower citizens to demand greater accountability. At present access to
information is limited. Similarly, transparency and accountability of both government and NGO
service delivery entities is limited, especially at the district level. Community participation and
the use of participatory approaches and methods is also ad hoc.
56.  Corruption in Uganda negatively affects private sector development by raising the cost of
doing business and thereby growth. A recent survey of Ugandan firms indicates that firms pay
significant bribes. Also, the analysis indicates that the adverse impact of bribery on firms'
investment and growth is more than three times as high as that of business taxation. A large
survey of households carried out in 1998 reveals that bribery is most common in judiciary and the
police followed by health services, with two-thirds of users paying a bribe to the workers in the
judiciary services. Since corruption, by raising the cost of services, also constrains the access of
the poor to public services, anti-corruption measures are part of the public service delivery reform
agenda that the PRSC will support.
57.  Reform strategy. Govemment intends to increase transparency by improving access to
public information, including information on the annual budget process and fiscal transfers to
local governments. Likewise, Government has initiated a process to harmonize participatory
approaches to ensure that district and sector plans reflect community perspectives and priorities.
58. Government Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption and Build Ethics and
Integrity in Public Office 2000-2002 was presented to the donor community at the March 2000
Consultative Group meeting and officially launched by the President in July 2000. Some of the
proposed actions are expected to address the pervasive corruption plaguing public service
delivery by diminishing opportunities for misconduct, while others will curtail it through
strengthening of investigation and prosecution of malfeasance. While Government's anti-
corruption strategy is comprehensive, the PRSC will focus on those actions promising the greatest
reduction in corraption and improvement in service delivery. In collaboration with the anti-
corruption agencies, such as the Inspector General of Government, the Directorate of Ethics and
17



Integrity, the Auditor General, the Attorney General, and representatives of civil society and the
business community, a smaller number of actions were identified as priolities.
59.  Under the PRSC key areas of reform are:
* Improve citizens' access to public information, including tabling Access to
Government Information Bill in Parliament.
* Prepare and implement a communication strategy for the budget process and fiscal
policy.
* Place public notices on conditional and other grants at service delivery points.
* Agree on NGO policy and code of conduct and harmonize the use of participatory
approaches.
* Adopt a leadership code and open access to leaders' asset declarations.
* Monitor corruption on a regular basis through surveys.
* Adopt a sector-wide approach for justice, law  and order agencies to increase
efficiency.
* Implement criminal and commercial justice reforms.
60.  It is important to note that there are also measures outside the framework of the anti-
corruption strategy, which have indirect effects on Uganda's ability to control corruption. The
reform of the public service pay strategy is one of them. For Government to be able to recruit and
retain the technical and professional staff needed to operate its financial control systems, the issue
of inadequate pay needs to be addressed. A second measure is procurement reform, notably the
creation of a strong and transparent regulatory regime to govern public procurement.
61.  Expected results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve the
following:
* Improved access to public infornation to reduce opportunitieis for corruption.
* Improved public awareness of the budget and fiscal policies.
* Increased availability of public information on fiscal transfers at local levels.
* NGO policy and code of conduct mutually agreed between Government and the
NGO community to create a better operational environment for Government-NGO
partnerships and self-monitoring by NGOs.
*  Harmonized framework for community participation.
* Reduced opportunities for corruption and more effective f'ollow-up of corruption
cases.
* Regular and cost-efficient monitoring of corruption.
* Increased collaboration among justice, law, and order agencies; more effective
detection, investigation, and prosecution of corruption cases; and higher public
awareness.
18



* A more effective commercial court and a reduction in criminal and commercial case
backlog.
62.  PRSC-I Prior Actions. To achieve these objectives, Uganda has completed the first round
of reforms, including gazetting and tabling the Leadership Code 2000 Bill and the Inspectorate of
Government 2000 Bill in Parliament.
E. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR III: DIRECTLY INCREASING THE ABILITY OF THE
POOR TO RAISE THEIR INCOMES
63. As most Ugandans live in rural areas and earn their living from agriculture, increasing
agricultural growth rates, diversifying agricultural production and expanding non-farm
employment are essential for poverty reduction. This pillar therefore focuses on actions to
promote rural development.  As detailed in the PEAP/PRSP, Government's Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) provides the strategic and operational framework for
environmentally sustainable rural development and agricultural transformation from subsistence
to commercial agriculture. Although it does not provide a detailed plan of action, it does describe
the types of interventions required to promote rural development, define the responsibilities of the
public sector, private sector, and civil society in this effort and outline participatory processes
through which interventions will be designed. The PMA aims to increase incomes and improve
the quality of life of food crop producers that are mostly women and form the largest group of the
poor as well as ensure food security and create gainful employment. It identifies the following
core areas for public action in agriculture and rural development: research and technology,
advisory services, education for agriculture, providing a framework for rural finance, access to
markets, sustainable natural resource utilization and management, and strengthening of land
rights and land administration.
64. Given that Government has not yet completed its ongoing effort to make the PMA fully
operational, PRSC-I does not include actions and outputs under the third PEAP/PRSP pillar.
However, these will be included in PRSC-II and PRSC-III for which preparatory work has been
initiated. Meanwhile, IDA is financing an agricultural extension project in 2000/01 to continue
its support to this basic service.
F. PEAP/PRSP PILLAR IV: DIRECTLY INCREASING THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THE POOR
65.  As the UPPAP indicates, public services, in particular primary education, health care and
potable water and sanitation, have a direct impact on the quality of life of the poor.
Consequently, their delivery is a central element of the PEAP/PRSP. In the education sector,
Government plans to continue emphasizing the delivery of universal primary education (UPE) by
providing the necessary infrastructure, teachers and instructional materials, while also developing
a strategy for post-primary education. Government's national health policy and health sector
strategic plan (HSSP) will continue to guide the delivery of public health care. At the heart of
this plan is the minimum health package which includes the most important and most easily
treatable diseases. The plan also attempts to strengthen health care delivery and ensure equal
access to health services. The National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities (2000/1-
2005/6) will guide the work to control the spread of HIV/AIDS, to mitigate its effects on
households and communities, and to strengthen the national capacity to respond to it. According
to the results of UPPAP, one of the key development priorities of the poor is to increase access to
safe water. Responding to this need, the PEAP/PRSP sets as a goal sustainable provision of
19



accessible safe water and sanitation facilities to the entire rural population, and a large share of
the enhanced HIPC debt relief was allocated to water and sanitation in 2000/01.
Improving Quality of Education
66.  Issues. UPE remains Government's top priority. Public spending on education increased
from 19 percent of non-statutory recurrent expenditure in 1995/96 to 30 percent in 1999/00.
Spending on primary education is about two-thirds of this. These shares will be maintained in the
2001/02 - 2003/04 MTEF. Despite the substantial increase in spending, inputs have not kept pace
with the expansion in enrollment, and the quality of education appears to have declined. The
number of primary teachers is significantly less than available funding allows due to recruitment
difficulties, particularly in remote areas, and inefficient administrative procedures. The single
most critical non-wage input in primary education is textbooks. Currently books are in short
supply and even when available they are poorly utilized. Similarly, the stock of classrooms is
only one third of what is required for adequate quality of education. This is partly an issue of
funding and partly that of implementation. Unsurprisingly, this situation is affecting retention of
pupils and performance. While precise dropout rates are not available, they are likely to be high:
1.9 million children were enrolled in P1 in 1997, only 1.3 million were enrolled in P3 two years
later. Government estimates that the current net enrollment rate is 93 ,percent, implying that 7
percent of the age range (about 350,000 children) are out of school. At current repetition and
dropout rates, about one-quarter of all of those enrolling in P1 will complete P7 in 7 years
(compared to 30 percent before UPE).
67.  Further, performance on standardized tests appears to be declining. The same tests in
English and mathematics were given to P3 pupils in 1996 (prior to UPE) and 1999 (the first UPE
cohort). Results show that the number of pupils attaining satisfactory grades in English and
mathematics declined (in mathematics, from 48 percent satisfactory in 1996 to 31 percent in 1999
and on the English oral test from 92 percent satisfactory in 1996 to 56 percent in 1999). In a
recent participatory poverty assessment, parents also asserted that the quality of education is a
problem.
68.  Another major issue facing the Ugandan education system is the impact of UPE on the
demand for post-primary education. While almost 50 percent of those who complete primary
school currently continue in post-primary education, the number of children completing primary
school is expected to increase from 200,000 to 700,000 by 2004. Gove.rnment is aware of this
bulge and planning for it. However, resource constraints are likely to limit the number of places
available and the quality of education being provided.
69.  Reform strategy. Key areas for improving the quality of education under Uganda's reform
program include the following:
* Reduce pupil-teacher ratio by (i) implementing a national recruitment campaign for
primary school teachers (including retirees, new graduates from teacher training
colleges, and secondary school graduates), particularly for deployment in
disadvantaged districts, and (ii) implementing cost-efficiency measures that reduce
class size.
* Provide on-the-job training to unqualified teachers through the teacher development
and management system (TDMS).
* Reduce pupil-textbook ratio by improving distribution and utilization of textbooks.
20



* Reduce pupil-classroom ratio by increasing the efficiency of the primary school
construction program.
70.  Government-led semiannual education sector reviews involve all major stakeholders to
monitor progress, set targets, and maintain a focus on the quality of education. The stakeholders
include a large number of donors. Education sector reviews have recently agreed a set of
monitoring indicators and quantitative targets for education. These are fully consistent with the
PEAP/PRSP.
71.  Expected results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve the
following:
* A decline in the pupil-teacher ratio from 63:1 to 48:1.
* A decline in the pupil-textbook ratio from 6: 1 to 3:1.
*  Adecline in the pupil-classroom ratio 121:1 from to 92:1.
* An increase in net enrollment in the final grade of primary school (P7) from 14 to 20
percent.
72.  PRSC-I Prior Actions. To achieve these objectives, Uganda has completed the first stage
of education reforms, including satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed in the
education sector review of April 2000 and confirmed by the October 2000 review; and launching
a national recruitment campaign for 15,000 new teachers.
Improving Quality of Health Care
73.  Issues. Government has attempted to improve the health status of the population through
rebuilding the health service delivery system and expansion of preventive and public health
services.  However, many existing health facilities are underutilized because of poor quality of
service due to staff absenteeism, inadequate number of trained staff, lack of basic equipment,
drug shortages, including essential drugs, and poorly motivated staff who at times are not paid for
long periods of time, and who work under poor conditions. Another barrier to effective usage of
public facilities is lack of certainty about what will be charged for services provided. As
mentioned above, the national integrity survey in 1998 found that health service was the third
most corrupt, after judiciary and the police.
74.  Many facilities, especially those closest to the communities, do not provide the full range
of essential primary health services, such as matemity care or routine immunizations. The 1995
DHS found that only 38 percent of deliveries take place under supervision of a trained health
worker. Approximately 69 percent of health facilities, both government and non-government,
offer routine immunizations, but only 47 percent of children are fully immunized before their first
birthday. A number of surveys and studies carried out in 1998 attributed the decline in
immunization rates to a complex of factors, including non-payment of allowances to community
vaccinators and weak management of drugs and the cold chain. In 1999, it was reported that only
20 percent of public health facilities had an adequate supply of vaccines for routine
immunization.
7The national health accounts have recently been comnpleted for 1997/98. Health services accounted for
4.7 percent of GDP; the public sector contributed 20 percent of the financing, donors 43 percent, formal
insurance 3 percent, and households 34 percent.
21



75.  National household surveys report a sharp increase in illness between 1992/93 and 1997/98
and a slight fall thereafter. Also, the latest survey indicates that the proportion seeking medical
care has increased since 1997/98. However, there appears to have been little change in the use of
government health facilities. It is estimated that only about 23 percent of those who fell ill use
government health services, while approximately 46 percent use private or NGO services. The
quality of service in NGO and private facilities is reported to be higher than in Government units.
The surveys indicate that even the poor are more likely to use non-governmental and private
providers than government facilities. Another 31 percent of the population either self medicate or
seek no treatment when ill.
76.  It is obvious from these data that there is an urgent need to improve health service delivery.
Government's new health policy and the health sector strategic plan (HSSP) lay out the vision
and strategy for achieving a better service. To support implementation of the HSSP, Govermnent
has developed a sector-wide approach in partnership with donors, private-for-profit and private-
not-for-profit (PNFP) health providers, and non-governmental organizations. Semiannual joint
sector reviews are held to coordinate and maximize the use of resources in the sector as well as to
reduce the transaction costs of external assistance to Government. As many of the problems in
the health sector relate to cross-cutting issues (procurement, personnel management, financial
accountability, and corruption), the multi-sectoral approach under the PRSC is expected to be a
suitable instrument to help Government address them.
77.  Reform strategy. Key areas for improving the quality of health under the PRSC include
the following:
* Approve a health care financing strategy, including public financing of health care
provision by PNFP sector.
Implement procurement reforms, the national drug policy, and a strategic plan on
pharmaceuticals.
- Improve quality of health services through recruitment and deployment of
professional staff to health centers.
- Develop and implement human resource policy for the health sector, including
training of unqualified staff.
*   Develop and approve a national health infrastructure development and maintenance
plan.
*   Establish a mechanism for approval of new health facilities, including community
health centers.
78.  Government-led semiannual health sector reviews have been initiated and involve all major
stakeholders to monitor progress, set targets, and maintain a focus on the quality of health
services. The stakeholders include a large number of donors. The health sector reviews have
identified 20 key indicators, including baseline data, to monitor performance of the HSSP. These
are fully consistent with the PEAP/PRSP.
79.  Expected results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve the
following:
* Rationalization of financing of the health sector.
22



*  Capacity created to procure at least half of large ticket items in the procurement plan of
the Ministry of Health.
*  A decrease in stock-outs; 80 percent of health facilities experience no stock-outs in
basic drugs and medical supplies.
*  An increase in the share of health facilities with qualified staff from 40 to 60 percent.
* An increase in DPT3 vaccination coverage for infants from 41 to 65 percent.
* Rationalization of rehabilitation and new construction of health infrastructure.
80.  PRSC-I Prior Actions. To achieve these objectives, Uganda has completed the first stage
of health reforms, including implementing the undertakings agreed in the semiannual health
sector review in April 2000 and confirmed by the October 2000 review; and putting in place
interim procurement arrangements in the health sector in anticipation of the procurement reform.
Improving Access to and Equity in Water and Sanitation
81.  Despite significant investment during the last decade, the rural water supply and sanitation
(WSS) sector is characterized by limited and unequal access to safe WSS, an ineffective
utilization of facilities, and non-sustainable service. Until recently the Directorate of Water
Development (DWD) was responsible for developing the service mostly through donor-funded,
and largely independent projects. Under the reorganization being implemented, DWD will retain
the responsibility for policy formulation and regulation, while implementation of new projects for
providing the WSS service in rural areas is being devolved to the districts. However, at present
district planning and management capacity is limited.
82.  In urban areas recent large investments have not resulted in increased coverage.
Operations of the National Water and Sewage Corporation (NWSC) are inefficient, with
performance indicators below African utility standards, and the current tariff acts as a deterrent to
existing and potential new customers. While the development of piped water supplies in small
towns was initially based on an upgraded rural WSS approach, recent experience has shown that
they should rather be treated as simplified urban WSS.
83.  Reform Strategy. The strategy arising from the WSS sector reform process is to increase
access to and reliability, affordability, and sustainability of the provision of services.
Government has decided to develop a coherent sector-wide approach (SWAP) framework for the
WSS sector. This framework will be in line with the National Water Policy (1999). Sub-sector
strategies have been formulated for both rural and urban WSS services.
84.  In the rural WSS sector, the reform strategy includes the following:
*  Strengthen decentralized planning, project preparation, implementation and
management through local governments.
* Improve the capacity of central government institutions to facilitate and channel
technical assistance to local governments.
*  Develop capacity in demand-driven approach, based on community ownership and
management of WSS projects.
23



*  Increase the capacity for sustained delivery of goods and services by developing
and utilizing local private sector capacities in engineering, construction, spare parts
distribution and maintenance.
*  Develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation and communication.
85.  In urban WSS, the reform strategy includes the following:
*  Introduce efficient and commercialized  operations through private sector
participation, where the operations of WSS service in urban centers are delivered
by local or international private operators with a clear contractual relationship with
the owner of the WSS assets.
*  Retain the ownership of WSS assets in the public sector, while vesting the
management of these assets to autonomous institutions staffed by professional
WSS personnel.
*  Establish an independent regulatory system.
86.  Expected Results. By the end of the three-year PRSC period Uganda expects to achieve
the following:
e  Fully operational sector-wide program in WSS services.
e  In rural areas, an increase in access to safe water and sanitation from 50 to 55
percent for an average investment of about US$50 per capita, while the
functionality rate of WSS systems will be maintained at a minimum of 80 percent
through the formulation and operationalization of a nation-wide maintenance
strategy. The framework for SWAP will be operational in all districts.
*  In urban areas, an increase in access to safe water and sanitation from 50 to 65
percent for an average investment cost of US$150 per capita. WSS systems under
NWSC are placed under an asset holding authority, and its operations under
private sector management. Likewise, small towns systems are placed under WSS
authorities, and their operations under private sector management.
87.  PRSC-I Prior Actions. To achieve these objectives, Government has completed the first
stage of water supply and sanitation reforms, including half of the district:s setting up fully staffed
district water and sanitation teams (DWST) with assistance from DWD; and the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED) settling US:h 5 billion verified debt
owed by various government agencies to NWSC.
IV. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY
88.  A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda was presented to the Board, jointly
with IFC, on November 16, 2000 (Report 20886-UG). The next CAS will be prepared in
2003/04. The following section will briefly review the objectives of the current CAS.
A. THE WORLD BANK GROUP
89.  The Bank Group's strategy for fiscal years 2001-03 will be to support Uganda's economic
transformation and poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the PEAP/PRSP. To achieve this
24



objective, work to maintain macroeconomic stability will continue, but the focus of will
increasingly shift to the sector-level and to cross-cutting public sector management issues. In
particular, IDA will support reforms to improve public service delivery. As mentioned in the
introduction, the key challenge will be to replicate the excellent macroeconomic policy and
implementation record at the sector level to facilitate economic transformation and poverty
eradication.
90.  The PRSC will be the Bank Group's reduction key instrument in delivering its assistance
program. A shift to programmatic support is justified on four grounds: (i) the progress on
macroeconomic reform has lessened the need for traditional structural adjustment lending; (ii) the
proposed PRSC instrument's focus on sectoral policies provides an effective mechanism to
address constraints at the sector-level; (iii) the PRSC instrument provides a mechanism to focus
on cross-cutting reforms in public sector management, such as strengthening human resource
management, procurement, financial management, and fight against corruption, and (iv) the
instrument is valuable for coordinating donor support for a country-owned program. As the past
experience indicates, these issues could not be as effectively addressed by a series of traditional
investment projects. It is important to note, however, that in addition to the PRSC, IDA expects
to continue with self-standing projects for capacity building and infrastructure investments. Also,
during the transition phase, IDA recently proceeded with an HIV/AIDS project due to urgency of
the problem, and with an agricultural extension project to continue IDA assistance to this basic
service. In the future, however, these activities will be incorporated into the PRSC.
91.  The shift to the PRSC is also attractive in that it is consistent with the CDF approach and
directly links the PEAP/PRSP and Bank Group's assistance program in Uganda. The shift to the
PRSC approach is effectively underpinned by the broad economic and sector work carnied out on
Uganda since mid-1990s. This includes analysis of six consecutive household surveys, an
enterprise survey, and surveys to assess public service delivery and corruption. In addition, IDA
carries out a public expenditure review on an annual basis, and as part of the PRSC preparation, a
CFAA and CPAR were conducted. It is expected that by the end of the PRSC period substantial
progress towards achieving better public sector management and sector outcomes would have
been made.
B. COORDINATION WITH IMF
92. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) will continue concentrating on macroeconomic
issues in Uganda, focusing specifically on short- and medium-term macroeconomic stability and
incentives. As before, IDA will closely collaborate and coordinate activities with the IMF staff.
In particular, the staffs of the two institutions conduct joint PRSP missions and prepare joint
assessments of the PRSP on an annual basis.
93.  The commitment period of the current Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement extends until March 31, 2001. Government of Uganda has requested another PRGF
and the IMF is likely to proceed with a new one. The staffs of IDA and IMEF are coordinating the
contents of the PRSC and PRGF to ensure that the instruments complement one another. In
general, the structural and social benchmarks will be covered by the PRSC, while the PRGF will
cover macroeconomic issues.
C. COOPERATION WITH AFDB
94.  Consistent with the memorandum of understanding between the African Development
Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank, the staffs of these organizations increasingly conduct joint
25



missions, share information and documents more systematically, and coordinate their respective
activities in Uganda. The AfDB intends to design, in collaboration with Government and donors,
a policy-based loan that is consistent with and supports aspects of the ]PRSC. In addition, the
project modality, particularly at the sector level, is likely to remain an important vehicle that the
AfDB will use to channel financial aid to Uganda in the medium term. This notwithstanding, the
priority sectors in the PRSC are the same as those identified in the AfDB's country strategy paper
for 1999-2001 for Uganda, that is, agriculture, health, education, transport, and public utilities
(including water and sanitation). This will help ensure that AfDB's project lending is consistent
with the objectives of the PRSC. In 2001, the AfDB will prepare its strategy for 2002-2004,
including a review of aid modalities and priority sectors of intervention.
D. PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL AND BILATERAL DONORS
95.  Several donors (European Commission, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the
UK) are prepared to support the PEAP/PRSP using the programmatic approach. These donors
plan to use the PRSC policy matrix as the framework to disburse their support, whilst monitoring
the PEAP/PRSP implementation via the MTEF and budgetary process. After a transition period,
there is expected to be one annual Government-donor review of progress against undertakings
and the PEAP/PRSP indicators. Government has confirmed that this approach is in line with the
partnership principles espoused in the PEAP/PRSP. They welcome the fact that donors will have
shared and hence compatible benchmarks as this approach will free tup time for officials to
perform their other duties. Government will consider these issues further as part of the
preparation of the PEAP Volume m.
96.  At the sector level, all donors have agreed to operate within Government's education and
health policies and priorities as well as in the context of the sector reviewv process. In the health
sector, for example, Belgium, UK (DFID), Ireland, Sweden, and IDA will provide their support in
a programmatic fashion and use joint documentation.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
97.  The proposed Credit is a core operation to implement the objectives of the PEAP/PRSP
and the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy. As detailed below, Ugamda has achieved, prior
to presentation to the Board, several key program benchmarks in the areas of equitable and
efficient use of public resources, cross-cutting public sector reforms, and education, health and
water and sanitation.
A. REFORM MEASURES AND ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD PRESENTATION
98.  As part of its PEAP/PRSP and service delivery reform program supported by the PRSC,
the Government of Uganda has carried out the following prior actions:
* Agreed with IDA on the MTEF for 2000/01-2002/03 and executed the 2000/01
budget consistent with agreed allocations through the first two quarters.
* Introduced monitoring of results and annual output targets in the roads, education,
health and water and sanitation sectors in the 2000/01-2002,/03 Budget Framework
Paper.
* Agreed on the objectives and principles of a pay reform strategy consistent with the
MTEF and improved service delivery.
26



* Issued new procurement regulations for ministries, departments, and agencies.
* Established a coordination mechanism for guiding and monitoring reform programs in
financial management.
* Gazetted the Leadership Code 2000 Bill and the Inspectorate of Government 2000 Bill
and tabled them in Parliament.
* Implemented the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor education sector
review in April 2000, satisfactory to and confirmed by the education sector review in
October 2000.
* Launched a national recruitment campaign for 15,000 new teachers.
* Implemented the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor health sector
review in April 2000, satisfactory to and confirmed by the health sector review in
October 2000.
* Made interim procurement arrangements in the health sector in accordance with the
recently issued procurement regulations for ministries, departments, and agencies.
* Established fully staffed district water and sanitation teams in half of the districts.
* Settled debts worth USh 5 billion owed to the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation by government ministries, departments, and agencies.
99. Whether IDA will proceed with the PRSC-II will be determined by satisfactory progress
made in the following areas:
*  Agreement on Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for 2001/02-2003/04;
and execution of the 2001/02 budget consistent with agreed allocations through the
first two quarters.
*  Cabinet approval of pay reform strategy, consistent with the MTEF and improved
service delivery.
* Implementation of the action plan for payroll management.
* Implementation of public procurement reforms.
* Implementation of financial management reforms.
* Implementation of the anti-corruption action plan.
* Achievement of targets set in joint Government-donor sector reviews in education and
health.
* Successful launch of the joint Government-donor sector review process in water and
sanitation.
* Operationalization of the Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
B. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
100. To facilitate the PRSC program design, Government has set up an inter-ministerial task
force, led by the MOFPED and including NGO representation. Concomitantly, Government is
preparing a third volume of the PEAP, which is expected to spell out the principles for
Government-donor partnership coordination with a view of increasing programmatic support.
27



101. Monitoring Arrangements. Uganda has made great strides in the use of information for
policy making in recent years. One of the main objectives of the PRSC is to build on this positive
experience and help streamline the numerous ongoing monitoring and evaluation initiatives. Key
monitoring mechanisms for poverty and sector-level outcomes include three independent annual
surveys: household, service delivery, and integrity surveys. Periodic participatory poverty
assessments, and expenditure tracking and enterprise surveys will also be carried out. In addition,
management information systems are being set up in the health, education and water and
sanitation sectors, and a poverty monitoring strategy has been drafted. Sector reviews in health
and education have gone a long way towards agreeing on a small but consistent set of monitoring
indicators and their means of verification (Schedule 3). A sector program is also envisaged in
water and sanitation.  The PRSC focuses, in particular, on ensuring that the reporting
requirements set by the center on local governments will be streamlined. Monitoring is
increasingly a joint effort between Government, IDA and other donors in the context of the
PEAP/PRSP, education and health sector reviews, and the PRSC. It is also expected that the
Government-donor review processes for the PEAP/PRSP, MTEF and PRSC will be fully
harmonized during 2002.
102. Supervision and Subsequent PRSCs. Supervision and preparation of the subsequent
Credits will take place in close collaboration with other donors and be consistent with the PRSP
review mechanism. Government will report to IDA and other donors on a quarterly basis on
progress made in each PRSC program area. In addition, the achievement of PRSC targets will be
assessed annually in the context of the PRSP review that will document t:he progress made in the
PEAP/PRSP implementation and analyze the outcomes of reforms. The r eform program sets out
clear quantitative and qualitative benchmarks for three years, that is, to cover one full PRSP
cycle. The PRSC targets are fully consistent with the PEAP/PRSP. The benchmarks for later
years are guideposts to signal when progress is advanced or falling behind in any given area. If
progress is considered adequate, Uganda's reform program will be supported through subsequent
PRSCs under the programmatic lending framework, subject to the approval of the Board of
Executive Directors. Government and IDA will agree on PRSC-II and PRSC-II on an annual
basis.
C. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
103. Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower is the Republic of Uganda. A single-tranche
Credit of SDR1 16.2 million would be made available upon credit effecliveness, anticipated for
May 2001. The closing date of the Credit would be April 30, 2002. It is envisaged that over the
next two years, there will be two further single-tranche annual PRSCs (each in the amount of
US$150 million equivalent) to support the implementation of the PEAP/PRSP.
104. Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements.8 The Credit will follow IDA's
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.9 In olher words, the Credit
proceeds will be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated single tranche release conditions.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will
be needed. Once the Credit is approved by the Board, the Borrower will open and maintain a
dedicated deposit account in US Dollars for the Borrower's use. As the single tranche is released
8 The IMF Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (August 1999) concluded that: "Uganda has
made notable improvements in enhancing transparency practices in key areas, especially fiscal and
monetary policy and banking supervision".
9 Operational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements Under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans,
February 8, 1996.
28



on Credit effectiveness, IDA will disburse the proceeds of the Credit into the deposit account. If
after deposit in the deposit account the proceeds of the Credit or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the
Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes, or
(ii) refund the amount directly to IDA.
105. The following summarizes the external audits:
*  Deposit account. The deposit account will be independently audited on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.
*  Public (Government) accounts. The AG is required by law to produce his/her annual
report to Parliament on the Public Accounts within 9 months of the financial year-end.
*  Bank of Uganda (BOU). The annual entity financial statements of BOU, audited in
accordance with International Auditing Standards as promulgated by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC), are publicly available.
106. The Country Financial Accountability Report (CFAA) on Uganda concluded that the
central and local government financial management systems represent high fiduciary risk. The
major recommendations contained in that report have been reflected in the reform program
supported by the PRSC. The challenge will be securing the effective implementation of those
recommendations in practice.  In that regard, the assiduous monitoring of the financial
management reform initiatives through a representative coordination committee, whose
composition and terms of reference have recently been decided by Government, is critical.
107. Environmental Assessment. Given that the proposed PRSC includes a significant focus
on sectoral policies and institutions, it is treated as a sector adjustment operation for purposes of
the Bank's operational policies on environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01). The Credit has been
classified as Category B, with the requirement that environmental analysis be incorporated in the
Credit documentation (Annex 2), but no freestanding environmental assessment report is
required.
108. According to the environmental analysis undertaken for the Credit, it is considered to have
mostly positive environmental impacts and most sector activities supported are not expected to
result in any significant negative environmental impacts. The sector activities associated with
potential environmental and social impacts are in the health and water and sanitation sector,
where there are some direct and indirect environmental and social issues that require evaluation
and analysis. Preliminary assessment carried out during the Credit preparation concludes that
these are expected to be sufficiently addressed by appropriate institutions and implementing
agents (Annex 2). IDA currently has a strong presence in both these sectors and will continue
working with counterparts to ensure that appropriate safeguard measures are promoted and
incorporated into sector policy and planning. The PRSC will improve local environmental and
health conditions by expanding health services and reliable water supply and improved sanitation
for the population.
109. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous materials in health care and several
environmental design and sustainability issues of water supply and sanitation facilities. Social
concerns include access to safe drinking water and economic strategies to expand point source
and network coverage to those who cannot afford such services, and community participation in
choosing water services and associated commitments to operation and maintenance. Government
29



and the implementing agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental sustainability
for these sectors associated with the PRSC-I. IDA is working with its counterparts in the
coordinating agency, the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, to create a
viable framework for identifying and tracking key safeguard issues (Ann,&x 2).
D. BENEFITS AND RISKS
110. Benefits. The actions under the PRSC will contribute to the sustainability of Uganda's
recovery by strengthening the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public sector's
capacity to carry out its role more effectively, as envisioned in the PEAP/PRSP. The proposed
Credit has several benefits over the traditional combination of short-term adjustment credits and
investment projects:
* A programmatic approach promotes Ugandan ownership of its poverty reduction and
public expenditure programs, improves predictability c,f funding, strengthens
budgetary institutions, and reduces transaction costs in delivery of external assistance.
* A multi-sectoral approach promotes coordination and collaboration that are essential
ingredients for institutional reforn.
* A comprehensive approach addresses sector and system-wide problems in service
delivery more effectively.
111. Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Them. The Uganda CAS highlights the main risks facing
Government: institutional and human capacity, security, corruption, HIV/AIDS, exogenous
shocks (weather or terms of trade related), and political transition. Wlh7le broader in scope than
the proposed Credit, these risks have a bearing on the PRSC as well. Risks that attend this
operation are as follows:
* There are pervasive institutional and human capacity weaknesses. They are especially
acute at the district level, given ongoing decentralization. T'here is a risk that these
constraints could impede the much needed improvement in public service delivery.
However, in addition to ongoing projects and non-lending services, the PRSC agenda
is geared to addressing institutional deficiencies and hence will help mitigate against
the risk.  A separate capacity building project is currently being designed to
accompany the PRSC.
* Corruption remains a serious problem, which, hitherto, has shown only limited signs
of responding to Government's anti-corruption measures. It could inhibit private
sector confidence and investment and hamper improvements in public service
delivery. However, the top leadership in Uganda is committed to rebuilding Uganda's
ethics and integrity. Key challenges facing Government are the implementation of its
anti-corruption action plan and building an effective incentive system needed to
improve service delivery. The proposed Credit supports both of these efforts.
* Fiduciary risks, which are spelled out in detail in the CFAA and CPAR, are high.
Efforts to mitigate these risks are at the center of Goverrment's service delivery
reform program supported by the PRSC.
30



VI. RECOMMENDATION
112. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by: Shengman Zhang
Managing Director
Washington, D.C.
March 23, 2001
Attachments
31






UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Schedules
Schedules:
Schedule 1:    Letter of Development Policy
Schedule 2:    Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies and Progress Indicators
Schedule 3:    Quantitative Monitoring Indicators and Outcome Targets






Telephones: 243700/9 (10 Lines) Kampala                       Ministry of Finance, Planning
Fax: 230163                                                   and Economic Development
Telegrams: "FINSEC"                                           Finance Headquarters Building
E-mail: finance@imul.com                                      Plot 2-12 Appollo Kaggwa Rd.
THE RE UBLIC OF UGANDA   P.O. Box 8147
In any correspondence on                                      Kampala
this subject please quote No                                  Uganda
9 March 2001
Mr James D. Wolfensohn
President
Intemational Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr Wolfensohn:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. I am writing to request, on behalf of the Govermment of the Republic of Uganda, a
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) of SDR 116.2 million in support of our strategy
under the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). This letter sets out the actions that
Government will undertake over the medium term to implement the strategy, focusing on
measures that will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of Government operations,
resulting in improved service delivery, particularly to the poor. In addition, I am attaching a
policy matrix we have prepared in collaboration with the IDA team and other donors and that
sets out the contents of this letter in summary form.
2. The prioritisation process in the attached matrix incorporates critical time constraints on
the various actions and outputs described. Completion of the actions and outputs shown in
bold typeface in the matrix by March 2001 is considered critical to the success of our reforms.
Therefore, we propose these actions and outputs as specific benchmarks for PRSC I. The
remaining actions and outputs represent our vision of the ongoing process and our best
current estimate of actions and outputs that will be carried out and demonstrate the ongoing
success of our reform process during the subsequent two years.
1. Background and Recent Developments
3. The overriding objective of Government policy is the reduction of poverty in Uganda.
Uganda's first national comprehensive strategy for fighting poverty, the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP) completed in 1997, has guided Government policy since then. The PEAP
has been extremely influential in guiding the preparation of sector-wide approaches to policy
reform and investment programming and improving the focus of Government's three-year
rolling Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in the fight against poverty.



4.    The PEAP was revised during 2000 in light of progress made since 1997, including
the development of sector-wide approaches, the findings of the Uganda Participatory
Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP), the constraints identified in the 1999 Poverty Status
Report, and the development of costings of public actions and monitorable indicators in key
poverty-oriented sectors. In addition, the PEAP has taken into consideration the sector
investment plans completed so far, including the Education Sector Investment Plan (ESIP),
the 10-Year Strategic Plan for Main Roads, the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP), the
Plan for the Modernisation of Agriculture (PMA), and the Medium Term Competitiveness
Strategy for the Private Sector (2000-2005). The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
which was endorsed by the Boards of the World Bank and the bIternational Monetary Fund
in May 2000, is a summary of the revised PEAP. The Poverty Status Report 2001 is the
basis for the first PRSP progress report.
5.    Government now wishes to improve both the efficiency of its delivery of public
services and the effectiveness of these services in reducing poverty. While these concepts
are interlinked, increased efficiency implies improved management systems and practices in
the public sector, including improved financial accountability. Improved effectiveness
implies a closer alignment between outcomes and policy objectives through greater focus on
service outputs during budget preparation. Government is therefore requesting the Poverty
Reduction Support Credit from the World Bank to support Government's reforms in these
areas and help finance implementation of the PEAP. The reform programme outlined below
will help ensure the success of the PEAP.
2. The Reform Programme
6.    The revised PEAP is structured around four overarching pillars:
* rapid and sustainable economic growth and structural transformation;
- good governance and security;
- increased ability of the poor to raise their incomes; and
* enhanced quality of life of the poor.
The selected policy reform measures set out below are grouped under the same four
headings.
PEAP Pillar I: Rapid and Sustainable Economic Growth and Structural
Transformation
Efficient and Equitable Use of Public Resources
7.    Since 1987 Government has introduced macro-economic reforms aimed at restoring
and maintaining macro-economic stability and undertaken stuctural reforms aimed at
improving Uganda's economic, social and institutional infrastructure. The results have been
impressive. GDP growth has averaged close to 7 percent since 1987, inflation has averaged
5 percent since 1992/93 whilst international reserves have accumulated to comfortable
2



levels of about 5 months of imports of goods and services. Domestic government revenue
increased from 6 percent of GDP (at factor cost) in 1986/87 to close to 12 percent currently
and, while maintaining macro-economic stability, Government has been able to increase its
expenditure from 8.6 percent of GDP (at factor cost) in 1986/87 to 20.6 percent in
1999/2000.'  Generous external assistance from  our development partners has also
substantially contributed to these positive developments. Since 1999/00 we have
experienced a slow down in economic growth to about 5 percent due to adverse terms of
trade.
8.    In the 1990s Uganda  established a welfare monitoring system with regular
household surveys. The results of these surveys show a dramatic and consistent downward
trend in income poverty and suggest that Government is on track in achieving its long-term
target of eradicating poverty. By 1999/00, the share of Ugandans living below the poverty
line (based on the headcount index) had fallen to 35 percent from 56 percent in 1992/93.
For most of the 1990s, poverty fell fastest for the poorest sections of society as evidenced
by the more rapid growth in real household consumption. More recently it has become
evident that this trend has been reversed in the North because of prolonged conflict.
9.    Government regards continued macro-economic stability as critical for a framework
that promotes economic growth. Therefore no changes of direction are planned. Rather we
will continue existing policies aimed at achieving the following macro-economic targets:
* maintain GDP growth rate of 7 percent;
* contain underlying inflation to no more than 5 percent;
* maintain foreign reserves at about five months' imports of goods and services;
* sustain levels of external debt; and
* support a competitive exchange rate.
10.   After having roughly doubled in the early 1990s, government revenue as a
proportion of GDP (at factor cost) has stagnated at 11-12 percent since 1996/97. This has
seriously constrained the size of the resource envelope and also the level of expenditures
necessary for attaining PEAP objectives. Increasing the revenue yield as a percentage of
GDP will require significant efficiency improvement at the Uganda Revenue Authority
(URA), increased efforts to mobilise non-tax revenue of government agencies and increased
revenue-generating capacity of local governments.  To improve URA performance,
Government is currently taking measures to recruit new top management that will improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of URA operations by:
*  ensuring the design and implementation of a viable business plan and human
resource development plan;
*  ensuring the development and implementation of a new and effective integrated
computer system to facilitate administration of internal taxes in a single
application and enabling the sharing of information with customs.
11.   Macro-economic policy will be accompanied by a deepening of current institutional
reforns in the public sector and in other key areas such as public utilities, transport
'All data presented in this document is at factor cost.
3



infrastructure, the commercial justice system and the banking and financial system. These
reforms are set out in Government's Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy for the Private
Sector (2000-2005) aimed at removing key constraints to private sector growth.
Allocations and Actual Expenditure
12.   From a situation ten years ago where the majority of public expenditure was
determined by donor priorities, considerable progress has been made in ensuring that most
public expenditure, whether Government or donor-financed, now reflects the priorities set
out in the PEAP. The development of the MTEF and of sector investment programmes in
key sectors such as education and health have strengthened the alignment of donor funding
with PEAP priorities. Government will continue to place priority on adequate funding of
PEAP priorities in the MTEF. To this end, Government will continue (through its Public
Expenditure Review process) to agree with its development partners, including IDA, on the
broad composition of the MTEF as it is updated each year. In order to monitor that budget
execution is consistent with the agreed budget, Government wiL. continue to share relevant
information with its development partners for review and discussion. hn the annual public
expenditure review in May 2000 Government agreed with IDA on the MTEF for 2000/01-
2002/03, and has executed the 2000/01 budget through the first; two quarters of the fiscal
year consistent with the agreed allocations.
13.   The macro-economic achievements outlined above have been underpinned by the
MTEF, the resource envelope for which has consisted of non-inflationary sources of
financing. In recent years, this has been supported by the Poverty Action Fund (PAF),
which was created in 1998 mainly out of the expenditure savings arising from the highly
indebted poor country (HIPC) debt relief and enhanced HIPC initiatives and additional
donor funding. As a result there has been a major shift of resources into PEAP pillars Im
and IV. For example, in 1994/95 Government expenditure on education amounted to 20
percent of total public spending, roughly equal to expenditure on both public administration
and security. By 1999/00, the share spent on education had risen to 26 percent of the total
outturn, compared with 22 percent for public administration an.d 16 percent for security.
These reforms have encouraged donors to shift their financing away from projects towards
programmatic support because they broadly share the policy priorities articulated by
Government and expressed in the MTEF and are confident that the sectors they consider to
be important will be funded. Government has encouraged this shift because it strengthens
the budget system, facilitates the planning of expenditure on a coherent sectoral basis,
increases Government's flexibility in resource allocation and simplifies aid management.
14.   Government has included in the MTEF for 2001/02-2003/04 indicative expenditure
levels for donor-financed projects. However, these funds are not explicitly programmed by
the sector working groups during preparation of the Budget Framework Papers (BFP). To
improve coverage of the MTEF, Government intends over time to integrate donor project-
financing within the MTEF process. This will be done in the firsi: instance by extending the
sector-wide approaches currently in place for main roads, health and education, to other
sectors, of which the most advanced are the water and sanitation and justice, law and order
sectors and also the multi-sectoral Plan for Modernisation of Agriculture. In the second
instance, as part of the MTEF process, sector working groups will be given envelopes for
4



externally financed projects and asked to identify development priorities over the MTEF
period within these ceilings.
15.   In the preparation of the MTEF, staffing and wage-level issues have been handled
outside the sector-specific expenditure programmes. This has had the effect of significantly
restricting the range of budgetary choices available to these sectors. As a pilot effort, the
sector working groups for health and education have explicitly included staffing and wage
issues in their BFPs for the period 2001/02-2003/04. Over time, this process will be
deepened and extended to other sectors with the aim of enabling sector working groups to
make recommendations regarding the relationship between the amount of budget allocated
to wage, non-wage and development expenditure.
16.   Government will also endeavour to ensure that the execution of the budget is
consistent with the MTEF objectives. As part of this process the Budget Performance
Report, which analyses discrepancies between budgeted and actual revenues and
expenditure, was produced for the first time for fiscal year 1999/00. This report will
henceforth be published annually in time for the first budget framework consultative
workshop at the end of October. In addition, semi-annual and eventually quarterly budget
performance reporting will be introduced and shared with all stakeholders.
Intergovernmental Transfers
17.   A number of issues have arisen in the system of fiscal transfers from central to local
government. Under the current system, a multitude of conditional grants fund basic service
delivery, while the unconditional grants mainly fund the associated management and
administration expenses. One issue is that in the attempt to ensure that conditional grants
are used for the purposes for which they are intended, mainly activities falling under the
PAF. Guidelines for the use of the grants have not been flexible enough. As conditional
grants provide about 80 percent of total grant funding, local governments, particularly those
at lower levels, consider that their particular needs are not being addressed, implying less
than maximum effectiveness. Second, cumbersome reporting systems and multiple bank
accounts, though designed to ensure proper use of funds, have led to system inefficiencies,
while also failing to ensure accountability. Third, there is an inherent balance that must be
found between transfers along sectoral lines that are oriented towards national priorities and
transfers along non-sectoral lines that are oriented towards local priorities.  Fourth,
unconditional grants have, in many districts, not been sufficient to finance the management
and administration costs of service delivery, thereby affecting the quality of service delivery
itself.
18.   To address these issues, the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development (MOFPED) commissioned a comprehensive study on the system of fiscal
transfers in October 2000. The results of the study were presented to all stakeholders in a
series of workshops in January 2001. Following a detailed review of the study and its
recommendations, a strategy for a modified fiscal transfer system oriented towards both
increased efficiency and effectiveness will be presented to the Cabinet during 2001/02.
This strategy will be implemented in 2002/03.
5



Results Oriented Budget Planning
19.   To ensure that managers focus on real progress towards PEAP objectives,
Government will undertake the following:
*  Establish clear output and outcome targets at the sectoral and district levels. Such
targets will cascade through from the PEAP to sector and district policies, budget
frameworks and work plans. Projects like UPPAP represent a way of bringing a
bottom-up perspective to planning and spending decisions. The roads, education,
health and water and sanitation sectors have introduced output targets and
monitoring of results in their 2000/01-2002/03 BFPs. These will become more
focused and streamlined in the BFPs for the following years during which the
justice, law and order sector will also introduce output and outcome measures. This
process will be extended to other sectors in subsequent exercises.
*  Align the Outcome-Oriented Budget process being implemented by MOFPED with
Results Oriented Management being implemented by the Ministry of Public Service
(MOPS), to ensure consistency of targets and accountability. This process is
expected to be completed by March 2002.
PEAP Pillar II: Good Governance and Security
Improve Management Systems and Practices in the Public Sector
20.   In order to further improve service delivery and encourage donors to adopt
programmatic funding as opposed to project funding, Government has targeted a number of
cross-cutting issues for improvement:
* reforming public services, including the pay reform strategy;
-  reforming the public procurement system;
- strengthening financial management in the public service;
- strengthening and streamlining monitoring and evaluation;
  increasing transparency and civil society participation;
*  implementing Government's Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption
and Build Ethics and Integrity in Public Office.
21.   Looking at each of the above issues, I am setting out below the progress made so far
and our intended actions in the next few years.
Public Service Management
22.   Since the launch of the Public Service Reform Programime in the early 1990s, the
number of public servants in Uganda has fallen from about 320,000 in 1992 to about
140,000 in 1997. Arising from this and the monetisation of benefits, average monthly pay
levels for public servants were raised from the extremely low level of Ush 4,900 (US$4
equivalent) in 1992 to about Ush 46,000 (US$40 equivalent) in 1997.
6



23.    From 1998 to date budgetary constraints and renewed growth in the size of the civil
service to meet the needs of education, health and other basic service delivery have eroded
and in some cases reversed the early gains. In spite of the low rate of inflation, the wage
bill provided in the MTEF has not been adequate to compensate public officers for the
erosion of their salary purchasing power. Moreover, pay levels have fallen relative to the
private sector equivalents, particularly for those public servants in middle to senior level
professional, technical and administrative grades. Therefore, serious problems are being
experienced in retaining people with critical skills, having a highly negative impact on
service quality.
24.   To enhance the quality of the public service, Government has been working on a
pay reform strategy, which combines the results of a job evaluation exercise and a pay
comparator study. The former, completed in January 2000, proposes a rationalisation of the
civil service structure on the basis of relative responsibilities. This alone, given current
establishment sizes, would substantially increase the wage bill, as the grades of many
professional staff would increase conmuensurate with their responsibilities. The latter,
completed in June 1999, indicates the need for large increases in salaries of key professional
staff to retain them in the public sector. The equity considerations of the strategy (as
reflected in a large targeted drop in the compression ratio) would also imply a large increase
in wage rates for staff in lower grades, although their wage rates are more in line with the
private sector comparators. The wage bill implications of these two approaches is beyond
the public resources currently available in the medium term.
25.    Further, distortions and inequities in the compensation system have increased in
recent years. This is due to both the payment of non-task allowances on an ad hoc and
discriminatory basis, and payments by development partners far in excess of normal public
service rates of pay to staff in project implementation units.
26.   In the medium term, financial constraints to pay reform will be exacerbated by the
continuing rapid growth of employment of frontline workers in high priority basic social
services, including education, health, agricultural extension and water and sanitation. It is
projected that a total of 58,000 new employees will be required to deliver services in these
areas over the next five years, in addition to the 30,000 new employees added over the three
years to 1999/00. The scope for offsetting reductions in other areas of the public service is
relatively modest, reflecting the sizeable reductions already achieved during the 1990s.
27.    To meet these challenges, Government is prioritising its medium-term pay reform
strategy in five areas:
*  restore and preserve the purchasing power of salary levels for all public
officers;
*  implement the job evaluation report, starting with the senior-level professional
and management grades;
* eliminate distortions arising from select pay and awards and allowances;
* achieve market benchmarked salary targets for critical roles and skills positions;
and
* establish a sustainable retirement benefits scheme.
28.    To help achieve these aims, Government will:
7



*  curtail employment growth in low-priority sectors;
*  phase out public servants paid by development partners in project
implementation units; and
*  encourage integrity and ethical conduct through improved human resource
management practices.
29.   Government is therefore committed to resolving the public service management
issues outlined above through closer collaboration between the MOPS and my Ministry.
More specifically, our two Ministries have reached an agreement on the objectives and
principles that underpin a sustainable and affordable pay reforn strategy consistent with the
MTEF and improved service delivery. The MOPS is also to develop a strategy to enhance
and sustain the progress made under the Public Service Reform Programme, including
improved human resource management strategies. We expect that the emerging strategies
based on these principles and objectives will ensure the recruitment, motivation and
retention of staff with skills that are appropriate for the delivery of better public services.
30.   Government is currently tackling the long-standing problem of bottlenecks in the
processes of recruiting and placing new employees on the government payroll. These
bottlenecks are largely due to insufficient capabilities and inefficiencies of various agencies
responsible for processing the appointment and deployment of new recruits and ensuring
timely payment of their salaries.  Insufficient operational resources also handicap
performance at the district level. Government has initiated measures to remove the
bottlenecks by (i) preparing, under the leadership of the Ministry of Public Service, an
action plan to identify and remove the constraints that delay access to the payroll; and (ii)
implementing the action plan under the control of an inter-ministerial taskforce that will
meet quarterly. Our target is that new staff will be on the government payroll within 30
calendar days of appointment.
Public Procurement
31.   Government has realised that the existing public procurement system is inadequate
to address the demands of a liberalised economy modelled on the principles of economy,
efficiency and transparency.  In order to address these inadequacies, Government
established a Task Force in 1997 to review the procurement system and propose a system
that will ensure transparency, economy, and efficiency in public: procurement. The report of
the Task Force identified a number of major weaknesses. First, the legal instruments for
controlling the procurement process are not only diffused over several laws and regulations,
but they also lack enforcement and monitoring provisions. Second, the procedures in a
number of areas are deficient: lack of standard procurement (locuments, weak conflict of
interest provisions, inadequate contract management and monitoring provisions and
inadequate record keeping systems. Third, the existing Central Tender Board (CTB) was
found to be inefficient, and lacking in autonomy, while its membership does not represent
the full cross-section of stakeholders. Lastly, there is a serious shortage of skilled, qualified
and experienced procurement staff in the country, partly because donors have often
performed the procurement function.
8



32.   The Task Force focused only on procurement systems at the central government
level, but the donor community and Government, through the preparation of the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), have reviewed the whole public sector
procurement system, including that of the local governments. The CPAR exercise identified
more weaknesses in the system, including inconsistencies between the central and local
government procedures, overly restrictive tendering at local government level, lack of
provisions for procurement planning and weak management of the pre-shipment inspection
function.
33.   Following the recommnendations of the Task Force and the CPAR, Government is
reforming the procurement system in the medium term through the following actions:
*  issue  new  Public  Finance  (Procurement) Regulations for ministries,
departments and agencies, effective from March 1, 2001;
* transform the CTB into an autonomous regulatory institution;
* establish contract committees in all ministries and parastatals with full authority
to undertake procurement;
* employ procurement agents to support weak procurement units. While long-
term procurement agents are being selected through an international
competitive process, procurement agents financed by DFID will, with
immediate effect, be made available to all the three ministries (education, health
and water).
* create procurement units in all procuring ministries, departrnents and agencies
during 2001/02;
e table a new Procurement Bill in Parliament during 2001/02;
* harmonise procurement regulations at central and local government levels
during 2001/02;
e the Secretary to the Treasury in my Ministry to hold accounting officers
responsible for their departments' procurement function by reiterating this
requirement in their annual letters of appointment during 2001/02;
e complete ex post procurement audit of at least 20 percent of the value of the
2001/02 recurrent and capital procurement expenditures for education, health
and water and sanitation by March 2003;
*  examine and adopt the best option for improving the efficiency of National
Medical Stores (NMS) by March 2003.
34.   Implementing the above reforms, including a major training programme, is
estimated to cost close to Ush 8 billion over the next two years. Training of contract
committees and procurement units has already commenced and will be a continuous
activity. Government will ensure that funds for procurement reform are included in the
MTEF and will seek additional donor funds for the interim period.
Financial Management
35.   In recent years, significant improvements in public sector accounting and reporting
have been achieved. Most notably, the annual public accounts of Government have been
produced within the statutory period of four months after the end of the financial year for
each of the past four years. Nevertheless, recent assessments undertaken by Government
9



jointly with donors, such as the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) with
IDA, have identified a number of areas that need to be strengthened to enhance financial
management.
36.   With the support of a number of donor assisted initiatives, such as the Second
Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP 11) and the Local Government
Development Project (LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and
Decentralisation Support Project funded by DFID, Government is seeking to rapidly
enhance the financial accountability framework in pursuit of the following objectives:
* mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both taxpayers
and donors;
* achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds;
* enhance transparency and accountability; and
* establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector development
and regulation.
37.   As an initial measure, my Ministry has expanded the mandate of the co-ordinating
mechanism in place for guiding and monitoring all refonn programmes in financial
management throughout Government using the existing structures under EFMP 11.
38.   In addition to the above mechanism, Government will undertake the following
measures:
- strengthen the legal and regulatory framework by tabling a new Public Finance
Bill in Parliament during 2001/02;
- revise Treasury Accounting Instructions and Financial Regulations;
* improve the quality and timeliness of government financial reporting, by
producing quarterly consolidated reports on budget execution for review by the
steering committee for financial management reform;
e strengthen financial management in the medium term by establishing a
computer based Integrated Financial Management System, initially at the
MOFPED and rolled out thereafter to line ministries;
* establish a financial management support progranmme for the decentralisation
process by providing additional support in accounting to districts that currently
lack capacity;
* regularise material non-reconciled items referred to in the 1999 Report of the
Auditor General on the Public Accounts, including the Consolidated Revenue
Fund and bank accounts;
* provide adequate information on actual public spending on frontline basic
services using expenditure tracking surveys. The Ministry of Health (MOH) in
collaboration with my Ministry has designed and contracted such a survey on
the primary health care conditional grant to be carried out this fiscal year. At
least two service sectors will carry out similar surveys annually and disseminate
the results;
* enhance the independence of the newly appointed and appropriately qualified
Auditor General by introducing new legislation; fiurthermore, to augment the
capacity of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) (including capacity
building) by retaining a reputable international fiin/s to assist in improving
10



audits in the education, health and water and sanitation sectors, including
districts.
Monitoring and Evaluation
39.   Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) processes require strengthening in order for
stakeholders to determine more easily whether the effectiveness of public service delivery is
increasing and the pace of poverty reduction is maintained. M&E remains at present overly
centred on compliance with government rules and regulations and with focus on inputs and
processes rather than on the end results of policy, programme and project efforts. Recurrent
and development expenditures are reviewed separately rather than for their combined
contribution towards overall goals. The collecting, organising and use of data for M&E are
compartmentalised and fragmented between multiple government and donor planning and
progress reporting arrangements. Officials are therefore burdened with reports but have
little systematic information about the performance and effectiveness of actual public
service delivery.
40.   Government has established a task force from the existing Poverty Monitoring
Network to prepare an action plan that will streamline and strengthen M&E. It will also
draft a National Poverty Monitoring Strategy that is expected to be approved by Cabinet by
March 2002. Under the guidance of the task force, the harmonisation of different progress
reporting and evaluation formats has started, with potentially substantial resource savings
for Government. Simplified formats will focus on measuring the progress of government
policies and programmes towards realising target outputs and desired outcomes and,
ultimately, reducing poverty. By March 2003, central and local government agencies and
also donors will be using simplified and common monitoring and evaluation reporting
formats.
41.   To this end, we are enhancing transparency and consultation in the budget process,
but we need to do more in terms of generating feedback from the public on the quality of
service delivery. Government sees it as critical that the findings of the National Service
Delivery Survey recently carried out by the MOPS be utilised to establish a baseline, goals
and targets for service delivery and measures of client satisfaction. The findings have been
publicly disseminated and will be used as an instrument for setting service delivery
improvement goals and targets and developing new evaluative approaches. In future, the
annual conduct of national service delivery surveys will be carried out by the Uganda
Bureau of Statistics and the findings are expected to act as a barometer of changing levels of
service reach, coverage and client satisfaction.
Transparency, Participation and Anti-Corruption
Transparency
42.   Government plans to improve the right of access to public information, thus
improving accountability, through a number of measures. First, it will revise the Official
Secrets Act, and replace it with a modern access to government information law.
Legislation for whistleblower protection will also be prepared. Second, my Ministry is in
the process of developing a communication strategy for full implementation by March 2003.
Lastly, we have embarked on issuing a number of publications to clarify government
processes and the rights and responsibilities of stakeholders in those processes. For
11



example, The Citizens Guide to the Budget Process has been issued by my Ministry in
English and also in the most commonly used Ugandan languages.
43.   In recent years Government has increasingly used public information to empower
citizens to demand greater accountability from local governments. Jointly with my
Ministry, the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) now disseminates information
through the media on both the PEAP and also details of transfers of conditional grants to
districts. Public notices on primary education have been made mandatory in primary
schools. Next year our intention is to extend this practice to health, water and sanitation
and agriculture services so that public notices of financial transfers for these services will be
posted at facilities, districts and sub-counties, respectively.
Civil Society Participation
44.   Full involvement of civil society in decision-making is both necessary and
challenging. One area that has been explored to enhance service delivery is to build
stronger partnerships with non-governmental organisations (N(30s), including faith-based
organisations. To this end Government, in collaboration with the NGOs and faith-based
organisations, has established a computerised database of NGOs to improve information
available on NGOs as well as accountability. Government is setting up collaborative
initiatives that are expected to result in a new NGO policy and code of conduct. We will
also work with the NGOs and civil society at large to establish channels of feedback to
monitor service delivery at the local level. Our expectation is that these initiatives will
result in an improved operational environment for Government NGO partnership and self-
monitoring of NGOs.
45.   Government recognises that district and sector plans do not always adequately
reflect community perspectives and priorities. The numerous agencies, both government
and donor-funded, apply participatory methods and approaches in an uncoordinated fashion.
MOLG has taken the lead in promoting a harmonised firamework for community
participation in basic service delivery. Government expects to adopt the harmonised
framework and review the experience in its implementation during the PRSC programme
period.
Anti-Corruption
46.   In 1996, H. E. President Museveni made eradicating corruption a national priority.
In 1998, Government prepared a draft plan to combat corruption. After broad-based
stakeholder participation the plan was revised and in July 2000 the President launched the
"Government Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption and Build Ethics and
Integrity in Public Office-Fiscal Years 2000-2002". The plan aims at building capacity for
co-ordination, planning and monitoring anti-corruption efforts and building the ethics and
integrity of the people of Uganda.
47.   Government has set out the following broad areas for action: (i) strengthening the
capacity of law enforcement for better detection, investigation, prosecution and judgement
12



of corruption cases; (ii) strengthening procurement systems; (iii) strengthening financial
accountability; (iv) implementing public sector pay reform; (v) ensuring effective co-
ordination of agencies on corruption issues; (vi) strengthening the legal framework related
to corruption; and (vii) strengthening the system of enforcement of codes of conduct.
Implementing this action plan will require the participation of several agencies under the co-
ordination of the Directorate of Ethics and Integrity (DEI).
48.   Government has singled out the following priorities to signal progress in its fight
against corruption. The Leadership Code Bill 2000 and Inspectorate of Government (IGG)
Bill 2000 were gazetted and tabled in Parliament in September 2000 by the Minister for
Ethics and Integrity. The former closes existing loopholes in the Code, and promotes
enforcement through open citizen access to leaders' asset declarations. Leaders who fail to
complete asset declarations will be sanctioned, including disqualification from office. The
latter bill provides for the powers and procedures required by the Inspector General of
Government (IGG) to fight corruption more effectively. IGG has also published his semi-
annual report for the first half of fiscal year 2000/2001 and is expected to propose a stronger
follow-up mechanism for these reports, which Government can adopt.
49.   In order to improve our method of monitoring corruption, DEI has, with the support
of donors, initiated a process to develop quantitative monitoring indicators to assess
progress in the fight against corruption. In this context, IGG and DEI will carry out the
second integrity survey during 2002 and disseminate its results.
50.   Government also recognises the weak capacity of the criminal justice system to
process cases effectively and efficiently. In this respect, it is committed to: (i) strengthen
co-ordination and co-operation among the justice, law and order agencies; (ii) ensure
efficient and effective procedures for detection, investigation and state prosecution of
crime; and (iii) improve public awareness of constitutional and legal rights and procedures.
51.   Government has adopted a sector-wide approach to criminal and commercial justice
reform. Two committees have been formed to guide and co-ordinate the sector. The
Steering Committee formulates sector policy and the Technical Committee provides the
necessary support for implementing it. Both committees are supported by a full time
secretariat. A strategic plan for criminal and commercial justice will be developed by
March 2002, including the relevant performance indicators and the sector-wide approach
and criminal reform programme are expected to be fully operational by March 2003. A
commercial justice reform programme has been developed and will be implemented during
2002 and 2003, including establishment of a commercial court.
PEAP Pillar m: Actions which Directly Increase the Ability of the Poor
to Raise their Incomes
52.   Whilst pillar Im is of immense importance to Government in its efforts to enable as
many Ugandans as possible to enjoy the benefits of a robust and stable economic climate,
no actions or output targets are proposed under PRSC-I.  This is because the new
programmatic approach can be phased in only gradually and because we are still in the
process of devising strategies and work plans for our major delivery vehicle, the Plan for
13



Modernisation of Agriculture (PMA). The PMIA will deliver effective research and
extension solutions to farmers and improve access to rural finance and markets. By the time
that PRSC-1I and PRSC-lII come on stream, we envisage that we shall be in a position to
deliver a properly focused view of our completed and intended actions and output targets.
Meanwhile, IDA's assistance to agricultural research and extension services has been
requested on a project basis.
PEAP Pillar IV: Actions which Directly Improve the Quality of Life for the Poor
53.   Government has a major role to play in improving the quality of life of the poor
through the provision of essential social services. Following the recommendations of the
PEAP in 1997, Government has substantially increased the proportion of the total budget
devoted to key poverty reducing services to 31 percent in 2000/01. While this has already
had a significant impact on poverty in some areas-for example, through the enormous
increase in educational enrolment-service delivery has yet to improve in proportion to the
increased funding.
54.   Government is determined to resolve the key bottlenecks which are holding back
improved service delivery. Cross-cutting issues include public service management and
pay, public sector procurement, financial management and accountability, monitoring and
evaluation, and transparency, participation and anti-corruption, which have been discussed
above. Others are sector-specific. I focus here on the three sectors education, health and
water and sanitation-of greatest concern to the poor.
EDUCATION
55.   Government's Universal Primary Education (UPE) policy has dramatically
increased primary school enrolment since 1997 and increased access to education for the
children of poor households.  UPE has thus eliminated the wealth bias that had
characterised access to primary education. The key challenges now are to improve the
quality of primary education while keeping enrollment high. We need to increase the stock
of classrooms, the number of qualified teachers, the supply and utilisation of instruction
materials, the efficiency of input use, and improve accountability and transparency. In order
to sustain UPE, it is also important to equitably increase access to post-primary education.
Govemment has been working closely with all stakeholders within the institutional
arrangements of the sector-wide approach (SWAP) in the education sector. Government is
committed to achieving the following critical primary education targets by March 2003
compared with the provisional outtums for 2000/01 (in parenthesis):
*  average pupil: teacher ratio of 48:1 (63:1);
* average pupil: classroomratio of 92:1 (121:1);
*  average pupil: book ratio of 3:1 (6:1);
* P7 net enrolment of 20 percent (14 percent);
14



56.   The following actions will be undertaken in the short and medium term in order to
achieve these targets:
*  Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES), MOPS, MOFPED, MOLG and districts
are collaborating in the implementation of a national effort to recruit, deploy and
add to the payroll 35,000 new teachers by 2003. This involves the recent launch of
a national campaign to recruit at least 15,000 new teachers, including retirees,
secondary school graduates and new graduates from teacher training colleges.
Unqualified teachers will be inducted and trained through the Teacher Development
and Management System (TDMS). A system closely to monitor established
positions filled will be put in place, together with an action plan to increase the
share of positions filled in districts with recruitment problems. Through these
measures, Government expects to ensure that all districts achieve at least 95 percent
of their established ceilings by March 2003.
*  Government will also intensify its efforts with regard to classroom construction and
completion. An evaluation is under way of the School Facilities Development
Programme on how to increase the annual output of classrooms. In order to reduce
class sizes, Government will investigate possible cost efficiency measures,
including sequential teaching, and agree on a way forward to achieve the required
targets within the available resources. MOES has recently completed the report on
double shift and agreed clear policy recommendations with MOFPED, which will
be presented, discussed and finalised during the April 2001 education sector review.
Implementing these policy recommendations will commence during the 2002 school
year and will be closely monitored, with a review undertaken by February 2003 so
that a report can be presented at the April 2003 sector review. Government will
also review modalities of textbook distribution and utilisation and implement
recommendations to reduce pupil-book ratios.
58.   The semi-annual Education Sector Reviews (April and October), involving all
stakeholders, have been the main forum for agreeing on undertakings and monitoring
progress in achieving them. In the semi-annual sector review of April 2000 the following
undertakings were agreed upon and their satisfactory implementation was confirmed during
the October 2000 review:
*  Keep budget and releases in line with the MTEF and the MOES and PAF
guidelines, maintaining a minimum of 31 percent of recurrent discretionary
expenditure for the education sector with at least 65 percent of this for primary
education.
*  Hold joint reviews with mutually agreed terms of reference at six-month
intervals and education sector co-ordination committee meetings informed by
commissioners' reports in line with an agreed format at two month intervals.
*  Establish an inter-ministerial standing committee under the permanent secretary
and MOPS to provide co-ordination and continuous reporting on teacher
recruitment to the education sector co-ordination committee from May 2000
onwards.
15



* MOPS to access all appointed teachers to the payroll within one month of
receipt of notifications from the districts, and MOES and MOLG to develop
strategies to attract teachers to disadvantaged communities.
*  Complete restructuring and recruitment of MOES personnel; at least 90 percent
of the positions of the restructured MOES to be filled by October 2000.
HEALTH CARE
59.   III health was the most frequently cited cause and consequence of poverty in the
UPPAP study and improving health is therefore essential to reducing poverty. In line with
the PEAP, Government has developed a new National Health Policy and Health Sector
Strategic Plan (HSSP). The former aims to improve quality and equity in access to services,
and to develop partnerships with stakeholders in the sector (donors, private-for-profit and
private-not-for-profit (PNFP) health providers and non-governmental organisations) under
the sector-wide approach. The HSSP is designed around a basic minimum health package,
which covers the most common causes of ill health with cost-effective interventions.
Several development partners are supporting HSSP implementation and are participating in
semi-annual joint reviews of Government and its partners in the health sector. Satisfactory
implementation of undertakings agreed in the joint health sector review of April 2000 was
confirmed by the subsequent review in October 2000. The undertakings included:
* enhance the human resource skills especially at the front line, through initiating
the training of 1,300 nursing assistants;
* establish procurement capacity in the MOH by preparing and submitting a
procurement plan to facilitate timely release of funds from the MOFPED;
-  establish a contract committee and procurement unit;
- finalize and disseminate guidelines on implementation of the minimum health
package at the district level;
* complete mapping of health infrastructure; and
*  complete  study  on  district drug  management for  the  forthcoming
pharmaceutical strategic plan.
Using the joint reviews, Government and its partners will continue to agree semi-annually
on the undertakings necessary to implement the HSSP and closely monitor progress in
achieving them.
60.   Despite considerable effort by Government to improve the health status of the
population, health indicators in Uganda are still worse than would be expected for its level
of development, even when compared with its neighbours. First, geographical and financial
access to services continues to be poor. Fifty-one percent of the population is still more
than 5 kilometres from a health facility providing basic curative and preventive services. In
the PNFP facilities, patients are required to pay close to full cost for services, while in most
government units, cost-sharing in private wards supplements health workers' salaries and
procurement of drugs. Facilities have been inadequately funded for their functioning, and
many of them are run-down.
16



61.   Second, many public health facilities are under-utilised because of insufficient
drugs, supplies and trained staff. Staff are poorly motivated due to substantial delays in
payment of salaries. This has resulted in staff absenteeism, rude behaviour, and drug
leakages.
62.   Government is addressing these problems in a number of ways. First, MOH is
developing a coherent Health Financing Strategy to be completed by March 2002. The
strategy will outline plans to increase government funding for the delivery of the package,
in the wake of the recent abolition of user fees at the facility level. By March 2002,
Government will be covering at least 50 percent of the cost of the package. Second,
Government will increasingly recognise PNFPs as important deliverers of health services,
thus improving both efficiency and equity, since Government will then not have to put other
facilities in areas served by PNFP facilities. Funding for PNFP providers has increased by
100 percent in the budget for 2000/01.
63.   Third, MOH is also developing a National Health Infrastructure Development and
Maintenance Plan. This will outline the need for rehabilitation, minimum new construction
targeted at under-served areas, and articulate maintenance needs for health facilities.
Procedures for approval of construction of health facilities (by Government, donors and
communities) are to be clearly laid down to ensure prioritisation in providing infrastructure.
The plan will be approved by March 2002.
64.   Fourth, Government will further develop its strategy on human resources for health
through increasing the number and improving the quality of health workers, addressing the
current shortage of frontline workers through training and upgrading of skills of nursing
assistants, settling salary arrears previously owed to health workers, streamlining the payroll
systems, and implementing the overall pay reform strategy. By March 2002, Government
will have prepared and approved a human resource strategy for the health sector.
65.   Finally, the institutional arrangements to manage the pharmaceutical sub-sector
have been of particular concern. Therefore, the MOH has made interim procurement
arrangements in accordance with the new procurement regulations referred to in paragraph
33 above. MOH has submitted a health sector procurement plan to MOFPED and will
operationalise its contract comnimittee and procurement unit during 2001/02.  During
2001/02 MOH will also approve an implementation plan for the national drug policy and a
strategic plan for pharmaceuticals and develop procurement guidelines for drugs and
supplies, based upon a recently completed drug management initiative. Over the medium
term, the capacity of the pharmaceutical unit within MOH is to be defined and upgraded and
the regulatory framework for the pharmaceutical sector updated.
WATER AND SANITATION
66.   The UPPAP showed water and sanitation services to be a high priority for the poor.
In response to this, Government has doubled the proportion of the discretionary budget
allocated to water supply and sanitation (WSS) from 1.7 percent in 1998/99 to 3.4 percent
in 2000/01 and has formulated sector strategies and drawn up investment programmes for
17



rural and urban water supply. In partnership with donors and other key stakeholders,
Government intends to adopt a sector-wide approach (SWAP) to the WSS sector based on
community demand orientation, decentralised management through local governments,
combined with central government facilitation and delivery of services by the private sector.
The SWAP will be broadened to incorporate water for production and water resources
management as soon as the sub-sector strategies are completed.
67.   In rural WSS, Government intends to increase access to safe water and sanitation
from the present 50 percent to 55 percent by March 2003 in line with the Rural WSS
Reform Study and Investment Plan. In pursuance of this objective, Government is
strengthening the capacity of districts by setting up district water and sanitation teams
(DWSTs). These will be integrated into the district establishment by the end of the
programme period. At least half of DWSTs have been fully staffed with support from the
Department of Water Development (DWD). All districts are expected to achieve full
staffing and training of DWSTs by March 2003. DWD will be re-organised to support
district capacity building and delivery of technical assistance to DWSTs through the
establishment of Technical Support Units (TSUs), which will be fully staffed and
operational by March 2002.
68.   To enhance sustainability of rural WSS systems, Government will review existing
operation and maintenance arrangements and further develop and operationalise a nation-
wide maintenance strategy by March 2002. This strategy will be based on the utilisation of
the private sector and full community cost recovery for operation and maintenance.
Through this strategy, the percentage of systems that are functional at any one time is
expected to be at least 80 percent. At the same time, Goveirnment through the combined
efforts of the Ministry of Water, Lands, and Environment (MOWLE) and MOH has agreed
on institutional responsibilities for sanitation and will institute a National Hygiene
Promotion, Sanitation and Communication Strategy by March 2002.
69.   In urban WSS, the objective is to improve safe WSS coverage from 50 percent to 65
percent by March 2003. The urban sector consists of 78 urban centres and district towns.
Based on the recommendations of the recent urban WSS study, Government will seek to
introduce efficiency and commercial orientation into the management of urban WSS.
Assets management and investment planning will be transferred to professionally
constituted public urban WSS authorities in small towns and a dedicated asset holding
authority in the larger towns. All technical, commercial and financial operations in both
regimes will be sub-contracted to professional private operators under a two-prong strategy:
* Small urban WSS systems under local government management: Government
has gazetted 15 urban WSS authorities that will have overall responsibility for
asset management. It has also initiated the sub-contracting of service provision
operations to local private sector operators under management contracts to
increase sustainability. About 45 small town systems will be placed under
management contracts by March 2002 and all 65 systems under the private
sector operators by March 2003. Urban WSS project appraisal, financing and
performance measuring capacities will be developed with assistance from DWD
by March 2003.
18



* Urban WSS systems under National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC)
management: Government through MOWLE and MOFPED has begun the
process of putting NWSC on a firmer financial footing. It has signed a three-
year performance contract with NWSC to stabilise the commercial operations
of NWSC ahead of the transition to private sector participation and has recently
settled Ush 5 billion owed to NWSC by various government agencies.
Government will clear all outstanding debt owed to NWSC as well as resolve
the issue of NWSC long-term debt obligations by March 2003. Following the
simplification of its connection policy in 2000/01, NWSC will simplify its
water tariff structure during 2001/02 and adjust tariffs for inflation.
Government through MOFPED will contract privatisation advisers to prepare
the necessary transaction documents for the creation of an asset holding
authority and pre-qualification of an international water operator by March
2002. A tender for the operations and management of larger urban WSS
systems under a lease arrangement will be issued by March 2003. In parallel,
Government will take steps to ensure the establishment of an independent
regulatory system prior to the engagement of the international water operator.
70.   A summary of the key benchmarks for the WSS sector for the medium term is
presented in the attached policy matrix. Under the leadership of MOFPED and MOWLE an
inter-ministerial steering committee will be established with donor participation to ensure
sector oversight and co-ordinate monitoring, technical assistance and guidance for the
development and management of the SWAP. MOWLE will establish a monitoring protocol
that draws on the routine returns from the districts, the annual household and service
delivery surveys, independent surveys and issue an annual sector report, "State of the WSS
Sector". This report will capture progress on agreed operational indicators and policy
benchmarks from districts and WSS authorities, and provide feedback for districts and
national planning. The details of the monitoring framework will be an output of the first
joint Government-donor sector review in June 2001.
3. CO-ORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
71.   Government is cognisant of the need to establish an effective co-ordination
mechanism in order to ensure successful implementation of the identified actions for the
achievement of the overall objective of improving basic service delivery. Considering the
level of resources requested from IDA under PRSC-I, together with the complementary
resources from other donors, it is critical to ensure effective supervision of the
implementation of the Credit.
72.   The existing structure for the Public Sector Reform Programme, with a sub-
committee of the Cabinet at the apex, provides a framework for policy co-ordination. In
addition, a PRSC Steering Committee chaired by my Ministry, with representatives
including the donor community and civil society, will be formalised and supported by the
existing joint PRSC-Task Force. The two committees will meet quarterly and monthly,
respectively, and be free to co-opt relevant technical expertise as required. The PRSC Task
Force will provide quarterly progress reports to
19



the steering committee. These committees will also interact withl existing committees and
institutional processes working in the relevant areas to ensure broad-based discussion of matters
of common interest. In particular, the Budget Framework Paper preparation process, lasting from
October to May and involving all stakeholders, is an invaluable mechanism for coordinating and
monitoring activities under the PRSC.
4. Conclusions
73.  I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Government's commitment to the
implementation of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The actions to be undertaken over the
medium term under each PEAP pillar focus on measures that will improve, through greater
efficiency and effectiveness, both the quantity and quality of service delivery, particularly to the
poor.
74. Increased efficiency of service delivery implies improved management systems and practices
in the public sector, including improved financial accountability. Improved effectiveness of
service delivery requires closer alignment between outcomes and policy objectives through
greater focus on service outputs during budget preparation. The requested Credit is expected to
support the critical Government reforms set out in this letter and to enable achievement of those
objectives.
75. On behalf of the Government of Uganda, I wish to thank the IDA for the assistance already
provided under the past Structural Adjustment Credits (I-III), the EFMP I and II, the ICBP and
the LGDP. They have been critical in achieving a dramatic reduction in poverty in the 1990s. I
trust that this request for additional assistance through the proposed PRSC I will receive your
favourable consideration.
Yours s7crely
!iXon. Ge  d. Ssendaula
Minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
20



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)
SUJB-                                                 ACTIONS AND OUTPUT T-ARGETS
OBJECT0 VES/                                      PRSC I                      PRSC 11                       PRSC HIf
ACTION                    ISSUE                MARC1 2001                  MARCH 2002                    MARCH 2003                  OUTCOMES
AREAS
Overall outcomes (verification):
1. Reduction in headcount index of poverty (annual household surveys).
OVERALL PRSC OBJECTIVE: IMPROVED BASIC SERVICE                      2. Increased satisfaction with public services (annual service delivery surveys and periodic
DELIVERY                                                            participatory poverty assessments).
PlEAP/1'RSP' PILLAR l: FRAMEW\ORK I-OR EC'ONOIIC ,GRO\\ lTll A:Nl) lTRASNSFORM\lATION
Overall outcome (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE A: EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE USE OF PUBLIC              1. More equitable access to public services (incidence analysis using household surveys and
RESOURCES                                                           public expenditure data).
Allocations and    Allocations and actual   In the annual public    In the annual public expenditure  In the annual public expenditure   Directly poverty
Actual             spending will need to    expenditure review, GOU   review, GOU has agreed with    review, GOU has agreed with    reducing expenditures
Expenditure        remain consistent with   has agreed with IDA on    IDA on MTEF for 2001/02-     IDA on MTEF for 2002/03-      as a share of total
priorities of the PEAP.   MTEF for 2000/01-      2003/04 and has executed      2004/05 and has executed       allocations and actual
2002/03 and has executed   2001/02 budget through first two  2002/03 budget through first two  expenditures expected
2000/01 budget through    quarters consistent with the  quarters consistent with the  to increase from 24
first two quarters        agreed allocations.           agreed allocations.           percent in 1999/2000 to
consistent with the agreed                                                            about 33 percent in
allocations.                                                                          2002/03.
While in the Public    MOFPED has included       MOFPED integrates expenditure                               More comprehensive
Investment Plan, donor-  indicative expenditure  ceilings for donor projects in                              budget, incorporating
funded projects are not  levels for donor-financed  2002/03- 2004/05 MTEF for                                donor projects and
included in the        projects in MTEF for      education, health and                                       wage bill.
expenditure ceilings in   2001/02- 2003/04.      water/sanitation.
MTEF.
Staffing plans and wage  MOES and MOH have       At least five sector expenditure    Majority of sectors reflect
bill not integrated in  reflected staffing plans and   programs reflect staffing plans    staffing plans and a wage bill in
sector expenditure     wage bill in their sector  and wage bill for 2002/03 -  their expenditure plans for
programs within MTEF.  expenditure programs for    2004/05.                    2003/04 - 2005/06.
2001/02 - 2003/04 as a
pilot.
lAction and outputs in bold are credit conditions that are included in the credit agreement of PRSC-I: Actions and outputs for PRSC II and PRSC-III are indicative.
1



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
SUB-               _ _              _                  ACTIONS  DOUTPUT TARGETS                                                      ____.; I_____
OBJECTI VES/   _____=__                             PRSC I                      PRSC u                         PRSC m
ACTION                     ISSUE                 MARCH 2001                   MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                  OUTCOMES
AREAS______                                                     __
Annual outtums have    MOFPED has published the  MOFPED publishes semi-annual  MOFPED publishes quarterly        Budget execution closer
deviated from approved  first annual budget       budget performance reports.    budget performance report.     to the approved
budgets.               perfornance report.                                                                       appropriations.
Intergovernmental  Inflexibility in the use    MOFPED completes a      MOFPED and MOLG finalise a   MOFPED and MOLG                  Reduction in
Transfers           of conditional grants   study of inter-governmental  strategy on streamlining all  implement the strategy on inter-   administrative costs and
weakens local          fiscal transfers.          intergovernmental fiscal       governmental fiscal transfers.    increased ownership of
ownership and imposes                             transfers.                                                     public expenditure
burdensome reporting                                                                                             programs at local level.
requirements.
Results-orientation   Sector plans and      Roads, education, health    Justice, law and order sector  Majority of sectors incorporate    Sector plans and
expenditure programs      and water/sanitation    introduces outpup outcome      output and outcome measures     expenditure programs
are input-oriented.    sectors have introduced    measures and targets in 2001/02   and targets in 2002/03-2004/05    are outputtoutcome-
output targets and       -          2003/04 BFP.         BFP.                           oriented.
monitoring of results in
2000/01 - 2002/03 Budget   MOFPED and MOPS align
Framework Paper (BFP).   OOB and ROM initiatives.
Overall outcomes (verification):
PRSC OBJECTIVE B: IMPROVE SERVICE DELIVERY THROUGH                     1. Increased access and usage of public services (annual service delivery surveys).
CROSS-CUTTING REFORMS                                                  2. Reduction in corruption in public service (national integrity surveys).
B 1: IMPROVF, MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
Public Service      Pay systems and         MOPS and MOFPED            Cabinet approves and publishes   MOPS effects salary          GOU better able to
Management          practices are           have agreed on objectives  the pay strategy consistent with   adjustments consistent with the    recruit, motivate and
inconsistent with      and principles of a pay    MTEF and improved service      pay strategy and linked to     retain skilled staff.
capacity building and  reform strztegy ccensassteat  delivery; MOPS effects salary  performance.
performance. Pay for   with MTEF and improved  adjustments aligned with the
professional and       service delivery.          strategy.
managerial staff is not
..       ~~competitive.



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)I
SUB-                                                   ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVES/                                         PRSC I                      PRSC II                        PRSC III
ACTION                     ISSUE                MARCH 2001                   MARCH 2002                      MARCH 2003                 OUTCOMES
AREAS
Delays in accessing    An inter-ministerial task  MOPS and other ministries                                      New staff entered on
govemment payroll.     force led by MOPS          implement the action plan. An                                  govemment payroll in
prepared an action plan to   inter-ministerial task force                                30 days.
expedite access to        oversees progress and
govemment payroll.        implementation.
Public service reform                             MOPS develops a strategy to    MOPS commences a new phase   The new public service
has not yet yielded                               enhance and sustain the progress  of public service reform,    reform reflects the
major improvements in                             made under the public service  reflecting lessons leamed.      objective of improved
service delivery.                                 reform.                                                        service delivery.
Public              Legal and regulatory    Minister of Finance has   Minister of Finance tables                                     Modemised legislation
Procurement         framework requires      issued new procurement    Procurement Bill in Parliament.                                and regulatory
modemisation.          regulations for ministries,                                                               framework.
departments and           MOLG has harmonised local
agencies.                 govemment procurement
regulations with central
govemment.
Minister of Finance       Procurement units are created in   New CTB publishes its first  Better value for money
establishes a new Central    all procuring ministries,    annual report.                 in procurement.
Tender Board (CTB) and    departments and agencies.
contract committees are
created in all procuring
ministries, departments and
agencies.
Weak enforcement of                               Treasury holds accounting      In collaboration with new CTB,
procurement rules and                             officers responsible for their  OAG carry out audits covering
regulations.                                      department's procurement       at least 20% of the value of
function.                      procurement in education, health
and water/sanitation.
Weak planning                                     Procurement plans are           Procurement plans are
procedures and                                    incorporated in sector         incorporated in all sector
practices.                                        expenditure programs in health,   expenditure programs.
education and water/sanitation.
3



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
SUB-                                                  ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVESI                                       PRSC I                      PRSC 11                       PRSC mIt
ACTION                    ISSUE                MARCH 2001                  MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                 OUTCOMES
AREAS
Employment of procurement
agents to support weak
procurement units.
National Medical Stores  MOH and MOFPED have                                   MOFPED and MOH implement  Improved availability
(NMS) operate          agreed to develop a plan to                             the plan to improve efficiency of  and cost-efficiency of
inefficiently.        improve efficiency of                                    NMS.                          medical supplies.
NMS.
Financial          Legal and institutional   MOFPED has established   MOFPED tables new Public     MOFPED revises treasury       Legislation and
Management         framework outdated.    a co-ordination           Finance Bill in Parliament.   instructions and financial     regulatory environment
mechanism for guiding                                   regulations.                  reflect current budget
and monitoring reform                                                                 system and comply with
programs in financial                                                                  GAAP.
management.
The present manual                               MOFPED approves the design    MOFPED, MOES, MOH and          More timely and
system inadequate for                            of computerised IFMS and      MOLWE pilot implementation of reliable accounts are
accurate recording and                          launches implementation.       the IFMS.                     produced in key basic
reporting of financial                                                                                       services at the central
transactions.                                                                                                 govemment level in
compliance with
GAAP.
High fiduciary risk at    Directorate of Accounts  DA reconciles and/or regularises  DA ensures the accounts and  High fiduciary risk at
the central govemment   (DA) has made            material brought forward items    financial statements for   the centre is mitigated
level.                 preparations for introducing  in the govemment bank accounts  2001/2002 reflect the   before IFMS has been
consolidated quarterly   and consolidated fund.         regularisation/reconciliation of   implemented.
reports on budget                                       all material brought forward
imnlementation frnm                                     iteq.nm
2001/2002.
DA produces quarterly reports
on budget implementation for
the steering committee for
financial management reform.
High fiduciary risks at   MOFPED and MOLG have  MOFPED provides additional    MOFPED provides additional    Timely production of
local govemment level   agreed to appoint additional  accounting staff to MOES,  accounting staff to at least 3  accounts and reduced
and shortage of        accounting staff at central    MOH, MOLWE and to at least   other line ministries and 10 other  fiduciary risk at local
financial management    and district levels.     10 of the weakest districts.  districts.                    govemment level.
. _______________   skills.
4



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIx: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS                                                              ___
OBJECTIVES/                                         PRSC I                      PRSC 11                        PRC mM
ACTION                     ISSUE                MARCH 2001                   MARCH 2002                      MARCH 2003                 OUTCOMES
AREAS                                            .
Current financial      MOH in collaboration with   MOFPED and line ministries    MOFPED and line ministries      Improved flow of funds
management system      MOFPED has designed and  jointly carry out tracking surveys  jointly carry out tracking surveys  to front-line service
does not provide       contracted an expenditure    at least in two service sectors.  at least in three service sectors.    delivery.
adequate information on  tracking survey on PHC
actual spending.       conditional grant.
Weak audit structures    GOU has appointed an     MOFPED submits to the Cabinet  MOFPED tables a Bill to         A more independent
and practices.         internationally qualified  a memorandum on enhancing      enhance independence of the     OAG.
accountant as Auditor     the independence of the OAG.    OAG.
General.
OAG appoints quality assurance                                OAG able to discharge
managers and retains a reputable                              its mandate at all levels.
international firm/s to assist in
improving audits in the
education, health and
water/sanitation sectors,
including districts.
Monitoring and      Lack of co-ordination in  MOFPED in collaboration    MOFPED, MOLG and relevant   Common M&E arrangements         Common M&E system
Evaluation (M&E)  M&E and proliferation    with OPM, OP and MOPS    line ministries harmonise work    across GOU and donors.         linked to performance.
of work plans and      has appointed a task force    plans and progress reporting
reporting formats.     from the existing poverty    required from local
monitoring network to      governments.
prepare an action plan to
streamline and strengthen
M&E.
PEAP goals not                                    Cabinet approves the national
adequately translated                             poverty monitoring strategy.
into intermediate
outcomes and service
delivery standards.
MOPS has disseminated      Basic service sectors translate  MOFPED adjusts resource      Clear interim progress
key findings of the baseline   findings of the survey into  allocations according to     indicators towards
service delivery survey.   service delivery standards for  performance.                  PEAP/PRSP goals.
performance assessment.
5



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIx: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECrWES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)
SUB-                          -                        ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVES/                                        . PRSCv I     _                                             PRSC   . e
ACTION            -          . ISSUE           A         1CHR 001            MARCH 2002                      MARCIIH 003                 OUTCOMES
B2: INCREASE TRANSPARENCY, PARTICIPATION AND REDUCE CORRUPTION
Transparency        Limited access to public  MOI in collaboration with    Cabinet approves principles of    MOI tables Access to    Improved access to
informnation to empower  MEI has reviewed the     access to government           Govemment Information Bill in   government information
citizens to demand     Official Secrets Act in light  information.               Parliarnent.                   to reduce opportunities
greater accountability.    of best practice regarding                                                            for corruption.
access to government
information.
MEI will have reviewed all anti-  Cabinet approves principles of
corruption legislation and     whistleblower protection
whistleblower protection.      legislation.
MOFPED has produced a    MOFPED prepares and approves  MOFPED fully implements the   Improved public
citizens' guide to the    a communication strategy.       communication strategy.        awareness on fiscal
budget process.                                                                          policy and the budget.
Accountability for     MOFPED and MOLG have   MOFPED, MOLG and line              Mandatory public notices have    Increased public
decentralised public   published, on a regular    ministries ensure that public  extended to the remaining basic   information on fiscal
spending is weak.      basis, transfers of        notices on transfers are posted in  service sectors.           transfers to empower
conditional grants to     health, water/sanitation and                                   citizens to demand
districts in the media.   agriculture at facility, district                              greater accountability
Public notices have been  and sub-county level,                                          from local
made mandatory in primary  respectively.                                                 governments.
schools.
Civil Society       Limited transparency    OPM and MOIA have         OPM, MOIA and the NGO           OPM and NGOs establish         A better operational
Participation       and accountability of   created a computerised     community mutually agree on    channels of feedback from civil   environment for GOU-
both NGO and           database on NGOs and       NGO policy and code of         society to monitor service      NGO partnership and
government service     faith-based organisation   conduct.                       delivery in districts and sub-  self-monitoring by
delivery entities.     with public access.                                       counties.                       NGOs.
6



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECrIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
S                                                      ACTIONS ANIN OUTPUT TARGETS                   _                                     ------
OBJECTIVES/ ___________                            PRSC I                      PRSC *                         PRSC mIi
ACTION                    ISSUE                MARCH 2001                   MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                  OUTCOMES
AREAS
District and sector plans  MOLG has taken the lead    Central and local government  MOLG completes a review of  Service delivery
do not adequately     in promoting a harmonised   adopt the harnonised framework  implementation.               responds better to user
reflect community      framework for participation   and initiate its implementation.                           preferences.
priorities, while      in service delivery.
participatory
approaches are
uncoordinated.
Detection,          Corrupt acts not      IGG has published its semi-  IGG proposes a stronger follow-   IGG reviews implementation.  More effective follow-
Investigation and    exposed and sanctioned   annual report for the first    up mechanism for its reports and                       up of corruption cases.
Prosecution of      effectively.           half of 2000/01.           GOU initiates its
Corruption Cases.                                                    implementation.
Minister of Ethics and    IGG ensures open citizen access                               Reduced opportunities
Integrity has gazetted and  to leader asset declarations.                               for corruption.
tabled Leadership Code    Leaders who fail to complete
Bill 2000 and Inspectorate  asset declarations are sanctioned,
of Government 2000 Bill   including disqualification from
in Parliament.            office.
MEI and donors have       IGG and MEI carry out the      IGG and MEI ensure that        Regular and cost-
initiated a process to    second integrity survey and    monitoring of corruption       efficient monitoring of
develop quantitative      disseminate results.           becomes part of harmonised     corruption.
monitoring indicators to                                 M&E.
assess progress in fighting
corruption.
Legal and Judicial   Weak capacity of the  Justice, law and order     JLOS develops a strategic plan    JLOS makes the sector-wide  Increased collaboration
Reform              criminal justice system    sector (JLOS) has adopted a  for criminal and commercial  approach and criminal justice  among agencies, more
to process cases       sector-wide approach to   justice reform, including      reform programme fully         effective detection,
effectively and        criminal and commercial    monitoring indicators.        operational.                   investigation and
efficiently.           justice reforms.                                                                         prosecution, and higher
public awareness.
Weak enforcement of    JLOS has developed a       JLOS implements the           JLOS improves industrial       A more effective
commercial contracts    commercial justice reform    commercial justice reform   dispute resolution, tax appeals    commercial court and
programme 2001-04.        programme, including           mechanism and land registries.   reduction in case
commercial court.                                            backlog.
7



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIx: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
SUB-                                                   ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS                     _ _
OBJECTIVYES/                                       PR.  P I                                                   PR_  _H %n       l I   _.6           -0 7
ACTlON                    ISIE                    AC 2001                    MARCH 2002                     MARCH'2003                  OUTCOM:E$S
GOU is currently       PRSCI does not include     PRSCII will include actions and   PRSCIII will include actions and
working to             actions and outputs under    outputs under the third      outputs under the third
operationalise its Plan    the third PEAP/PRSP pillar.  PEAP/PRSP pillar in the  PEAP/PRSP pillar in the
of Modernisation of                               following areas:              following areas:
Agriculture.                                      Agricultural research and      Agricultural research and
extension, access to rural finance  extension, access to rural finance
and markets, sustainable natural   and markets, sustainable natural
TCsource use and management,   resource use and management,
and private sector development.  and private sector development.
PSRC OBJECTIVE C: IMPROVE DELIVERY OF BASIC SERVICES
1 Overall outcomes (verification):
Cl: IMPROVE QUALITY OF EDUCATION                                      1. Universal primary education (annual data from education management infornmation system).
2. Ir.-ov ' Ica.i..g outcom.. in primr__ -y p nucainon (biannual l ational assessftnni of progress
in education).
Joint Government-                          Satisfactory               Satisfactory implementation of    Satisfactory implementation of    Better co-ordination of
Donor Education                            implementation of          undertakings agreed in education  undertakings agreed in education  education policies and
Sector Review                              undertakings agreed in     sector review in April 2001 and   sector review in April 2002 and   interventions.
the education sector      confirmed by October 2001      confirmed in October 2002
review of April 2000 was   review.                       review.
confirmed by October
2000 review.
8



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
SUB-                                                   ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS ___
OBJECTIVESI                                        PRSC I                      PRSC 11                        PRSC Im
ACTION                    ISSUE                 MARCH 2001                  MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                  OUTCOMES
AREAS                                                                                               _
Primary Education  The number of primary   MOPS, MOES and             MOES in collaboration with    All districts fill at least 95  Achievement of the
teachers is significantly   MOLG have launched a    MOPS, MOFPED, MOLG and    percent of their established     target for pupil-teacher
less than available    national recruitment       districts recruit, deploy and add   staffing ceiling.        ratio.
funding allows due to    campaign for 15,000 new    to the payroll at least 20,000
recruitment difficulties,  teachers.              additional teachers, given pupil-
particularly in remote                           teacher ratio target and attrition.
areas, and inefficient
administrative
procedures.
MOES prepares and begins to
implement an action plan to
upgrade skills of unqualified
teachers through TDMS.
MOES sets up a mechanism to
monitor the share of filled
positions and prepares and
implements an action plan to
increase the share of positions
filled in districts with
recruitment problems.
Cost-Efficiency     Cost-efficiency        MOES has finalised report   MOES begins to implement      MOES reviews implementation,  Increased cost-
measures needed to     on double shift and agreed    agreed cost-efficiency measures,  makes necessary amendments,    efficiency and lower
reach the targets within   with MOFPED on a set of   monitors them closely.      and provides regular progress  pupil: teacher ratio.
resource envelope.     recommendations to                                       reports to the sector review.
increase cost-efficiency,
including those that reduce
class size, for presentation
at April 2001 sector review.
Overall outcomes (verification):
C2: IMPROVE: QUALITY OF HEALTH CARE                                   1. Increased satisfaction with health care services (annual service delivery surveys and periodic
C.: IMPROVE QUALITY OF                                             national poverty assessment).
2. Increased access and usage of health care services (annual service delivery surveys).
Joint Government-                          Satisfactory               Satisfactory implementation of    Satisfactory implementation of    Satisfactory
Donor Health                               implementation of          undertakings agreed in health  undertakings agreed in health  implementation of the
Sector Review                              undertakings agreed in the  sector review in April 2001 and   sector review in April 2002 and   health strategic plan
joint health sector review o  confirmed by October 2001  confirmed by October 2002      against agreed
April 2000 was confirmed   review.                       review.                        monitoring indicators.
by October 2000 review.
9



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)I
SUB-               ____________                      ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS                                                 _        __.
OBJECTTIVES/                    .                 PRSC I                     PRSC U                        PRSC I,_
ACTION                    ISSUE               MARCH 2001                  MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                OUTCOMES
AREAS
Health Care        Financing of the health   Funding for PNFP providers MOH approves a health care  MOH and PNFP sign a         Financing of the health
Financing          sector has been donor    has doubled in 2000/01  financing strategy, including a    memorandum of understanding    sector rationalised.
driven. In future donor   budget.               strategy and action plan for public on financing of health service
funds will be                                   financing of health care provision  provision.
increasingly channelled                         by PNFP sector.
through the GOU
budget.                                                                                    _
MOH covers at least 50% of
estimated financing
requirements for the central
procurement of essential drugs,
condoms, vaccines,
contraceptives and supplies in
the 2002/03 budget.
Procurement        MOH has relied on      MOH has made interim      MOH contract committee and    Pharmaceutical section of the  MOH able to procure at
Capacity and       donor procurement      procurement               procurement unit fully        MOH defined, upgraded and     least 50% of large ticket
Policy             modalities. MOH needs  arrangements in           operational.                  fully operational.            items reflected in the
to build its own      accordance with                                                                       procurement plan.
procurement capacity.    procurement regulations.
MOH has submitted health   MOH approves and makes      MOH updates and adopts         80% of health facilities
sector procurement plan for  available an implementation  regulatory framework for the  experiencing no stock
2000/01 to MOFPED.       plan for the national drug policy   pharmaceutical sector.   outs of chloroquine,
and strategic plan on                                       ORS, co-trimoxazole
pharmaceuticals.                                            and measles vaccine.
MOH has completed baselin  MOH develops procurement
survey under drug        guidelines for drugs and supplies
management initiative.   for the health sector.
Human Resources   Only 40% of posts in    MOH has made proposals fo MOH in collaboration with     MOH in collaboration with     60% of facilities
health facilities are filled  pay reform in the health  MOES and MOPS prepare and    MOES and MOPS prepare and    achieve minimum
with qualified staff.  sector in its 2001/02 budget  approve a human resource policy  approve a plan to implement the   staffing norms with
submission.              for health sector, including  human resource policy for health  qualified staff.
harmonisation of in-service   sector.
training.
10



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRLX: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)I
SUB-.                                                   ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBJECTIVES/                                         PRSC I                      PRSC II                       PRSC m
ACTION                    ISSUE                 MARCH 2001                  MARCH 2002                     MARCH 2003                  OUTCOMES
AREAS
Two training schools have    MOH and MOES agree on
begun training of         management and support to
comprehensive enrolled    health training schools,
nurses.                   including PNFP schools.
Health              Many health facilities are MOH completed mapping of MOH has an approved National                               Implementation of the
Infrastructure     run down and lack       health facilities.         Health Infrastructure                                        National Health
equipment. There is need                         Development and maintenance                                   Infrastructure
to ensure that                                    Plan.                                                        Development and
rehabilitation and new                                                                                         Maintenance Plan is
constructions are based                                                                                        based on population and
on population and                                                                                              rational use of
rational use of resources.                                                                                     resources.
Overall outcomes (verification):
C3: IMPROVE ACCESS AND EQUITY IN WATER AND                            1. Increased satisfaction with WSS services (annual service delivery surveys and periodic
SANITATION                                                            participatory poverty assessments).
2. Increased access and usage of WSS services (annual service delivery surveys and household
surveys).
Access to Rural     Planning and           GOU has established an     GOU and donors complete the    Key stakeholders endorse WSS    Framework for WSS
Water Supply and   management systems in  inter-mninisterial comrnittee   first joint WSS sector review  sector-wide approach.      sector-wide approach
Sanitation (WSS)    WSS function poorly    to develop objectives and    and agree on co-ordinated                                   operational.
for decentralised service  principles for a sector-wide   support.
delivery.              approach in WSS.
At least half of districts  DWD finalises district WSS   All districts have set up fully  DWSTs integrated into
have set up a fully staffed   operational manual and     staffed and trained DWSTs with   district establishment.
district water and        implementation guidelines.     support from DWD.
sanitation teams (DWST)
with support from DWD.
MOWLE/DWD completes re-    DWD completes an external
organisation and establishes   institutional and service delivery
fully staffed technical support    audit of all DWSTs.
units (TSU).
11



SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIx: GOVERNMENT'S REFORM STRATEGIES (OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS)
AND PROGRESS INDICATORS (OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS)'
SUB-                                                    ACTIONS AND OUTPUT TARGETS
OBIECTIVESI                                         PRSC I        _              PRSC I                         PRSC  m               _
ACTION                     ISSUE                MARCH 2001                    MARCH 2002                     MARCH1`2003                 OUTCOMES
AREAS.
WSS services are       MOWLE/DWD has              MOWLE/DWD develop a             MOWLE/DWD initiate support   Private sector based
unsustainable.         initiated review of        nation-wide maintenance         program to private sector in   maintenance strategy
maintenance and cost       strategy foT WSS facilities.   maintenance services            and cost recovery
recovery arrangements for                                                                policy operational in
WSS facilities.                                                                          most districts.
Low utilisation of WSS   MOWLE and MOH have    MOWLE and/or MOH prepare a  MOWLE/DWD and MOH/EHD   Improved utilisation of
services and poor      agreed on institutional    strategy for national hygiene   implement training program for   WSS services and
hygiene.               responsibilities for       promotion, sanitation and       community extension workers in  hygiene.
sanitation.               communication.                  districts and sub-counties.
Access to WSS in    Inappropriate           MOWLE/DWD adopts           MOWLE/DWD adopts a long-    MOWLE/DWD reviews the             Improved management
Small Towns         management framework  interim management           term management strategy for   management strategy.           framework for small
for sustainable WSS    strategy for small town    small town WSS.                                                town WSS.
services.              WSS.
Access to WSS in    Inadequate regulatory   National Water and         MOWLE and MOFPED initiate   MOFPED and MOWLE                   Transitional
Urban Areas         framework for           Sewerage Corporation       selection of private operator for   establish an asset-holding  arrangements and
improved commercial    (NWSC) has signed a        NWSC and prepare legal          authority, privatise WSS       regulatory framework
operations.            performance contract with   framework.                     operations and appoint regulator.  for private sector
MOFPED and MOWLE.                                                                        participation in place.
MOWLE finalises urban WSS      MOWLE completes detailed
policy framework and           designs of urban WSS systems,
investment program             including sewerage master plan
for Kampala and other large
towns.
WSS services are not   MOFPED has settled Ush   MOFPED settles the remaining    MOWLE and MOFPED resolve   NWSC operations on
fmnancially sustainable.   5 billion debt owed by  debt owed to NWSC.             NWSC long-term debt.           strong financial footing
GOU agencies to NWSC.                                                                    for transfer to private
sector management.
NWSC has simplified        NWSC simplifies water tariff
connection policy.         structure and reviews tariffs
annually to allow for inflation.
12



SCHEDULE 3: UGANDA PRSC: QUANTITATIVE MONITORING INDICATORS AND OUTCOME TARGETS
SU-.                        rPRSC I                         PRSC 11                        PRSC 1II
OBJECTIVES/                                                                                                                 OUTCOMES
ACTION                    MARCH 2001                     MARCH 2002                      MARCH 2003
AREAS
Cl: Improve quality of education
Quantitative      Pupil-teacher ratio 63:1.       Pupil-teacher ratio 54:1.      Pupil-teacher ratio 48:1.       1. Universal primary education (annual
Targets           Pupil-textbook ratio 6: 1.      Pupil-textbook ratio 4:1.      Pupil-textbook ratio 3:1.       data from education management
Pupil-classroom ratio 121:1.   Pupil-classroom ratio 104:1.    Pupil-classroom ratio 92: 1.   information system).
P7 net enrollment 14%.         P7 net enrollment 16%.          P7 net enrollment 20%.         2. Improved learning outcomes in
primary education (biannual national
assessment of progress in education).
C2: Improve quality of health care
Quantitative      Joint GOU-donor sector review has MOH makes data on monitoring                                 1. Increased satisfaction with health care
Targets           agreed on baseline and means of   indicators available for sector                              services (annual service delivery surveys
verification for selected monitoring reviews on a regular basis.                              and periodic national poverty
indicators.                                                                                   assessment).
2. Increased access and usage of health
2,500 EPI outreach sites were made 50% of health sub districts have    65% of infants receive DPT3  care services (annual service delivery
operational.                   in post medical officers       vaccination (41% in 1999/00).   surveys).
MOH has trained 1,300 nurse    (excluding existing hospitals).
assistants.                                                    80% of health sub districts have
in post medical officers
(excluding existing hospitals).
C3: Improve access and equity in water and sanitation
Quantitative       1,500 new water supplies serving   3,500 new water systems serving   3,700 new water systems, serving  Increased access to safe water and
Targets for Rural  350,000 people.                820,000 people.                950,000 people.                 sanitation from 50% to 55%.
WSS               450 new public, school, and     900 new public, school, and    900 new public, school and      80% WSS systems functioning.
institutional sanitation systems.    institutional sanitation systems.    institutional sanitation systems.    Value for money: average investment
cost per beneficiary $50.
Quantitative      MOWLE/DWD has gazetted 15    MOWLE/DWI) gazettes 30 urban  DWD gazettes the remaining 20    All small towns systems under private
Targets for Small  urban WSS authorities and has  WSS authorities and appoints   urban WSS authorities and       sector management contracts.
Towns WSS         initiated the appointment of    private sector management      appoints private sector
private sector contractors to  contractors to manage them.     management contractors to
manage the authorities.                                        manage them.
Quantitative      3,100 new connections (of which   6,300 new connections (of 1,800    7,000 new connections (of which   Increased access to safe water and
Targets for       930 connections for poor        connections for poor households).  2,100 connections for poor  sanitation from 50% to 65%.
Urban WSS         households).                    700 new sewerage connections.    households).                  Value for money: average investment
75 new sewerage connections.   14 NWSC staff/1000 connections.  700 new sewerage connections.    cost per beneficiary $150.
24 NWSC staffl1000 connections.  22% intemal cash generation to    11 NWSC staff/I000 connections.
5% internal cash generation to  capital investments.          21% internal cash generation to
capital investments.                                         I capital investrnents.






UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Annexes
Annexes:
Annex 1:      Institutional Reform Program
Annex 2:       Environmental and Social Analysis
Annex 3:       Uganda - At a Glance
Annex 4:       Uganda - Social Indicators
Annex 5:       Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 6:       Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 7:       Uganda - Balance of Payments
Annex 8:       Uganda - Status of Bank Group Operations






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 23
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
This annex provides background for the three institutional reform areas that PRSC-I as well as
subsequent PRSCs will focus on: (1) efficient and equitable use of public resources, (2) cross-
cutting public sector reforms, and (3) sector-specific reforms, initially in education, health and
water and sanitation.  The institutional reform areas are presented in the context of the
PEAP/PRSP pillars.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR I: FRAMEWORK FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH AND TRANSFORMATION
Efficient and Equitable Use of Public Resources
1.    While the PRSC focuses on the expenditure side of the budget, it takes place within a
broader macroeconomic framework agreed on with donors, and a strategic vision set out in the
PEAP/PRSP. This vision includes a longer-term expenditure framework to assess the financial
sustainability of the spending programs required to achieve the PEAP/PRSP targets. The three-
year macroeconomic program agreed on with donors incorporates assumptions of a broadly flat
revenue-to-GDP ratio of about 11 percent of GDP. Adherence to this program ensures that
external budget support will not substitute for reduced tax effort by Government. Government is
committed to raising the tax-GDP ratio in the medium to long term, but in order to avoid
unrealistic budgeting has prudently decided not to build in assumed revenue improvements from
strengthening of tax administration until there is evidence of the revenue response.
2.    Medium Term Budget Framework. Over the last years, budgeting processes have been
significantly strengthened and given a longer-term focus through use of a Medium Term Budget
Framework (MTBF). The MTBF provides a coherent context for relating expected resource
availability (both domestic and foreign) to broad strategic spending choices (recurrent
expenditures, development expenditures and levels of domestic financing). Within the MTBF the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) has served as Government's instrument for
shifting spending towards poverty sensitive areas identified under the Poverty Action Fund
(PAF). The MTEF sets out Government's spending plans over the three-year period by
budgetary line item and is the basis for prioritizing Government expenditures. PAF spending is
fully integrated within the MTEF. The scope of the PAF has been steadily increased since its
inception in 1998/99; at present the PAF incorporates all the major poverty sensitive expenditures
identified under the Poverty Eradication Action Plan.'
' A number of high-priority Government programs (notably the main roads program) are not counted as spending under
the PAF as they are not directly identified under the Poverty Eradication Action Plan as critical for the poor. As a
general rule, to be considered a PAF program, the govemment activity must either directly increase the incomes of the
poor or the quality of their life or contribute to govemance and security services directly associated with improving the
conditions of the poor.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 23
3.     Since 1997/98, an increasing share of total public spending has been allocated to poverty
reducing activities. As can be seen in Annex Table 1.1, since 1997/98 spending on ?AF
programs has increased from 17.2 percent of total government expenditures to 24.5 percent in
1999/00. The 2000/01 budget continues this trend. PAF spending is expected to remain at about
one-third of all government expenditure over the next three years. Increased spending on PAF
programs has accounted for over half of the total increase in government spending betwveen
1997/98 and 2000/01.
4.     There has also been a marked improvement in budget execution in recent years. This was
particularly marked in 1999/00 when, despite adverse shocks to the terms of trade, there was a far
2
closer correspondence between sectoral budgets and outturns than in previous years.
5.     Preliminary evidence through the first half of the financial year indicates that the
improved budgetary performance is being maintained in 2000/01. Even though revenues are
slightly below envisioned levels, the shortfall is modest, on the order of 5 percent of projected
receipts. Much of the shortfall can be explained by the impact of the sharper than anticipated
depreciation of the Ugandan Shilling on nontradable domestic production. Expenditures through
the first half of the year are consistent with budgeted levels. In particular, through the first half of
the year, defense spending was in line with the total of USh 191 billion contained in the 2000/01
budget. Spending on PAF programs through the first half of the year was USh 192 billion, or 41
percent of the year's budgeted level. However, PAF spending in the first half of the year is
generally slow, reflecting the need to develop work plans for PAF expenditures at district levels.
In addition, continued problems in accessing the payroll have led to PAF spending shortfalls in
the areas of agricultural extension, primary education, and primary health care. As will be
discussed later, Government is currently in the process of improving payroll access. It should be
noted that any savings resulting from shortfalls in PAF spending this year will be carried over to
the following financial year, permitting the programming of higher PAF spending that year.
6.     Budget preparation process. Based on the envisioned resource levels, sectors and
districts are given three-year spending ceilings within which to j prepare their expenditure
proposals to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED).3 These
proposals are the basis for Cabinet decisions on budget allocations. This process (leading to the
Budget Framework Paper or BFP) is currently in train for the period 2001/02-2003/04.
7.     Government has used the BFP to promote a number of budgeting initiatives. Most
notably, the process of budget preparation has been opened up to a wide range of stakeholders.
Donors and other stakeholders participate in the activities of the sector and district working
groups preparing expenditure proposals for the BFP. The drafts of the sector working group
reports are discussed with stakeholders in November/December before the final BFP is presented
to donors and other stakeholders prior to completion of the annual budget submission. Last year,
key sector working groups (education, health and water and sanitation) were asked to include in
their sector submissions specific output and/or outcome measures as a first step to improving the
outcome-orientation of the budget. This process has been carried forward in the current BFP
2 "The Budget and Medium-Term Expenditures in Uganda: Setting a Wider Context" by David L. Bevan and Geremia
Palomba. A background paper for the Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
January 2001.
3The spending ceilings include envisioned spending on PAF programs, ensuring the full integration of the PAF into the
budget programming.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 23
Annex Table 1.1 Medium Term Budget Framework
(USh billion)
1997/98    1998/99    1999/00    2000/01    2001/02    2002/03    2003/04
Revenue and grants                  1,197       1,357.2    1,594.4    1,898.3    2084.4      2324.4    2,509
Revenue                              799.5      950.2     1010       1,140.9    1,258      1,430      1,600
URA                                 797.2      935.2      979       1,111.4    1,238      1,410      1,580
Other                                 2.3        15        31          29.5       20         20         20
Grants                               397.5      407        584.4      757.4      826.4       894.4      909
Budget support                       193.4      161.8      254.6      392.5      438        488        499
Project                             204.1      245.2       329.8      364.9      388.4      406.4      410
Expenditure                         1,230.4    1,456.6    1,754.5    2,123.5    2,352.8    2,571.5    2,771.2
Recurrent                            729.1      863.7      977.3    1,144.3    1,285.2    1,429.5    1,572.1
Wages and salaries                  255.8      341.2       373.9      468        510.7      554.5      609.3
o/wPAF wages                        90.6       102.4      103.2      166.1      182.8      207.8      228.4
Interest payments                    75.9       68.8        95.4      107.1      133.8      146.6      157.4
PAF (nonwage)                        32.2       64.2        80.7      129.6      153        203        232
Statutory                            61.5       35.3       74.3        78.5       92.1       75.9       83.4
Other                               303.7      354.2       353        361.1      395.6      449.5      490
Development                          501.3      592.9      777.2      979.2    1,067.6      1142      1,199.1
Extemal                             408.6      445.9      549.6       608.2      647.3      677.4      683
Domestic                             92.7       147        227.6      371        420.3      464.6      516.1
o/wPAF                               18.7       65.8      111.1      168.3      195.5      219.8       252.3
Overall deficit (excluding grants)   -430.9    -506.4    -744.5    -982.6   -1,094.8   -1,141.5   -1,171.2
Overall deficit (including grants)    -33.4      -99.4    -160.1      -225.2    -268.4    -247.1    -262.2
33.3       99.5      160.1      225.2      268.4      247.1      262.2
Financing
Extemal                              176.9      234.8      158.5      406.7      491.9      447.0       448.0
Disbursement                        254.8      335.8      278.5       535.9      636.9      617.0      635.0
Budget support                       50.5       90.6       58.7      292.6      378         346.0      362.0
Project support                     204.3      245.2      219.8      243.3      258.9      271.0       273.0
Amortization                        -77.9    -101.0    -120.0    -129.2         -145       -170.0    -187.0
Domestic                            -143.6    -135.3         1.6    -181.5    -223.5       -199.9    -185.8
Bank financing                      -67.1        0.6       157.6     -87.5      -120.0      -38.0      -75.0
Domestic arrears                    -47.4    -116.0    -139.7    -108.3          -60.0      -50.0      -30.0
As percentage
Revenue and grants                    100%       100%       100%       100%       100%        100%       100%
% of Total Revenue and Grants
Revenue                               66.8       70.0       63.3       60.1       60.4        61.5       63.8
URA                                  66.6       68.9       61.4       58.5       59.4        60.7       63.0
Other                                 0.2         1.1        1.9        1.6        1.0        0.9        0.8
Grants                                33.2       30.0       36.7       39.9       39.6        38.5       36.2
Budget support                        16.2       11.9       16.0       20.7       21.0       21.0       19.9
Project                               17.1       18.1       20.7       19.2       18.6       17.5       16.3
Expenditure                           100%       100%       100%       100%       100%        100%       100%
% of Total Expenditure
Recurrent                             59.3       59.3       55.7       53.9       54.6        55.6       56.7
Wages and salaries                   20.8       23.4        21.3       22.0       21.7       21.6       22.0
o/w PAF wages                        7.4        7.0         5.9        7.8        7.8        8.1        8.2
Interest payments                     6.2        4.7         5.4        5.0        5.7        5.7        5.7
PAF (nonwage)                         2.6        4.4         4.6        6.1        6.5        7.9        8.4
Statutory                             5.0        2.4        4.2         3.5        3.9        3.0        3.0
Other                                24.7       24.3        20.1       17.0       16.8       17.5       17.7
Development                           40.7       40.7       44.3       46.1       45.4        44.4       43.3
Extemal                              33.2        30.6       31.3       28.6       27.5       26.3       24.6
Domestic                              7.5        10.1       13.0       17.5       17.9       18.1       18.6
o/w PAF                              1.5        4.5        6.3        7.9        8.3         8.5        9.1
Note: The framework above is the framework utilized by Govemment. The format differs somewhat from the fiscal framework
presentation used by the International Monetary Fund in its PROF program. The MTBF presented for 2001/02-2003/04 is the
one presented by Govemment at the October 2000 budget workshop and is the basis for preparation of the MTEF for this same
period.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 23
preparations. As part of this year's BFP preparations, the education, and health and roads sector
working groups were asked to include in their submissions a discussion of the impact of pay
reform on their sector and particularly its impact on service delivery. lTo this end, these sector
working groups were encouraged to suggest reallocations between wage and nonwage
expenditures. Also, estimates of donor-financed development spending were included in the
spending ceilings submitted to sector working groups for this year's exercise. At present, this is
primarily for the information of the sector working groups, providing guidance on the counterpart
funding requirements. Over the medium term, it is envisioned that sector working groups will
begin the process of programming donor-financed development expenditures.
8.    Intergovernmental transfers. One of the negative aspects of the increase in PAF-
related spending has been the proliferation of the number of conditional grants. Virtually all of
the recurrent spending financed under the PAF is managed at local government levels. Given
capacity weaknesses at these levels, the resources are transferred to local authorities as
conditional grants where the end use of the funds transferred is explicitly identified. Currently,
there are 27 conditional grants managed by local governments, each requiring its own separate
accounting procedures. This has significantly increased the costs at local government levels in
administering and accounting for these grants as well as giving rise to a balkanization of local
governments' budgets.
9.    Government has commissioned a review of the current fiscal transfer system, with a view
to streamlining these processes. A report has been prepared proposing a. sharp reduction in the
number of transfer mechanisms. Under this proposal, a maximum of three fiscal transfer
mechanisms would be made: one conditional grant covering all recurrent expenditures; one
conditional grant (based on the existing district development grant under the Local Govermnent
Development Project, LDGP) for development expenditures; and a pilot program conditional
grant to permit testing of innovative programs at local government levels. Under this system,
accountability would be ensured by requiring agreement ex ante on the budgeted expenditures to
be financed and the linking of quarterly releases to submissions showing actual budgetary
execution and accounting for all funds released. Government is currently reviewing this proposal
and is expected to make a decision on the way forward by the end of fiscal year 2000/01,
enabling implementation of a more streamlined system over the medium term.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR H: ENSURING GOOD GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY
Improve Management Systems and Practices in the Public Sector
10.   Pay strategy and public service management. Public service employment and pay
reform have been key features of Govemment's comprehensive Public Service Reform Program
that was launched in the first half of the 1990s. The unprecedented success of Govemment's
rightsizing initiative is well documented. The size of the public service was reduced by more
than 50 percent between 1992 and 1997 (from about 320,000 to 147,000). Also, pay levels for
public servants were considerably raised (on average tenfold in real terms) from abysmally low
levels: minimum basic salary was equivalent to US$4 in 1992 and about US$40 in 1997.
Govemment also embarked on enhancing the transparency and efficiency of the compensation
system. For example, Government monetized nonsalary benefits and consolidated these together
with most allowances into a single and transparent salary structure.
11.   However, the past gains in public service pay reform have not been sustained, and, in the
past three years, some have been reversed. The wage bill ceiling provided in the MTEF in the



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 23
past three years has been barely adequate to raise salaries to compensate for inflation. Public
service pay levels also remain low relative to the cost of living and in comparison to those in the
private sector. Public service pay is generally about 30-50 percent of market rates. This problem
is more pronounced for the mid-level professionals and senior administrative and technical staff.
Consequently, the public service cannot readily recruit and retain skilled technicians and
professionals. Also, morale and integrity standards in the service remain too low to sustain
effective and efficient delivery of public services.
12.   Distortions and inequities also undermine the morale, discipline, and integrity of a
majority of public servants in the compensation system. First, selective salary rises or allowances
are awarded to some occupational groups as result of political or industrial pressure. Second,
nontask allowances are paid out without transparency, and on ad hoc and discriminatory basis.
Third, public servants engaged by development partners in project implementation units receive
higher pay. Consequently, the capacity of the public service continues to be eroded, and
performance remains below the potential.
13.   It is imperative that Government designs and implements a public service pay reform so
that it can recruit, retain and motivate a critical mass of technically and professionally skilled
public servants. Government needs a cadre of knowledgeable and motivated technocrats to
modernize the economy and to ensure that the current tempo of economic growth is sustained
through prudent policy formulation and efficient and effective management to create an enabling
environment for private sector development. The evolving globalization of commerce and the
expanding modern private sector particularly pose serious management challenges in the coming
years. Furthermore, low pay and uncertainty about long-term earnings and post-employment
security are important factors in the loss of integrity and unethical conduct by public servants.
Therefore, as reflected in the recently launched national anti-corruption strategy and action plan,
enhancing public service pay is one of the key interventions to be taken by Government.
14.   Lack of budgetary resources, however, constrains public service pay reform, at least in
the medium term. The constraint is exacerbated by the need to increase the numbers of front-line
workers in the high-priority sectors, that is, in education, health, agricultural extension, and water
and sanitation. Over the next three years, about 60,000 new employees (equivalent to about a
third of the current total public service numbers) will be recruited to deliver services in these
areas.
15.   However, the overall growth in public service employment may be moderated in the
medium term through a net reduction in the size of the current establishment. This will involve
two steps planned by Government. First, a review of all the existing vacancies will be undertaken
with a view to restricting recruitment to the most critical positions. Second, a comprehensive
review of the structures and staffing levels in the local government councils and other public
agencies. The net reductions arising from these measures will be relatively modest, though.
They may not exceed 2.5 percent of the current total establishment. As a result, public service
employment is projected to rise to about 240,000 in five year's time. This level of employment
growth will put severe pressure on the budgeted ceiling of the wage bill in the medium term.
16.   Consequently, Government has worked towards a medium-term pay reform policy that is
consistent with the budgetary constraints. The objectives of the reform are to (i) restore and
preserve the purchasing power of salary levels for all public officers; (ii) eliminate distortions
arising from select pay and awards and nontask allowances; (iii) achieve market benchmarked
salary targets for critical skills; and (iv) establish a sustainable retirement benefits scheme. To



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 23
achieve the priority policy objectives described above, Government will: (i) curtail employment
growth in low-priority sectors; (ii) phase-out public servants paid by development partners in
project implementation units; and (iii) increase the wage bill to support implementation of the
priority medium-term policy targets.
17.   In the long term, public service pay reform policy goals are underpinned by the pursuit of
the vision of a modern, efficient and effective public service. The policy goals of the long-term
pay reform include (i) enhancing public service salaries, pension and other compensation benefits
to levels that enable Government to recruit and retain the best qualified and skilled Ugandans to
its service; (ii) making the public service a market leader in the remuneration of unskilled and
semiskilled labor through the provision of minimum living wage; (iii) making the public service
compensation system and practices transparent and equitable; and (iv) introducing elements of
performance-based pay.
18.   The strategies and interventions for public service employment and pay reform will be
within the broad framework of the ongoing public service reform program. This program
envisions the transformation of the public service to a results-oriented meritocracy that will
ensure efficient and effective delivery of quality public services. A. central thrust of the
program's strategy is to introduce a results-oriented management culture in the public service.
The initial steps have been taken with introduction of output-oriented planning, budgeting and
evaluation by all public agencies and objective and open performance appraisal of personnel.
Meanwhile, Government has scheduled an independent and thorough evaluation of the current
program before mid-2001 to improve its impact in the future.
19.   In addition to low pay, a range of constraints within districts, at the center, and center-
district relationships currently hinders effective deployment, retention and. management of front-
line government personnel in the health, education and water sectors (that is, teachers, nursing
aides/assistants and water specialists/engineers).4 Ineffective management of human resources on
the frontlines has a deleterious impact on sector performance by hindering the access to and usage
and quality of public services.
20.    As part of the PRSC preparation, a survey of public officials on district personnel
management was carried out in August 2000 in ten randomly selected districts. The results of
this survey were supplemented with results from another facility-level survey carried out in the
spring 2000 in primary schools and health facilities by the University of Maryland.
21.   The survey results indicate that effective human resource management in health,
education and water is constrained by (i) the top-down establishment control; (ii) weak district-
level personnel functions; (iii) inefficient payroll management; and (iv) inadequate systems for
evaluating and disciplining staff. In particular, the survey results show that front-line workers
experience excessive delays in accessing the government payroll. Nearly all those interviewed
reported at least some delays in accessing the teachers' payroll within the past 12 months. The
problem was less severe for nursing aides/assistants and water specialists, Nvith 56 and 47 percent
reporting delays, respectively. Data collected from primary schools and health facilities in the
same sample districts confirmed these results. Eighty-two percent of primaiy schools and 54
4 The job titles of front-line water specialists vary widely across districts.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 23
Annex Table 1.2: Average Length of Time for a New Worker to Access the Payroll
(in months)
District                Primary school              Health facility
Apac                                   8.9                          5.6
Bushenyi                              15.8                         3.2
Kurni                                 13.1                         2.8
Lira                                   4.9                         6.6
Luwero                                10.3                         5.7
Masaka                                 5.9                          8.3
Ntungamo                              10.2                         3.6
Pallisa                                9.3                         4.2
Rakai                                  4.8                         2.7
Source: Personnel Management Survey, August 2000
percent of health facilities interviewed stated that there have been delays of more than one month
in getting a new teacher or health worker on a payroll. The length of delays varies across sectors
and districts, as Annex Table 1.2 reveals. The health facilities indicated that the delays vary
between three and seven months, whereas the delays in primary schools range between six and
sixteen months.
22.   The survey also found that causes for delay differ across sectors. For teachers, the major
bottlenecks were in processing pay change reports (PCRs) within districts and at the center. For
nursing aides/assistants, delays were more likely to result from errors in filling out PCRs. That
payroll management delays are apparently front-loaded in health (as opposed to education) is
explained in part by the fact that PCR batching and validation is undertaken at the district-level
for most nursing assistants/aides. Therefore, the issue of central bottlenecks did not arise, as it
did for teachers.
23.   An interministerial task force has investigated the delays in payroll access and
recommended various actions such as streamlining the batching and validation of PCRs,
improving the capacity of Uganda Computer Services and eventually decentralizing the payroll.
24.    Procurement reform. The existing public procurement system in Uganda is inadequate
to address the demands of a liberalized economy modeled on the principles of economy,
efficiency and transparency. Currently, the risk of corruption in public procurement is high given
the value of goods and services procured by Government, the strong interest of the business
sector in winning government contracts, and the authority given to government officials to award
contracts. Unsurprisingly, over 90 percent of the complaints received by the Inspector General of
Government (IGG) are procurement-related.
25.   While existing procurement structures, policies, and procedures are weak, the main
problem is the inefficient implementation and enforcement of rules and regulations and
inadequate monitoring. In addition, some of the current sanctions are inadequate. Therefore,
there is an urgent need for Government to strengthen the existing procurement system, especially
its enforcement.
26.   In 1997, Government established a task force to review the current procurement system at
the central government level and propose reforms that will ensure maximum transparency,
economy and efficiency in public procurement. The task force consisted of government
representatives, the private sector and the donor community and was assisted by consultants from



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 23
the Intemational Trade Center (ITC). The task force produced its report in 1999, and the Cabinet
approved it in 2000, with an amendment to the proposed institutional reforms. This work was
supplemented by the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) that was prepared in the
context of the PRSC. The CPAR expanded the review to local government levels and analyzed
the country's public sector procurement structure, including the existing legal framework,
organizational responsibilities and capabilities, and present procedures and practices, including
how these may differ from the formal rules and procedures. Implementation of the proposed
reforms is in progress.
27.   The task force report and CPAR identified fundamental weaknesses in the existing
procurement system that makes it susceptible to inefficiency and corruption in the following
areas: legal and regulatory framework, procedures and practices, organization, and resources.
28.   The problem is not the lack of legal and regulatory instrurnents for controlling
procurement, but that these instruments are diffused over a number of laws with no mechanism to
coordinate their systematic application. The Public Finance (Tender Board) Regulations (CTB
Regulations) issued under the Public Finance Act 1977 control procurement at the central and
local government levels. Procurement is also controlled using a number of other laws, including
the Government Central Purchasing Corporation statue 1990, the NRA Statute 1992, the
Leadership Code of Ethics 1992, the Police Statute 1994, the Local Government Financial and
Accounting Regulations 1998 (Part IX), and the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act
1998.
29.   The CTB Regulations and the Local Tender Board Regulations are the main
governmental tools for fiscal control and discipline at ministries, departments, parastatals, and the
local government level, respectively. However, these do not regulate the actual procurement
process from the point of view of economy, efficiency, competition, and btansparency. Instead,
they are an intemal set of rules for financial control of the administration concerning composition
of Tender Boards and the limits of their jurisdiction, and regulations concerning the actual
procurement process. As these are not laws or acts but administrative documents, they could be
amended by the Minister of Finance and local governments without regard to fundamental rights
of the suppliers/contractors. In addition, these regulations lack enforcement and monitoring
provisions. The present system also lacks credible compliant procedures.  Suppliers and
contractors are discouraged from lodging complaints and therefore violation of procurement rules
and regulations can go unchecked, resulting in erosion of public confidence in the system.
30.   A number of reform actions have been proposed to improve the current weak legal and
regulatory framework: enactment of a procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model law;
establishment of an autonomous national procurement policy body and consequent abolition of
the Central Tender Board; establishment of contract committees in ministries and parastatals with
full authority to undertake the procurement of goods, works and services required to meet their
operational needs with funds appropriated to them; and establishment of procurement units in
ministries and parastatals.
31.   Five main areas need to be strengthened to improve the transparency and efficiency of the
procurement system: procurement planning, standard bidding documents,, evaluation criteria,
record keeping and contract management. Currently, the system does not require preparation of
procurement plans. While inefficiency may be a contributing factor, lack of planning, in many
cases, is deliberate in order to create the preconditions for ad hoc or unwarranted emergency
procurement. Procurement planning is a key instrument for financial planming and should be



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 23
linked to the budgeting process. The lack of standard procurement documents also contributes to
the nontransparency and inefficiency of the system. Standard documents are necessary to ensure
that the information in bidding documents and requests for proposals is known to all stakeholders
in the procurement process. Efficiency, economy and transparency are promoted through open
competition. To this end the Local Govemment Tender Regulations need to be revised to limit
the use of selective and restricted tendering methods, which are widely prescribed in these
regulations. These regulations also prescribe the use of merit point evaluation criterion for goods
and works that could be prone to subjectivity and hence nontransparency. The current CTB and
Local Govemment Tender Regulations also lack provisions for proper contract management and
record keeping.
32.   To address weaknesses in procurement procedures and practices, Govemment has
prepared new procurements regulations. In addition, the following recommendations in the
CPAR are proposed: ministries, agencies and parastatals should prepare procurement plans as
part of budget proposals; standard bidding documents should be prepared for goods, works and
services; limitations should be imposed on the use of restricted tendering and the short-listing
process should be fair when restricted tendering is used; a handbook for monitoring services,
goods and works should be developed; and a review of the effectiveness of the current
procurement filing system in all public entities should be undertaken to ensure transparency and
accountability according to intemational best practice.
33.   Procurement decisions are now made by ministries, departments, and tender boards
(Central Tender Board (CTB), Parastatal Tender Boards, Police Tender Board, Military Tender
Board and District Tender Boards). These boards have the responsibility for processing
procurement of goods, works and services. As mentioned above, the regulations that set up the
CTB under the 1977 Finance Act are, however, incomplete and outdated. The CTB also lacks
full autonomy and some disciplines, such as engineering, are not represented in the Board.
Parastatal and ministerial Tender Boards are prone to conflict of interest due to inadequate
separation of roles in the composition of the boards because the Act does not clearly define the
structure. The District Tender Boards suffer from excessive political interference, conflict of
interest, and lack procurement skills and unclear coordinating mechanism with CTB.
34.   The organizational changes being proposed in the legal and regulatory framework will
address the current organizational problems of the CTB and the Local Govemment Tender
Boards. Establishment of the national regulatory body will provide the necessary oversight for
public procurement in Uganda. Establishment of contract committees and procurement units in
ministries, departments, and agencies will provide the required autonomy and accountability that
is currently lacking in the regulations.
35.   In Uganda, the procurement profession is not held in high esteem. The profession has
been relegated and procurement functions have been taken over by administrative officers. There
is an acute shortage of qualified and well-trained staff in public procurement in ministries,
departments, parastatals, and local govemments. The experience in various agencies has been
that there are a few capable, qualified and experienced professionals, mostly at the top level,
while the rest of the staff has below average capabilities.
36.   It will take Govemment sometime to build the necessary procurement capacity in the
public sector. In the meantime, Govemment will employ procurement agents to carry out
procurement on its behalf. The procurement agents should also be given the responsibility of
training government employees and special incentives should be built in their contracts to ensure
that this is achieved. Training recommendations include undertaking a needs assessment of



ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 23
procurement professionals; developing professional standards for procurement cadres through a
certification system; developing training programs and training materials leading to certifications
as cadre; and systematic and continuous on-the-job procurement training for all civil servants
(since decisions on procurement made by multiple layers of administrative officers). To
implement these recommendations, Government will need to increase availability of training
resources to establish a well-qualified and trained procurement cadre.
37.    Government has already implemented some of the above reforms. For example, the new
regulations have been gazetted and have become effective in March 2001. A number of donors
are working very closely with Government to ensure that these reforms are implemented
systematically and interim funding has been made available. Given the limited implementation
capacity in Government, technical and financial assistance from development partners will be
required for some time to come.
38.    Financial management.  Although commendable improvements in public sector
accounting and reporting have been made in Uganda, recent evaluations, including the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) conducted jointly by Government and donors, have
made several recommendations for strengthening and enhancing financial rnanagement.S With the
support of donor-assisted initiatives, Government is seeking to enhance the financial
accountability framework to mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both
taxpayers and donors; to achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public
funds; to enhance transparency and accountability; and to establish an appropriate enabling
environment for private sector development and regulation.6
39.   In the medium term, Government will undertake the following measures to improve
financial management in the country:
*  Strengthen the legal and regulatory framework by tabling a new Public Finance Bill
in Parliament during 2001/02. Revised Treasury accounting instructions and
financial regulations will also be promulgated.
* Improve the quality and timeliness of Government's financial reporting in the short
term by expanding capacity to produce quarterly consolidated reports on budget
execution; and, in the medium term, by establishing a computer-based integrated
financial management system, initially at MOFPED and rolled out thereafter to line
ministries.
* Establish a financial management support program for the decentralization process
by providing additional support in accounting to districts that currently lack
capacity.
*  Regularize material nonreconciled items referred to in the 1999 Report of the
Auditor General on the public accounts, including the Consolidated Revenue Fund
and bank accounts.
* Implement capacity building programs through EFMP II and LGDP.
*  Enhance the independence of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) by
introducing new legislation; furthermore, to augment the capacity of the OAG, to
retain a private firnn/s as agent to assist in undertaking annual sector audits in
5For example, the annual public accounts of Govemrnment have been produced within the statultory period of four
months after the end of the financial year for each of the past four years.
6The Second Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP II) and the Local Governuent Development Project
(LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support Project funded by DFID.



ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 23
education, health and water and sanitation. The private firm/s will also provide
capacity building support.
*  Strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of the Public Accounts
Committee.
* Modernize the legal and regulatory framework for the private sector, for example,
draft bills for a new Financial Institutions Act and a new Companies Act have been
prepared and will shortly be tabled in Parliament.
*  Support the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU) to enable
it to fulfill its statutory obligation of regulating and developing the accountancy
profession, including the training of accountants at the technician and professional
levels.
40.   As the current financial management system does not provide adequate information on
actual public spending on front-line basic services, Government has pioneered expenditure
tracking surveys to fill the information gap. The education sector has been using these surveys
successfully for a number of years. The Ministry of Health (MOH) in collaboration with
MOFPED has designed and contracted an expenditure tracking survey on the primary health care
conditional grant to be carried out this fiscal year. At least two basic service sectors will carry
out similar surveys annually and disseminate the results.
41.   Although the CFAA Report concluded that the central and local government financial
management systems represent high fiduciary risk, the major recommendations contained in the
report have been reflected in the PRSC Policy Matrix and Government's Letter of Development
Policy. The Experimental IMF Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (August 1999)
concluded "Uganda has made notable improvements in enhancing transparency practices in key
areas, especially fiscal and monetary policy and banking supervision. While progress has been
less pronounced in the area of data dissemination, Government has taken important steps to
improve practices in this regard."
42.   The challenge facing Govemment and its development partners is to implement those
recommendations in practice.  In that regard, the assiduous monitoring of the financial
management reform initiatives using the coordination mechanism initially established under
EFMP II and expanded to cover the entire scope of financial management reform under the
PRSC, will be critical. The recruitment and retention of appropriately qualified and experienced
staff at all levels by offering competitive remuneration packages are also crucial to achieving an
overall improvement in the financial accountability environment.
Monitoring and Evaluation
43.   The immediate challenge for national development management is to translate success in
the macroeconomic arena into greater success at the sector level.  Value for money in
expenditures, quality of budget execution, and effectiveness of public service delivery, are serious
concerns. From a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) perspective the major problem is that both
information management and decisionmaking within Government are currently focused on the
administrative process of expenditures and activities rather than on the poverty outcomes,
impacts, and goals that are being pursued. Planning, budgeting and incentives are geared towards
inputs, activities, and immediate outputs. Recurrent and development expenditures are reviewed
separately, rather than for their combined impact in achieving overall goals. M&E remain overly
centered on compliance with donor and government requirements and regulations rather than end-
results of policy, program, and project efforts. Civil servants get rewarded for doing paperwork
well rather than making a difference in people's lives.



ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 23
44.    Monitoring and evaluation in Uganda are fragmented, with multiple government and
donor planning and progress reporting formats. Policy formulation, work planning and budgeting
are undertaken as separate exercises at the sector and district levels. With a proliferation of
different funding arrangements, officials are burdened with a large volumne of reporting but have
little systematic information about effectiveness of actual public service delivery.
45.    Ongoing  initiatives  to  introduce  outcome-oriented  budgeting,  results-oriented
management, and pay reform deal with improving the quality of government. However, these
initiatives have often been approached from  the perspective of narrow  departmental
responsibilities rather than comprehensive goals and government-wide ownership. There is a
need for much closer alignment and coordination.
46.    Government recognizes the importance of strengthening M&E.  It appreciates the
importance of improving results orientation and has defined the effectiveness of public service
delivery as its highest priority. Making headway will necessarily be an ongoing and long-term
process of awareness building, institutional liaison, systems adjustment, and skill formation. It
will require policy consultations and operational action on several fronts. The background report
for the PRSC which diagnosed M&E functions in Uganda concluded thal: the most critical short-
term actions that would help in developing M&E would include: (i) refinement of PEAP goals
and targets; (ii) continuous monitoring of service delivery; (iii) expansion of the scope of
reporting harmonization, especially for sector and poverty programs; (iv) finalization of the
poverty monitoring strategy; and (v) identification and dissemination of good practice approaches
to M&E in Uganda, among those that already exist at the sector, district and facility levels.'
47.    The key role of M&E is to help keep track of, and continuously learn from, progress
towards the PEAP/PRSP goals and targets. The starting point for M&E's contribution is clarity
about what poverty eradication success looks like. In this respect, there is a need for clarification
of a coherent and meaningful set of PEAP/PRSP goals and targets for a more operational
medium-term timeframe so that the goals and targets of the PEAP/PRSP systematically cascade
through the national development management system.
Anti-Corruption Measures
48.    Corruption in Uganda is widespread and negatively affects private sector development
and growth. A recent survey of Ugandan firms indicates that the majority of firms pay significant
bribes.' Survey data for foreign investors in Uganda show that weak governance, including
ineffective enforcement of laws and contracts, also seriously limits private sector growth.
Nonetheless, there are some signs of improvement in these areas. Indexes of the ICRG, presented
in Annex Figure 1.2, suggest that the quality of bureaucracy and especially rule of law have been
steadily increasing in the past nine years.
49.   In 1996, President Museveni made the eradication of corruption a national priority. He
assigned the responsibility for overseeing the fight against corruption to the Vice President. In
1998, anti-corruption responsibilities were shifted to a new Minister in the office of the President
and the Directorate of Ethics and Integrity. In that year, Government also presented its first
comprehensive plan to combat corruption. The plan has been revised since then, and in July 2000
7 "Strengthening Capacity for Monitoring and Evaluation in Uganda: A Results Based Management Perspective" by
Arild Hauge. ECD Working Paper Series 8. Operations Evaluation Department, World  Bank, Washington, D.C.
January 2001.
8 "The Cost of Doing Business: Firm's Experience with Corruption in Uganda." by J. Svensson. Africa Region
Working Paper Series, No. 6. The World Bank, Washington, D.C. 2000.



ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 23
President Museveni launched the "Government Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight Corruption
and Build Ethics and Integrity in Public Office-Fiscal Years 2000-2002". This plan aims at
building capacity for coordination, planning and monitoring anti-corruption efforts and to build
ethics and integrity of the people of Uganda. This will be achieved through a series of preventive
and reactive strategies and measures to reduce corruption.
50.    Government's anti-corruption  strategy focuses on the following  six areas: (i)
strengthening the capacity of law enforcement for better investigation, prosecution and
judgement, particularly of corruption cases; (ii) strengthening procurement systems; (iii)
strengthening financial accountability; (iv) ensuring public sector pay reform; (v) ensuring
effective coordination of agencies on corruption issues; (vi) strengthening the legal framework
related to corruption; (vii) strengthening the system of enforcement of codes of conduct, and (viii)
coordination by the Directorate of Ethics and Integrity of all agencies involved in implementing
the plan. This remains an ambitious agenda and a decrease in the incidence of corruption remains
the only true measure of a success. Therefore, the monitoring of corruption is a key element of
the action plan. In 1998, Government conducted a National Integrity Survey (of households) to
assess the incidence of corruption by agency and intends to repeat this exercise in the coming
year. Government also plans to integrate anti-corruption elements into the broader national
service delivery surveys to be conducted regularly. Although much has been accomplished
particularly in the areas of economic management, respect for human rights and the rule of law,
there is still much that needs to be done to reach the level of "zero tolerance" of corruption stated
by the President.
51.    Government also recognizes the weak capacity of the criminal justice system to process
cases effectively and efficiently. In that respect, it is committed to (i) strengthen coordination and
cooperation among the justice, law and order agencies; (ii) put in place efficient and effective
detection, investigation and state prosecution of crime; and (iii) improve public awareness of
constitutional and legal rights and procedures. In that context, Government is in the process of
adopting a sector-wide approach to criminal and commercial justice reforms.
PEAP/PRSP PILLAR IV: DIRECTLY INCREASING THE QUALITY OF LIFE
Improving Quality of Education9
52.   In late 1996, the President of Uganda launched the Universal Primary Education (UPE)
program, providing free access to primary schools for up to four children per family: two boys
and two girls. Orphans were given free access to primary education. This had a massive impact
on enrollment: children attending school increased from 3.1 million in 1996 to 6.8 million in
2000 and the gross enrollment ratio increased from 75 to 133 percent over the same period. In
addition, analysis from the 2000 national household survey indicates that UPE has eliminated the
wealth bias that characterized access to primary education, helped establish gender equality by
increasing girls' access to primary education, and reduced the incidence of cost-related drop-outs
from primary schools. National surveys indicate that UPE is highly appreciated by parents and it
remains Government's top priority. In order to support UPE, public spending on education has
increased from 19 percent of the discretionary recurrent budget in 1995/96 to 30 percent in
1999/00 and will be maintained in the 2001/02-2003/04 MTEF. Primary education spending is
about two-thirds of the total expenditure on education.
9 This section is based on "Education Sector." Background Paper for the Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit.
The World Bank, Washington, D.C. December 2000.



ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 23
53.    Despite this increase in resources, the main inputs to education, that is, teachers,
classrooms and textbooks, have not kept pace with the expansion of enrollment. As a
consequence, the quality of education appears to have declined. The same standardized tests
administered to both P3 pupils in 1996 (prior to UPE) and 1999 (the first UPE cohort in P3)
showed a decline in the proportion of pupils with satisfactory results in mathematics-from 48
percent to 31 percent-and in English-from 92 to 56 percent on the oral test. There were large
differences in achievement between pupils in urban and rural schools, girls and boys and among
those in different regions, with those in Kampala outperforming those in the rest of the country.
54.    Further indications of low quality are the high repetition (estimated to be about 8 percent
in P1 and 11 percent in P2) and dropout rates. Estimates are that only about a quarter of those
now enrolled in P1 will complete primary school in the requisite seven years (as compared with
about 30 percent prior to the UPE initiative), and only about 35 percent of those enrolled in P1
will ever complete primary school. Accordingly, Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment
Project (UPPAP), parents also asserted that the quality of primary education is a problem.
55.    Recognizing the challenge of implementing UPE, Government initiated consultations
with external funding agencies and other major stakeholders on the development of an investment
and policy framework that will improve access and quality, strengthen the role of the central
Government in policymaking and the districts and schools in providing education, and build
effective partnerships between the public and private sector. Semiannual education sector
reviews are the main forum for discussing sector issues, determining modes of dealing with them,
setting targets for the sector and monitoring progress towards meeting these targets. The reviews
also establish the basis on which funding agencies will release budget support to the sector. In
addition, an education sector coordination committee involving the Ministry of Education and
Sports (MOES) and other key stakeholders in education, including funding agencies, meets every
two months and advises the Ministry's top management on implementation issues.
56.    Primary school classrooms. Currently, the average pupil-classroom ratio is 121:1. ' In
an effort to address the inadequacy of school facilities to meet the demand from increased
enrolment, MOES established the school facilities development program in 1999, and a national
plan for expansion of school facilities has been developed, including targets of 55:1 by 2010 and
75:1 by 2005. One aim of the program is to target the poorest communities through a system of
ranking applications to ensure that the neediest schools receive help first. The benefits of this
modality are speedy construction, high community involvement, an infusion of money to local
areas and the greater likelihood of regular maintenance in the future. Based on experience so far,
however, the available capacity (financial and other) is inadequate to meet the target pupil-
classroom ratio of 55:1.
57.    Primary school teachers. The enormous expansion in enrolment combined with limited
resources forced allocations of one teacher to every 110 pupils in the first two grades of primary
school and one teacher to every 55 pupils in the remaining five grades. The allocation has now
been relaxed to one teacher for every 80 pupils in the first two grades. The current pupil-teacher
ratio nationally was 65:1 in 2000. Clearly, this ratio is too high and the target is 48:1 by 2003.
However, the resources are not currently available in the budget to support the targeted ratio. In
addition, despite the inadequate establishment, Government has not r.nanaged to fill all the
' This ratio and subsequent ratios in this section are based on the following estimates of children enrolled in
Government schools: 1999-6.0 million, 2003-6.4 million, 2005-6.9 million, and 2010-7.3 million. However, these
projections must be treated with caution for at least two reasons: first, because the massive post-UPE growth rates
require further analysis; and, second, because of the uncertainty regarding growth in private schools.



ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 23
established positions, and the gaps between the establishment numbers and those in post are
largest in rural and remote areas. The existing primary teachers colleges graduate about 9,000
teacher per year. The level of wastage in primary teachers colleges (40 percent) is a major area of
concern. Through donor support, a teacher development and management system (TDMS) has
been put in place to provide continuous professional development for trained teachers, as well as
provide upgrading for unqualified teachers. A recently completed study of teacher utilization in
primary schools will guide government policy in this area. A plan to improve performance in
primary teacher colleges will be implemented to increase the pass rates
58.   Instructional materials. The single most important nonwage input in primary education
is textbooks. Currently, the average of pupils to textbooks is 6.2:1 in the four core subjects
(English, mathematics, social studies and integrated science). The target ratio for these subjects
is 3:1 by 2003 and 1:1 by 2009. The curriculum has been expanded and now includes eleven
subjects: this expansion will also have a significant impact on resource requirements. While
provision remains a problem, utilization is also a major issue with textbooks often stored away
from the school in teachers' or head-teachers' houses. This tends to reduce access to the books
when they are needed. The school facilities development program has been redesigned to include
storage cupboards as part of the construction package. Teachers will also be trained and
supported in methods of selecting textbooks and to improve their management of textbook
utilization. Modalities for distribution and utilization will be reviewed with a view to improving
pupil-book ratios.
59.   Post-primary and tertiary education. Another major issue facing the Ugandan education
system is the impact of UPE on the demand for post-primary education. While more than 40
percent of the children completing primary school continued on in post-primary education, the
share of the age range participating is less than 20 percent. This was a consequence of the high
dropout rates in primary school. Currently, also there are significant inequities in regard to
participation in post-primary education: children from the top 20 percent of the population
occupied 63 percent of secondary school places in 1999. As a consequence of UPE, the number
of children completing primary school is expected to increase from 200,000 to 700,000 by 2004
and most of them will seek places in postprimary schools. While Government is aware of this
bulge and planning for it, resource constraints are likely to limit the number of places available
and the quality of education being provided. Models and options are currently being explored.
The broad goals and objectives for reform are as follows: (i) increasing equitable access through
various strategic expansion measures; (ii) increasing effectiveness and cost-efficiency through
cost-cutting and more intensive use of available resources; (iii) improving relevance and
enhancing outcomes through diversity and choice of options; (iv) safeguarding quality and
improving performance. There have been many changes at the tertiary level also with significant
increases in access as a result of Makerere University opening its doors to fee-paying students
and 11 private universities being established. However, access remains very low, at less than 2
percent of the age range, with the poor particularly disadvantaged. A strategic plan for the
tertiary subsector is also under preparation, and this is to be guided by a number of studies to be
undertaken.
60.   MOES has developed a framework for monitoring and evaluation of education sector
performance. The framework includes an education management information system, national
assessment of performance in education, research, monitoring activities as well as a longitudinal
study to monitor qualitative changes at primary school level for the benefit of policy
development. To monitor sector performance, Government, external funding agencies and other
key stakeholders have agreed to review Education for All (EFA) indicators annually. There are
16 such indicators with specific targets, under the headings of access, quality and efficiency. The



ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 23
semiannual education review is the forum for assessing progress against agreed education
indicators and setting undertakings for the future.
61.    District education officers are responsible, in conjunction with communities, for the
delivery of primary and secondary education, while MOES' role has shifted to become one of
policymaking, investment management, and quality assurance.  About 72 percent of all
government resources for education are provided through the districts (the bulk of this through
the Poverty Action Fund).  Schools receive finances directly through a conditional grant
transferred from central government to districts but earmarked for schools. The size of the grant
is determined by the number of children in the first three grades (an allocation of USh 5,000 per
child) and the number of children in the next four grades (USh 8,000 per child). This devolution
of responsibility for primary education to district level has a number of consequences. The lack
of clarity over roles and responsibilities confuses management and accountability responsibilities.
Capacity to plan and account for expenditure is low, including the school level. There is also
concern that the dependence on conditional grants is not promoting good governance, and is
impacting negatively upon service delivery.
62.    A financial tracking survey carried out in 2000 showed that over 90 percent of the
amount allocated by MOFPED reached the schools as intended, up from 20 percent in 1995. This
study also noted significant improvements, but also problems of delays in the allocations reaching
schools and significant problems of appropriate utilization and record keeping at the school level.
Plans to improve the regular audits, which started in 1999, to fit within Government's statutory
requirements will continue, and be complemented with regular expenditure tracking studies.
Based on the recommendations of a study to determine the allocation formula for primary school
capitation grants, the allocation will now be more dynamic and determined on the basis of
enrollment, gender, number of disabled, location on the rural/urban axis and the cost of living
axis. The decentralization budgeting pilot has the potential to consolidate ownership of education
development strategy within districts and provide well performing districts with more
discretionary use of conditional grants.
63.    Teacher recruitment has been decentralized to district service commissions. However,
there are many problems. Some rural districts have great difficulty attracting teachers and there
are delays in recruitment, deployment and addition to the payroll. Four ministries (MOES,
MOPS, MOFPED, and MOLG) and seventeen steps are involved in teacher recruitment,
deployment and payment. A national campaign has been launched to recruit at least 15,000 new
teachers, including retirees, secondary school graduates and new graduates from teacher training
colleges, by April 2001, with the aim of adding over 30,000 new teachers to the payroll by 2003.
Unqualified teachers will be inducted, trained and supported through TDMS. A system put in
place to monitor established positions filled will ensure that at least all districts achieve at least 95
percent of their established ceilings by 2003. In order to attract teachers to remote areas the
Cabinet has approved 15 percent of classroom construction budget be used for teachers' houses
and those teaching in hard to reach areas be paid a monthly allowance equal to 20 percent of their
monthly salary. Multigrade teaching in sparsely populated areas and double shifting in urban
settings are being piloted. The expansion of these pilot schemes countrywide will depend on the
outcome of the pilot study to evaluate improved teaching-learning conditions.
64.   Education sector reviews. As described earlier, the sector reviews are the main forum
for discussing education-related issues, setting targets for the sector and monitoring progress
towards meeting these targets. The reviews also establish the basis on which funding agencies
release financial support to the sector. Accordingly, the education sector team will be the forum
for presenting and discussing the specific PRSC indicators and associated targets; the PRSC



ANNEX 1
Page 17 of 23
indicators and targets are a subset of the agreed indicators and targets monitored at the sector
reviews. As described in the letter of development policy, the indicators to be monitored for the
PR.SC are three key input indicators (pupil:teacher, pupil:textbook and pupil:classroom ratios)
and one outcome indicator in the short term: the share of the appropriate age range participating
in the final year of primary school. This indicator measures both the intemal efficiency of the
system, indicating the share of those enrolling in P1 who persist to P7 without dropping out or
repeating, and the parental and child perceptions of the quality of the system, as indicated by low
drop-out and high persistence rates.
Improving Quality of Health Care"'
65.    Despite progress in health and demographic indicators since the mid-1980s, the health
status of Ugandans is still very low and compares unfavorably with neighboring countries. The
leading causes of morbidity and mortality are attributed to preventable, largely communicable
diseases, with women and children bearing a disproportionate amount of the burden of ill health.
A burden of disease study conducted in 1995, found that over 75 percent of the life years lost due
to premature death are attributable to ten diseases including perinatal and matemal-related
conditions (20 percent), malaria (15 percent), acute lower respiratory tract infections (11 percent),
HIV/AIDS (9 percent), and diarrheal diseases (8 percent). Together, these account for over 60
percent of the total burden of disease (that is, taking into account both mortality and morbidity).
66.    The AIDS epidemic has had a devastating effect on health status and on the overall social
and economic development of the country. It is estimated that since the start of the epidemic, 2.2
million people have been infected, 800,000 of them have died and 1.1 million children have been
orphaned. Earlier gains in improving key health indicators have been reversed. There has been a
resurgence of diseases such as tuberculosis and an increase in opportunistic infections
accompanying AIDS. Health services have been overwhelmed with AIDS patients taking up to
70 percent of hospital beds in some health facilities. The effects of the epidemic are far reaching:
loss of household heads and main income earners; young children forced out of school and into
early labor; and depletion of the human capital resulting in loss of professional and skilled
workers. All this has had a negative impact on productivity.
67.    Despite efforts to improve health services, there are still large segments of the population,
especially in the rural areas, with limited access to health care services. Furthermore, many
people do not seek modem health care services when they are ill. There are also marked
variations in access both within and between districts and regions. While there has been a major
expansion of the number of health facilities, many of them are underutilized for a number of
reasons. Many facilities, especially those closest to the communities, do not provide the full
range of essential primary health services, such as maternity services and immunization. For
example, only 47 percent of children have been fully immunized before their first birthday. The
quality of services has been shown to be the main reason for low utilization.12 Key among the
problems is the inadequate number of trained health staff especially in public health facilities. By
the end of 1999, only 33 percent of established positions in public facilities were filled by
qualified staff, with 54 percent of these concentrated in hospitals or the nonprimary health care
subsector. The remaining posts were either vacant or as was the case in more than 60 percent of
" This section provides a summary of the main issues and actions described in the health background paper for the
PRSC "Support to the Health Sector Plan 2000-2005," which has been developed jointly by financiers providing
programmatic support to the health sector, namely DFID, IDA, Ireland Aid, and Sida. Belgium also provides
programmatic support to the health sector.
2"Health Care in Uganda: Selected Issues", Paul Hutchinson in collaboration with Demissie Habte and Mary Mulusa.
World Bank Discussion Paper No. 404, Washington D.C.



ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 23
peripheral units, filled with untrained staff, mostly nursing aides."3 In addition, most of the staff
were poorly motivated due to delays in salary payments.
68.    Working conditions in many of these facilities are inadequate, with little maintenance of
buildings and shortage of basic equipment. Non-availability of drugs common to public health
facilities is often quoted as the single most important reason for low utilization of health facilities.
The public health system has been characterized by weaknesses in the following: projection of
requirements for drugs; procurement and logistics systems for receiving, storing drugs at the
central level and delivering them to district; controls and supervision at the point of use; and, poor
prescribing practices. Districts' capacity for financial management is also weak. There have
been problems in disbursing, accounting and auditing of funds, particularly for the primary health
care conditional grant (the main channel for funds for district health activities).
69.    Nongovernmental organizations, especially those that are faith-based, play a critical role
in health service provision in Uganda, where they provide more than 50 percent of health
services. Surveys repeatedly indicate that NGO services are considered to offer better quality
services than the public sector. For this reason, people have been willing to pay for NGO
services. External funding to the NGO sector especially to health services provided by faith-
based organizations has decreased markedly over the years. Furthermore, Government's recent
actions to motivate health workers through improved salaries and other incentives are resulting in
movement of health workers from NGOs to government facilities. There is a limit to which fees
can be raised without affecting utilization, and many NGO facilities have now reached that level.
This poses a great threat to the sustainability of NGO-provided health services.
70.    The health care system remains under-resourced. The annual total per capita expenditure
on health is estimated at US$12. A significant proportion of this is financed by donors. At the
household level, expenditures on health per household differ significantly between the nonpoor
and the poor. For example, in 1995/96, the lowest income quartile spent US$4.85 per capita
while the highest income quartile spent US$15.37 per capita.
71.    The recently adopted National Health Policy (NHP) is the health sector's framework for
implementing PEAP/PRSP goals. It provides the country's vision for addressing the health sector
issues already outlined above. Specifically, the NHP aims to develop an effective, efficient,
responsive and accountable national health care system that would lead to increased access, usage
and satisfaction with the health services. The NHP is elaborated in the Health Sector Strategic
Plan (HSSP). The current HSSP covers the five-year period, FY2000/)1-2004/05 and will be
implemented through the MTEF. Outlined below are the priority strategies for meeting these
goals.
72.    Delivery of the minimum  health care package.  To reduce the disease burden,
Government will ensure the provision of the minimum package to all. The package consists of
selected cost-effective interventions that present the best value for money, given the limited
resources available. It will address twelve priority programs: (i) control of communicable
diseases including malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis; (ii)
integrated management of childhood illnesses; (iii) sexual and reproductive health and rights; (iv)
immunization; (v) environmental health; (vi) health education and promoltion; (vii) school health;
(viii) epidemics and disaster preparedness and response; (ix) nutrition; (x) diseases targeted for
eradication; (xi) mental health; and, (xii) essential clinical care. The choice to strategically focus
resources on selected interventions in each of the priority areas is in contrast with the past when
13 Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan. October 1999.



ANNEX 1
Page 19 of 23
resources were spread too thinly across too many interventions resulting in very little impact.
Emnphasis will be given to information, education and communication (IEC) programs to improve
personal health practices and promote health-seeking behavior especially among the poor.
Government intends to increase formal contracting of NGO providers in the districts to
rationalize available services and promote efficient use of resources.
73.   Special attention to EIIV/AIDS.  Uganda's response to the epidemic has been
characterized by high level political commitment, openness and partnership between
Government, NGOs, and communities, and has resulted in a decline in HIV prevalence from 18.5
percent in the early 1990s to 8 percent in 1999. However, despite the achievements, there is still
need for a sustained effort to fight the epidemic. Government has adopted a multisectoral
national strategic framework for HIV/AIDS covering the period FY 2001-2006. The HSSP
outlines the health sector role of providing (i) prevention services (IEC; condom use; treatment
for sexually transmitted diseases, voluntary counseling and testing, reducing mother-to-child
transmission); (ii) care (treatment of tuberculosis and opportunistic infections); and (iii) technical
guidance on home-based care and strengthening links between health facilities and the
communities for continuum of care.
74.   The HSSP outlines strategies for addressing key policy and operational functions,
including the health care delivery system; the legal and regulatory framework; the integrated
support systems (human resources, quality assurance, information management system,
procurement and drugs, equipment, supplies and logistics, and health care financing); the policy,
planning and information management systems; and research and development. The HSSP
provides an overall framework for costs and financing over the five-year plan period. The plan
covers the costs of delivering the minimum health care package; the referral hospitals and MOH
headquarters; and health councils and autonomous bodies.  Financing sources include
Government, donors, NGOs and households through the fees they pay for services. The NHP
makes provision for adopting alternative financing mechanisms. A health care financing strategy
covering user fees, insurance and community insurance schemes is being developed. The policy
will address Government's concern that cost sharing should not prevent the poor from accessing
health services.
75.   Health infrastructure. Government's strategy is to enhance utilization of existing
capacity through rehabilitation and limiting construction of new health facilities based on the
population and rational use of resources. An exercise for mapping health facilities throughout the
country has been completed and will form the basis for the development of a national health
infrastructure and maintenance plan. Procedures for prior approval of new health facilities
including at community level will be developed.
76.   Human resources.  Actions to address the acute shortage of human resources are
underway and include training of 1300 nursing assistants immediately to enhance the quality of
health workers at the front line. Recruitment of qualified staff aims at achieving minimum
staffing norms at 60 percent of the facilities. Other priority actions include: pay reform for health
workers; increasing skills of nurses through the introduction of the comprehensive enrolled nurses
training program; and reaching agreement between MOH and MOES on management and support
to health training schools, including those of NGOs or private not for profit (PNFP)
organizations.
77.   Health care financing. Government seeks to enhance and rationalize financing to the
sector. The MOH will approve a health care financing strategy that includes a strategy and action
plan for public financing of health care services by the NGO sector starting with a 100 percent



ANNEX 1
Page 20 of 23
increase in the current fiscal year. In future donor funding will increasingly be channeled through
the GOU budget. For this reason, MOH will increase budget provisions for the procurement of
essential drugs, condoms, vaccines, contraceptives and supplies.
78.   Procurement. Government's strategy is to enhance MOH procurement capacity with the
aim of ensuring that on average 80 percent of health facilities have adequate stocks of needed
drugs and vaccines. MOH will undertake a number of actions in the medium term: make interim
procurement arrangements; appoint a contracts committee and procurement unit in MOH; and
strengthen procurement planning, starting with the submission of a procurement plan for the
current fiscal year. For drugs management, MOH will carry out the following priority actions:
complete the baseline survey of requirements under the district drug management initiative;
approve an implementation plan for the national drug policy and strategic plan on
pharmaceuticals; adopt an updated regulatory framework for the pharmaceutical sector.
79.   Implementation arrangements. The HSSP will be delivered through a decentralized
system with districts taking primary responsibility for implementation. Health sub-districts have
been introduced below the district headquarters level to provide referral. services closer to the
people. To improve health services, MOH will provide guidelines for the districts on the
establishment of village health committees and other existing community structures to mobilize
communities to participate in improvement of their health. A mon:Atoring and evaluation
framework with key indicators has been agreed on for measuring the progress in implementation
of the HSSP. The framework will help to inform management and decision making. The health
management information system will be strengthened accordingly.
80.   Sector-wide approach and donor coordination. To support implementation of the
HSSP, a sector-wide approach (SWAP) has been developed jointly by the Government of Uganda
and development partners. Government has adopted a SWAP for the health sector and this has
been endorsed by most donors through their signing of the memorandum of understanding. The
benefits envisaged from the adoption of the SWAP include enabling Government to maintain
leadership of the sector; rationalizing external investments to the secto:r, reducing transaction
costs for Government in dealing with the donor community; increasing predictability of external
resource flows over a medium-term planning framework; and strengthening local service delivery
systems. Financing in the form of budget support from a number of donors will provide
flexibility to Government and enable it to more fully address sectoral issues. Government and
donors will coordinate the implementation of the HSSP through the MTEF. Annual work plans
are to be jointly reviewed twice a year in April and October in line with. Government's budget
cycle. The SWAP is in line with the comprehensive development framework (CDF) adopted by
Government and supported by IDA to maximize the use of the country's resources.
Improving Access to and Equity in Water Supply and Sanitation
81.   Uganda has an estimated population of 21.5 million. Close to 85 percent live in rural
areas, which are served by about 16,000 point sources and small, rural-p:.ped systems. Most of
the responsibilities to provide water supply and sanitation (WSS) services to rural areas are being
devolved to the district level. The Directorate of Water Development (DWD), which is a central
authority under the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment (MOWLE), retains the
responsibility for policy formulation, water resource development and regulation. In urban WSS,
the respective 78 gazetted urban local authorities and district capitals (representing 11.5 percent
of the total population) are responsible for their WSS operations, except in 12 large municipalities
where an autonomous parastatal-the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC)-provides the services. Water supply coverage is estimated at about 52 percent for both



ANNEX 1
Page 21 of 23
rural and urban water supply and about 50 percent for sanitation (mostly based on pit latrines).
Sewerage coverage of around 5 percent is limited to a few municipalities including Kampala.
82.    The sector is largely characterized by limited and unequal access to safe water and public
sanitation services in both urban and rural areas; poorly functioning decentralized sector planning
and management capacity; and ineffective utilization and nonsustainability of services
characterized by a poor maintenance culture. In rural WSS, over 30 percent of systems are
nonfunctional. In urban WSS, there is a high degree of inefficiency in the operations, and lack of
an adequate regulatory framework and incentives for commercial operations. NWSC suffers
from high unaccounted for water (45 percent), high staffing levels (24 staff per 1,000
connections) and high accounts receivable (8 months sales). The sector depends heavily on donor
fmancing for capital expenditures, while operation and maintenance expenditures in rural areas
and small towns comes mainly from the central Government budget.
83.    Government is moving toward a programmatic support framework, especially in the
delivery of basic services, and has embarked on the transition to align development activities
under this framework. In education and health, transition to programmatic support has been
facilitated by the formulation of sector-wide approaches (SWAP). Similarly, Government
expects the WSS sector to move towards a SWAP. A SWAP program has yet to be formulated in
WSS. Efforts under the PRSC will concentrate on achieving the transition to SWAP. The
allocation of substantial resources to the sector from the current MTEF process was designed to
kick-start the process.
84.    The SWAP framework for the WSS sector will include several components. They will
be in line with the National Water Policy (1999).14 The development objective arising from the
rural and urban WSS strategy formulation exercise is to increase access, reliability, affordability
and sustainability of the provision of WSS services. Follow-up strategies have been formulated
for rural and rural growth centers, as well as for the urban and secondary urban centers covering
piped systems. In rural WSS, the underpinning approaches are (i) community-driven demand and
extension management, (ii) planning and management at the district level, (iii) facilitation by the
central government, and (iv) private sector involvement. In urban WSS, the underpinning
approaches are to (i) achieve efficiency and commercialized operations through the participation
of private sector in service delivery, (ii) manage public sector through professional personnel, and
(iii) regulate using an independent regulation system. In order to support these underpinning
tenets, the coordination of technical assistance, especially to the district level WSS institutions
and public sector asset managers will be very important. To facilitate the monitoring and
evaluation of the implementation of the SWAP, a sector-wide management information system
protocol will be needed. The Water Policy Committee established by MOWLE and comprising
representatives of all stakeholders will oversee the policy reforms. Broadly, the specific
subsector strategies are as follows:
85.    Rural WSS strategies. Demand-driven planning will be developed and strengthened.
Communities will determine their requirements and demands, and subsequently be responsible
for the operations and operations and maintenance cost recovery of the system. Management of
implementation (that is, promotion, subproject planning support, procurement and front-line
accountability) will be carried out at the district level. In order to facilitate these, District Water
and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs) will be formed in each district and be fully integrated into the
district establishment. The districts will utilize the private sector in upstream project activities
14 'This policy states policy objectives for each subsector, including the roles of the private sector and NGOs in the WSS
sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 22 of 23
(that is, obtain consultants for design of small-piped systems, drilling, spring protection, public
latrine construction, hand-pump and piping supply and installation, and so forth). While
communities will be responsible for the management of the WSS systems (through either water
and sanitation committees for point sources or water user associations for small, rural-piped
schemes), they will engage the private sector for maintenance and after-sales services to ensure
continued system functionality.
86.   The development of local appraisal, implementation and operation capacities will be an
important aspect to ensure successful planning, design, implementation and management at this
level. DWD will create Technical Support Units (TSUs) to provide capacity building and
technical assistance support to districts through these TSUs. DWD will also provide monitoring
and evaluation support as well as some higher-level appraisal support. Districts will access
funding on the basis of agreed work plans through conditional grants available directly from the
budget allocation to the sector. Standardized operational guidelines for accessing these grants
will be developed to guide the training and capacity building of personnel from the communities,
subcounties and districts.
87.   Urban WSS strategies. In the smaller towns with piped systems, the ownership of
assets will remain in the public sector. However, management and fiscal autonomy will be
achieved through the creation of autonomous WSS authorities to manage these systems. The
WSS authorities will be staffed by professional WSS system managers and operated along a
'miniutility' principle. The WSS authorities will be tasked with managing their systems using
commercial and cost recovery principles. The WSS authorities will contract the operations of the
systems to private operators, promoting efficient pricing, and technical and commercial
operations through transparent and competitive contracting processes. This will be done through
the use of management contracts. Several WSS authorities may package their systems to be
privately operated to achieve enhanced efficiency and economies of scale where feasible and
practical. The current conditional grant allocation has earmarked a smnll amount of financial
resources for the use of WSS authorities with old systems to jump start their rehabilitation, and
introduction of commercial operation and cost recovery.
88.   In the larger towns-especially those already under the management of NWSC-the
scale of operation which exists lends itself to deeper private sector assumption of operational as
well as commercial risks.  It is envisioned that a lease arrangement with a professional
international water operator could be established for these larger towns. In order to achieve the
most attractive and competitive lease proposals, steps will be taken to strengthen the operational
and financial standing of NWSC prior to private sector involvement. In a lease arrangement with
a private operator, an asset holding authority will replace NWSC to hold the asset in public hands
and administer the lease contract.
89.   Monitoring and reporting procedures would consist of several ccomponents: (i) routine
reporting (an management information system protocol will require standard routine reporting by
the districts and WSS authorities to DWD); (ii) periodic reporting (independent surveys annual
service delivery surveys and periodic participatory poverty assessments and the national
household surveys will provide periodic information of the WSS sector. A periodic 'state of the
WSS sector' report could be published from the above information by DWrD for the purposes of
information, monitoring and reporting as well as feedback into district a:nd national investment
planning) and (iii) regulator (in urban WSS, an independent regulatory system will be established.
The role of the regulator includes the monitoring of the various contracts between central
government, local government, WSS authorities/asset holding authority, and the private sector.
The sector will be responsible for the periodic reporting to the regulator).



ANNEX 1
Page 23 of 23
90.    Transition to SWAP. MOWLE has made significant progress on most issues identified
duwing the current fiscal year. The general consensus among sector stakeholders including the
key donors is that the PRSC process will be used as the transition to SWAP in the WSS sector
over the next three years.15 The benchmarks agreed on under the PRSC are to be considered as
building blocks for the SWAP: (i) developing capacity in extension services for community
demand orientation, (ii) strengthening of decentralized planning and management through local
governments, (iii) improving the capacity of central government institutions in facilitation and
channeling of technical assistance to local governments, and (iv) increasing the capacity for
sustained delivery of goods and services by the private sector. MOWLE, in conjunction with an
informal donor group have agreed to finalize the framework for the transition to WSS SWAP by
the first joint Government/donor sector review in June 2001. Coordinated support will be critical
to znsure the efficient use of resources available from the donor group, particularly for technical
assistance, capacity building to sector institutions, equipment, and targeting of vulnerable groups
or districts.
91.    Under the leadership of MOFPED and MOWLE an interministerial steering committee
wi ll be established with donor participation to ensure sector oversight and coordinate monitoring,
technical assistance and guidance for the development and management of the SWAP. MOWLE
will establish a monitoring protocol that draws on the routine returns from the districts, the annual
household and service delivery surveys, independent surveys and issue an annual sector report
"St ate of the WSS Sector". This report will capture progress on agreed operational indicators and
policy benchmarks from districts and WSS authorities, and provide feedback for districts and
national planning. The details of the monitoring framework will be an output of the joint
donor/Government sector review in June 2001.
15 The SWAP will be broadened to incorporate water for production and water resources management as soon as the
sub-sector strategies are completed.






ANNEX 2
Page I of 9
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Summary of Safeguard Management Plan
1.    As a programmatic credit, there are some direct and indirect environmental and social
issues primarily linked to reforms under Pillar IV (Pillar Im will be addressed in PRSC-II
safeguards documentation.). While the types of activities in each sector are known, the specific
locations and conditions of activities will only be known as the implementing agencies execute
their budget plans.
2.    Activities to be supported are multiple, and the Government of Uganda will determine, as
part of its budget and planning processes, their locations, size, technology, and design.
Biophysical environmental impacts, thought to be modest given the nature of the activities, can be
foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential for social impacts (such as, land
acquisition, resettlement, and effects on cultural resources) cannot be ruled out.
3.    Potential adverse impacts in the education sector include school construction. For the
health sector, safeguard concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care
waste (HCW) management. Safeguard risks are also associated with several environmental
design and sustainability issues of water supply and sanitation facilities and sewerage.
4.    The activities supported by the PRSC are not expected to result in any significant
negative environmental impacts. Sector activities associated with potential environmental and
social impacts in education, health and water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently
addressed by appropriate institutions and implementing agencies. IDA currently has a strong
presence in these sectors and will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that appropriate
safeguard measures are promoted and incorporated into Credit activities.
5.    The Ministry of Health (MOH) has identified in its environmental health program a
desire to address the handling, storage and disposal of HCW at all levels of the national health
care delivery system. This includes development of a management strategy, guidance, and
training.
6.    Through the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment (MOWLE), environmental
checklists for both design and operations will be added to the Planning and Operation Guidelines.
IDA will review the checklist for adequacy with the safeguard policies. These provisions will
identify any potential environmental, land tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed activities.
These will be implemented for borehole drilling for water supply, expansion and rehabilitation of
existing water supply and latrine sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment. Measures for
protection of water sources will also be refined. The reorganized Directorate of Water
Development (DWD) in MOWLE is continuing its reformulation of consultation provisions and
use of appropriately trained and experienced staff for these matters. Expanded stakeholder
consultation will be provided through further training of staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
7.     The anticipated number of people potentially affected is small in each activity. Land
tenure and resettlement issues will be specifically taken into consideration for acquiring land for
new schools or health units and in siting and sizing of water supply infrastructure systems.
Environmental and social issues related to the delivery of water especially in small towns,
including disposal of wastewater produced at the water treatment facilities, and routing of new
distribution pipes will be addressed during preparation of each project. Any taking of land or
other physical assets that would invoke the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement will be
identified, and individual resettlement plans as called for under the policy will be prepared by the
proponent organization or agency and will be reviewed by IDA until such time as the Bank
certifies that Ugandan govemment procedures, processes, and capacities for oversight conform to
those of the Bank.
8.     The Uganda National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) has the mandate to
co-ordinate, monitor and supervise all environmental activities.   The framework for
environmental regulation is based on the National Enviromnent Statute of 1995. A more recent
regulatory instrument, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations of 1998 define
an EIA process which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental
impact statements, and environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Therefore a system of EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts-but not
social-is in place. NEMA undertakes the EIA oversight function but leaves implementation to
the relevant line ministries and departments. In addition, NEMA is developing EIA capacity in
sectoral ministries, line departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment
project financed by IDA. Therefore, a system of EIA and monitoringr that identifies adverse
environmental impacts is in place. However, resettlement and land acquisition procedures similar
to the Bank procedures are not in place.
9.     Environmental risks are associated with health care hazardous materials and several
environmental design and sustainability issues of water supply and sanitation facilities.' Social
concerns include access to safe drinking water and economic strategies to expand point source
and network coverage to those that can not afford such services and cormmunity participation in
choosing water services and associated commitments to operation and maintenance.
10.   Government and the implementing agencies have embarked on efforts to improve
environmental sustainability for these sectors associated with PRSC I. The Bank is working with
its counterparts in the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED) to
create a viable framework for identifying and tracking key safeguard issues.
11.   The MOH, as promoted in its Health Sector Strategic Plan for 2000 to 2005, addresses a
number of environmental health objectives, covering expanded environmental health
management.2 Such measures address various sanitation and waste issues including the handling,
storage and disposal of health care hazardous wastes. In the water sector, the Directorate of
Water Development (DWD) is reformulating its organizational structure as discussed in the
Credit documentation and reformulating its consultation processes to expand the use of
appropriately trained and experienced staff to improve the delivery of integrated water and
sanitation services.
For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive,
infectious, genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers,, sharps, and associated contaminated
materials following WHO, Safe Management of Wastes from Health-Care Activities, 1999.
2 Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000/01-2004/05, August 2001).



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
12.   IDA staff will assist DWD with adding environmental review checklists for project
schemes as part of the recently released Planning and Operational Guidelines. This will include
a section covering environmental criteria for subproject appraisal, and environmental
re(quirements for contractors.
13.    A monitoring plan that provides for the review of Government's EIA procedures for the
sector activities in the PRSC will be developed. This will target the urban water and sanitation
sector activities that will submit to and have approved EIAs by the Water Resource Management
Division of DWD. IDA will undertake regular supervision to assure that all safeguard provisions
are being complied with, including appropriate involvement of safeguard policy specialists.
Enivironmental and Social Issues
Key safeguard issues are summarized in this section.
14.   Education construction.  Standard requirements for classroom  construction include
approved list of materials, location of latrines with washing facilities and safe drinking water.
Documentation of implementation of these standards must be provided in report format to ensure
construction meets with such requirements.
15.   Disposal of health care waste in health units, health centers and hospitals. Much of this
discussion is based on an assessment conducted in 1997, supplemented by recent in-country
health care facility visits and discussions with health care providers and experts.3 Over a number
of years there has been a large accumulation of expired and sub-standard drugs in Uganda. These
drugs are stockpiled in several places throughout the health sector, including the Uganda Virus
Research Institute, The National Medical Store, Joint Medical Store, Veterinary Store, and
warehouses of the Uganda Revenue Authority. Smaller amounts are also found in each of the
national, regional, district and NGO hospitals and district medical offices.
16.    Each of the health care facilities in the country handles and disposes of pathological
waste, sharps, infectious, and general waste. In many cases, the improper handling and disposal
methods pose environmental and human health risks. Health care facilities generating health care
waste are scattered all over the country. The health care infrastructure consists of the following:
1,422 health centers at the parish and subcounty level (health center II and III, 87 general
hcispitals (district level), 10 regional referral hospitals and 2 advanced tertiary care facilities. In
addition, private clinics, medical stores, phamnacies, dentists and animal care facilities generate
similar wastes. These facilities include public sector, NGOs, and private operators.
17.    The wastes and concems are as follows:
* Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated,
spilled or no longer required.
* Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radionuclides generated from in
vitro analysis of body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor localization
and therapeutic procedures.
3 DANIDA, Final Draft Report on the Feasibility Study into the Disposal of Expired Drugs and
Medical and Other Health Care Waste, Carl Bro International, May 1997.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
*  Anatomic or pathological waste consists of human and animal tissues, organs, body
parts, fetuses, blood and body fluids.
*  Sharps which comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other
puncture inducing items.
*  Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities of exposure concern originating in laboratories, infectious patient wastes,
surgery and autopsies.
*  Other waste of concern including genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.
*  Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and
other organic material.
18.   The handling and disposal of health care wastes should be conducted so that public health
risks, occupational risks and environmental risks are reduced. This requires that direct contact
between the waste and the handling personnel and the public in general should be avoided.
Furthermore, the disposal of the waste should be undertaken so that substances that might cause
negative environmental and human health impacts are either destroyed, made inaccessible, and
are not dispersed in the general environment.
19.   Protection of water sources, drinking water standards and sanitation condition. There
are several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells,
boreholes, protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems.
Most of the environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water
contamination. Measures need to be taken to ensure initially good water quality. During
operation of the system, measures need to be taken to prevent contamination from agricultural
activities, grazing animals, and human contamination. Borehole constniction in alluvial areas
with intense sugar cane production is of potential concern because of concentrated pesticide
treatments.  Testing of the water supply should be perforrned regularly to detect any
contamination to the system, and this should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine
treatment under certain circumstances. Also, proper training of technicians is critical to ensure
that adequate maintenance occurs for both the single source and network water systems.
20.    DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality analysis to
assess potential point water sources.  Post-construction water quality monitoring is also
undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data is
not fully utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one disirict were showing high
levels of nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible
causes. Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery of potable water
is expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Social issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlement requirements for the larger construction schemes will be surmnarized in a standard
report summary.
21.    Proper construction and use ofpit latrines. In Uganda both VIP and compost latrines are
being constructed.  Compost latrines are designed so that waste can decay properly and
eventually be used to enrich the soil of agricultural crops.  Each has specific technical
requirements for siting, type of construction, use, and sanitary measures. Contamination of home
well sources is of great concern with pit latrine construction; in some cases, pit latrines have been
promoted in areas with compacted and impermeable substrates. These conditions lead to poor



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
absorption, frequent run-off (particularly in the rainy season), and little if any improvement in
health. Numerous regions in the country are in high water table zones, which present particular
challenges in construction of latrines and measures to minimize contamination to the underground
drinling water supplies. Of particular concern in compost latrines is the use of compost before it
had time to decay sufficiently and allow the anaerobic conditions to kill infectious bacteria. The
compost extracted too soon from the sealed latrine compartments therefore may have caused
human health problems when used as fertilizer on gardens or when deposited as refuse near the
homestead.
22.   Sewage systems.  Sewage collection projects generally involve the construction of
underground collection tubes, and home and building hook-ups to a treatment facility. The
adverse affects on the aquatic environment are increasing nutrients, decreasing levels of oxygen
due to organic material, and threatened aquatic life from toxic chemicals. Treatments include
simple removal of debris with screens, use of settlement ponds, and simple aeration systems.
There are specific national discharge regulations and these treatment projects are facing
difficulties meeting these standards.
23.   Stakeholder consultation. Poor communities, by nature of their isolation and their very
poverty, may have little opportunity to leam about programs designed to help them. Therefore,
DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community out-reach programs
and conduct community consultations. These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It is common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type of water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. In numerous cases, access
to water is controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who is entitled to charge for
water and is also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours of
operation, reducing the number of facets and social conflicts regularly occur.  Practical
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water is available.
National Environmental Regulations
24.   The Uganda National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) has the mandate to
co-ordinate, monitor and supervise all environrental activities.   The framework for
environmental regulation is based on the National Environment Statute of 1995. As mentioned
earlier, a more recent regulatory instrument, the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations
of 1998 defines an EIA process which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact
assessments, environmental impact statements and environmental audits for all private and public
development projects. The objective of this instrument is to provide a system of EIA and
monitoring so that adverse environmental impacts can be foreseen, eliminm ted, or mitigated.
NEMA undertakes the EIA oversight function but leaves implementation to the relevant line
ministries and departments. In addition NEMA is developing ELA capacity in sectoral ministries,
departments, and at the district levels.
25.  NEMA has developed the following:
* EIA guidelines
* EIA public hearing guidelines
* Code of conduct for EIA practitioners
* Regulations for designation of inspectors



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
* Environmental inspectors guidelines, and
* Environmental easement.
26.    The initial EIA process provides for screening of projects to determine whether or not
they will have any adverse impacts through submission of a Project Brief to NEMA or delegated
lead agency. This brief, containing a set of prescribed information, is reviewed, and if there are
no significant impacts, the project is approved with a Certificate of Approval. All projects that
have or are likely to have a significant impact are required to undergo an EIA. It is also
government policy for the EIA process to be fully transparent so that all stakeholders can be
included in the process.
The Ongoing Implementation of Environmental Safeguards
27.    Health care waste. A national strategy for health care waste management is required.
Developing such a strategy requires direct dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and
national authorities. To date there has been no commitment to such a process. To facilitate
consensus building, the national HCW planning process needs to be led by a task force that
includes representatives from all the relevant ministries. It may be necessary for the task force to
seek outside expertise (that is, strategic planners and institutional experts on health and the
environment, public health specialists, health care waste management/solid waste specialists,
legal specialists) to work with local experts in all aspects of the national strategy and action plan.
28.   A national HCW strategy should:
*  Reflect priorities within health care facilities for treatment and disposal of health care
waste.
* Set goals for and means of monitoring of infection control and environmental
protection.
* Propose choice of technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.
* Prioritize central or decentralized treatment and disposal.
*  Reflect distribution of responsibility in the sector between national and local
governments.
* Make recommendations on private sector involvement.
* Propose an action and investment plan for implementation of improved HCW
management.
*  Propose mechanisms for financing health care waste management.
*  Propose guidelines for HCW management training programs at facility and
municipaldistrict level.
29.    Specific HCW  management considerations related to the key health care facilities in
Uganda are outlined in Annex Table 2.1.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
Annex Table 2.1
Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large Healtb Care Facilities
:Small facilities                               Large facilities
'Raise awareness at the management level.        Raise awareness.
Develop an integrated HCW management plan.      Ensure special HCW is segregated from other waste.
Ensure segregation of special HCW from other    Determine appropriate treatment technology.
waste.                                          Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
Determine appropriate treatment and disposal    treatment and disposal options.
site for facility.                              Ensure proper packaging and storage of special health
Train health care workers in proper HCW         care waste.
procedures.                        ~~~~~~~~Ensure safe transport of special HCW.
-procedures.                                    Develop a HCW management plan for facility.
Train health care workers in HCW management
procedures.
Address scavenging issues.
30.     Water and sanitation.  All water supply and wastewater projects will have to meet
currently existing national environmental standards and water sector guidelines.4 In addition, all
larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution systems and wastewater proposals
submitted to the DWD will undergo a prescribed EIA process that includes the following
information:
- description of the project and identification of all phases,
* description of the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites,
-   environmental effects of the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term
and long-term effects and possible alternatives,
-   measures proposed for eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts, and
*   a monitoring and evaluation program.
31.    More recent regulations concerning water supplies fall under the Water Resources
Regulations of 1998 and specifies particular requirements for (i) any water extraction by
motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii) weir, dam, tank, or other work capable of diverting or impounding an inflow of
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore both drilling and construction
pennit requirements include submission of standard application forms.  Since DWD  is the
delegated NEMA agency, all these EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD,
specifically in the Water Resources Division.
4 Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000.
RUWASA, Environmental Guidelines and Code of Conduct.
RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to Groundwater from On-site Sanitation.
RUWASA, Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999.
Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit
Latrine Systems, 2000.
Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for
Human Excreta Disposal, 2000.
RUWASA, Socio Technical Manualfor Siting, 2000.
Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation,
2000.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
32.    Based on these standards, guidelines and current practices, the sector is characterized by
the features highlighted in Annex Table 2.2.
Annex Table 2.2:
Key Element ;sof the ET4A Process for Water and Saitation Projects-Design and Construction
Objective                                       Responsible Party
*   Ensure that environmental issues are        Contractor
considered as part of design.               DWD Water Resources Di-vision and Technical
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are       Support Unit for districts
reduced or minimized at site.
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders
Actions                                          Verification
*   Review the current environmental condition at  Environmental Impact Statement
the site.                                   Initial environmental audit by contractor within a
*   Assess the potential environmental impact   period of 12 months after completion of project
associated with the proposed scheme.        DWD inspections
*   Identify mitigation measures in construction
and operation.
Monitoring and Supervision
33.    An environmental monitoring plan is needed as a safeguard to ensure that provisions are
adequately implemented and sustained. The monitoring program will clearly indicate how well
each of the sectors is implementing the key provisions defined previously. Such a plan defines
indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of measurements, detection limits
(when appropriate), and responsible monitoring agents. This plan will include a description of
how regular field site reviews of selected schemes will be undertaken. A simple and pragmatic
collection of potential monitoring indicators is provided below.
34.   The safeguard indicators and monitoring plan will be incorporated into the overall PRSC
monitoring plan described in the Credit documentation. Consequently, MOFPED will be the
ultimate information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting
appropriate information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and task force. The
PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on safeguard issues on an annual basis
that will be expanded as additional sectors are added to the subsequent annual Credits.
35.    IDA will include in the preparation of the subsequent PRSCs the participation of an
environmental specialist in  selected  missions.   This specialist wi'll review  progress in
implementation of the EMP. It is further expected that the environmental specialist will co-
ordinate with other IDA staff in the relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate safeguard
provisions are being implemented. In those cases where there is a need to provide additional
capacity building, the PRSC team will work with the selected sector agencies to develop such
initiatives. The supervision missions will include review of the performance of sector safeguard
provisions and progress in increasing awareness and environmental concern as detailed.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
Indicative Monitoring Plan
Health Care Waste, Water Supply, Wastewater, and Sanitation
Information
collection
5'ub-project                                                                             process and
component                      Monitoring indiator                  Responsibility        frequency
Health care waste   Found solution to dispose of expired        MOH                    Annual survey
handling and       pharmaceuticals                              Environmental Health
disposal           HCW Management Guidelines distributed to     Division
Districts, Chief Medical Officers, Hospitals,  district health inspectors
Health Centers and Health Units
Proper disposal containers in use and disposal
practices followed
Awareness training incorporated into health care
professional and technical curriculum
Wastewater         Lines are clear and operating               NWSC                    Semi-annual
treatment          Pumping stations clean and adjacent area not                        assessment
degraded
Treatment facility not distributing adjacent
neighbors
Discharge parameters meeting standards
Sanitation facilities  Exterior of facility clean              Community water and    Household
Fly population under control                sanitation committee    survey
Odor controlled
Facility is structurally sound
Clean water source available
P'otable water     Distribution network without leaks           DWD                    Semi-annual
dispprilbyutnd     Poor communities have access to safe water   district water offices  assessment
Structural integrity of borehole seals      small urban WSS
Public water stations and hand pumps have   authorities
proper drainage                             NWSC
Point source supply (hand pump, borehole, all
facets on public standpipes) working
Community satisfaction to access
_                   Water quality monitoring records available






Annex 3
page 1 of 2
Uganda at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                              Saharan      Low-
Uganda      Africa   Income
1999                                                                                   Development dlamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                          21.5       642      2,417
GNP per capita (Abas method, USS)                        320        500       410                   Life expectancy
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                          6.8       321       988
Average annual growth, 199399
Population (%)                                            2.9       2.6        1.9
Labor force (%)                                           2.7       2.6        2.3     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199399)                                   per                            I primary
Poverty (% of populabon below nahonal poverty line)       35          .                capit                         enrollmen
Urban populabon (% of total population)                   13         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          42         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  97         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                26         32        43
Access to improved water source (% of populaton)          52         43        64               Access to safe water
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      38         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    122         78        96
Male                                                   129         85       102               -Uganda
Female                                                 114         71        86                     Low-incomeegroup
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1989      1998       1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                                        5.3       6.8        6.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                            11.1       150       16.4
Exports of goods and services/GOP                         8.0      10.3       11.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                1.0       5.6        4.9
Gross national savings/GDP                                1.9      13.4       10.5
Current account balance/GDP                              -6.9      -10.4     -11.6     Domesti                       Investmre
Interest payments/GDP                                      ..       0 6        0.6     c                             nt
Total debt/GDP                                           36.2      53.6       54.3     Savings
Total debt service/exports                               78.8      25.5       23.1
Present value of debtGDP                                   ..      26.7       27.3
Present value of debexports                               ..      267.8      225.3
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999403                   Indebtednes
(average annual growt/h)-Uad
GDP                                   3.4       7.1       5.6       7.4        6.3                       Uganda
GNP per capita                        0.9       4.1       2.8       4.3        3.3                       Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          1.2     14.8    -14.9       33.0        6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
1% of GOP)                                                                             so
Agriculture                                              56.8      44.6       44.4     40 -
Industry                                                 10.7      17.6       17.8     30
Manufacturing                                           5.9        8.9       8.7      20
Services                                                 32.5      37.8       37.8      o
Frivate consumption                                     92.0       84.8       85.2    .10      94   95   as   97   99   s9
CGeneral government consumpton                            7.0       9.6        9.9                      GDI       e  GDP
lrnports of goods and services                           18.1      19.7       22.9
1979-89  19899         1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growl/i)E
Agriculture                                     2.7       3.7        1.9       6.9     e
Ildustry                                        6.4      12.1       11.5       9.1     40 j 1
Manufacturing                                 3.6      13.5       14.4      11.3
Services                                        3.2      8.1        6.6        7.2     20                          \
Frivate consumption                             3.4       6.3       8.6        0.8      o       '
General govemment consumption                   0.6       8.2       8.0       17.4    .20      94   95   9E   97           99
Gross domestc investment                       13.1       8.2       3.7        9.0                     Exos       :  Imports
Imports of goods and services                   7.3       9.0       3.1        2.8
Gross national product                          3.5       7.3       5.8        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 3
page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%]i
Domestic pHices                                                                      4
(% change)                                                                          40
Consumer prices                                       131.0        5.8     -0.2    30
Implicit GDP deflator                                 115.4       10.7      4.4    20
Govemment finance                                                                    10
(% of GDP, Includes cuffent grants)                                                  0       ,     ,      >     ,       99
Current revenue                                         5.5       10.3      10.9    -10            95    so   97    S    99
Current budget balance                                  -1.3       0.9      0.9             -- GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/dericit                                -4.8       -5.6      -5.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                         1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                     282       458       549
Coffee                                                276        269       307
Cofftton                                              17 26                37W
Total imports (co)                                      562      1,411     1,376      SW
Food
Fuel and energy                                        76         84       65        o *il
Export price index (1995=100)                            92        74        67            n         94   95  90   97   98   99
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                               79       106       101                  a Exports    *Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                                  117        70        67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                         1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                           304       634       726 
Imports of goods and services                           712      1,871     1,834     -2
Resource balance                                       -408     -1,237    -1,107     -4
Net income                                              -66         -9      -14      4I
Net current transfers                                   114       539       375
Current account balance                                -360       -706     -746    .10
Financing items (net)                                   342       840       780    -12
Changes in net reserves                                  18       -134      -33    *14
Memo:
Reserves including gold (JSS millions)                   46       750       748
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUSS)                       170.4   1,149.7   1,362.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  1,903      3,631     3,480
IBRD                                                   24         0         0                       58
IDA                                                   605      1,971     1,948               644
Total debt service                                      240       172       179
IBRD                                                    5         0         0
IDA                                                     5        24        30
Composition of net resource flows                                                           479                     1948
Official grants                                       131       380       277
Official creditors                                     ..       220       188
Private creditors                                       0          1        4
Foreign direct investment                              13       190       230
World Bank program
Commitments                                           141       172       165      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         100       242       245      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                    4        10        13      C - tMFG - Short-term
Net fows                                               96       231       232          -
Interest payments                                       6        14        17
Net transfers                                          90       217       215



Annex 4
Uganda Social Indicators
Laest single year                  Same reglontincome group
Sub-
Saharan           Low-
1970-76       1980-85     1993-2000               Africa        income
POPULATION
Total populition, mid-year (millions)                  11.2           14.1          20.9               627.3         3,536.4
Growth nmte (% annual average)                        2.7            2.0           2.6                 2.2             1.4
Urban population (% of population)                      8.3           9.9           13.5                33.3           30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                 7.1            7.3           6.5                 5.4            3.1
POVERTY
(% ofpopulation)
National headcount index                                  .             ..          35.0
Urban headcount index                                   ..           ..           10.0
Rural headcount index                                  ..             .           39.0
INCOME
GNP per capita (USS)                                     ..            ..           310                 510             520
Consumer priceindex(1995=100)                             ..                        115                  128            136
Food price index (1995=100)                              ..            ..           107
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                               ..            ..           38.4
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)            6.0
Highest quintile (% of Income or consumption)          47.0
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (9% of GDP)                                     *-            *-            1.8                 1.5            1.3
Educaticn (% of GNP)                                  2.7           3.5            2.6                 4.1            3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                  ..            ..
Net primaly school enrollment rate
(r ofage roDup)
Total                                                   ..           41             ..                  ..             86
Male                                                 ..            44             ..                  ..             89
Female                                               ..            38             ..                  ..             82
Access to safe water
(% ofpopulation)
Total                                                   ..           16            52
Urbar                                                ..            45            60
Rural                                                ..            12            50
Immunization rate
(% under 1'2 months)
Measles.                                               ..            17            60                   58             80
DPT                                                     ..           14            41                  53              82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                     ..            ..            26
Llfe expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                                  51            48            42                   50             63
Male                                                 50            48            42                   49             62
Female                                               52            49            41                   52             64
Mortalitty
Infant (per thousand live births)                     104           116            97                  92              68
Under S (per thousand live births)                    185           180           147                  151             92
Adult (115-69)
Male (per 1t000 population)                         447           483           579                  432            235
Female (per 1,000 population)                       393           395           615                  383            208
Maternal (per 100.000 live births)                     ..                         506






Annex 5
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators                                                page 1 of 2
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product/a                        100       100      100       100       100       100        100       100
Agriculture                                   45.1      42.0     44.6      44.4      42.9      42.1      41.1       40.1
Industry                                      16.2      17.6     17.6      17.8      19.0      19.7      20.5       21.3
Services                                      38.7      40.5     37.8      37.8      38.1      38.3      38.5       38.6
Total Consumption                              95.4      92.0      94.4      95.1      96.3      97.7      96.0       95.1
Gross domestic fixed investment                 16.7     16.3      15.1      16.4      17.2      17.6      18.1       18.3
Government investment                         5.3       4.7       4.6       4.7       6.9       7.3       7.0        6.7
Private investment                            11.3      11.6     10.5      11.7      10.3      10.3       11.0      11.6
Exports (GNFSyb                                 12.0     13.1      10.3      11.3      10.2      10.7       11.5      11.8
Imports (GNFS)                                  23.4     21.2      19.7      22.9      23.7      25.9      25.5       25.1
Gross domestic savings                          4.6       8.0       5.6      4.9       3.7        2.3       4.0        4.9
Gross national savings/c                        10.8      12.8     13.4      10.5      10.2       8.7       9.9       11.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                         6045      6297      6777      6412      6286      6544      7144       7798
(US$ million at current prices)
GNPpercapita(US$,Atlasmethod)                   290       320      310       320       330       310        310       320
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1991 prices)
Grossdomesticproductatmarketprices            9.1       4.7       5.6       7.4       5.1       6.0       7.0        7.0
Gross Domestic Income                         6.1       4.5       5.4       2.7       5.0       5.0       7.1        7.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (/o, calculated from 1991 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices       6.0       1.8       2.6       4.4       2.3       3.0       4.0        4.0
Total consumption                              5.6      -0.7      5.4      -0.4       3.1       2.3       2.6        3.3
Private consumption                           5.7       -1.2      5.5      -2.0       2.6       1.3       2 7        3.3
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFSyb                                726       825      634       726       639       698        822       919
Merchandise FOB                              590      671       458       549       451       496       585        664
Imports (GNFS)/b                              1601      1651     1871      1834      1861      1994       2145      2305
Merchandise FOB                             1218      1246      1411     1376      1393       1477      1586       1706
Resource balance                              -875      -826     -1237    -1107      -1222     -1297      -1323     -1387
Net current transfers                          421       322      539       375       424       428        426       477
Current account balance (before grants)       -500      -521      -706     -746      -813       -877      -903       -909
Current account balance (after grants)        -223      -213      -327     -470      -475       -471      -499       -487
Not private foreign direct investment          110       160      190       230       215       229        246       268
Long-term loans (net)                          495       539      608       468       577       536        541       504
Official                                      223      210       194       187       239       261        253       233
Private                                       272       329      414       281       338       275        288       271
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  -32      -46       42        82        57       213        205       249
Change in reserves/d                           -73      -132      -134      -33       -36       -101       -89       -113
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                    -14.5    -13.1    -18.3    -17.3    -19.4         -19.8     -18.5      -17.8
Real annual growth rates ( YR91 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                     31.4      27.6    -38.2       33.0     -10.8      10.0      14.2        8.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)                      5.3       1.4      14.9      2.8        0.1      6.6        6.7        6.4



Annex 5
page 2 of 2
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)/e
Currentrevenues                                10.2     11.0      10.3      10.9      10.6      10.6      10.8       10.8
Current expenditures                           9.0      10.0       9.3      10.0      10.5      11.2       11.0      10.9
Currentaccount surplus (+) or deficit(-)       1.2       1.0      0.9       0.9       0.1       -0.5      -0.2       -0.1
Capital expenditure                            7.1       6.7       6.5      6.S       9.7        8.9       8.8        8.3
Foreign financing                              7.4       7.6      7.8       7.7       9.9       11.3      10.1        9.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                         11.2     12.1      13.1      13.3      14.2      14.6       14.9      15.2
GrowthofM2 (%)                                 19.7      18.3     26.1      13.8      15.9      15.0       15.0      15.0
Private sector credit growth                  71.6      49.7     481.2      72.3      33.9     1462.5    230.4       486.9
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR91 =100)
Merchandise exportprice index                 135.6    120.7    133.6    120.3       110.6      110.7     114.3      119.8
Merchandiseimnportpriceindex                  123.2    124.3    122.5    116.2    117.7         117.0     117.7      119.0
Merchandise terms of trade index              110.1     97.2      109.1    103.6      94.0      94.6      97.1       100.7
Real exchange rate (US$tLCU)/f                35.6      36.4      37.2      32.3      33.0      33.0      33.0       33.0
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)                7.5       7.8       5.8      -0.2      6.3        5.6       5.0        5.0
GDP deflator (% change)                        4.6       3.9      10.7      4.4       3.5        5.5       5.3        5.3
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central govermnent.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 6
Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
_                                                                                          E~~~~~~~~~~j
Total debtoutstanding and               3517        3660        3631        3480        3503       3768         4002       4217
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)/a
Netdisbursements(US$mya                  160         211         192         168         217         214         199        182
Total debt service (TDS)                 167         168         172         179         180         172         174        188
(US$m)/a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGS/b                             470.7       424.0       536.9       448.4       509.6      500.1       453.3       424.9
TDO/GDP                                58.2        58.1        53.6        54.3        55.7        57.6        56.0       54.1
TDS/XGS                                22.4        19.5        25.5        23.0        26.2        22.9        19.7       19.0
TDS/XGNFS/c                            23.1        20.3        27.2        24.6        28.2        24.7        21.2       20.5
ConcessionallTDO                       95.0        95.0        97.0        97.0        98.0        98.0        98.0       98.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public           57.2        63.0        64.0        63.4        64.4        66.1       68.7        68.2
DS (%)/d
IBRD DS/XGS                             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
IBRD TDO (US$mye                         0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)               ..         ..          ..          ..          ..
IDA TDO (US$m)/e                       1797        1898       1971        1948        2200        2400        2600       2800
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                    25           3          6           2           2
Equity and quasi-equity /f                4           0          0           0           0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                    I           0          53        140           0
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. "XGNFS" denotes exports of goods and non factor services.
d. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
e. Includes present value of guarantees.
f. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Uganda - Balance of Payments                                                                        Annex 7
(USS millions at current prices)
Total exports of GNFS/a                                          725.6     824.9    633.7       726.4      638.6      6977      S21.7         918.5
Merchandise (FOB)                                           590.3     670.9    458.4      549.1       450.5     496.0      584.7         663 8
Nonfactor servicss                                          135.3     154.0    1753        177.3      188.1      201.7     237.0         254.7
Total Imports ofGNFS                                            1600.9    1651 3    1870.8    1833.6       1860.5    19943      2145.0       2305.1
Merchandise (FOB)                                          1218.3    1246.3   1411.2    1376.4       1393.4    1477.4    1585.7         1706.3
Nonfactor services                                          382.6     405.0    4596        457.2      467.1      516.9     559.3         598.8
Resource balance                                                -875 3    -826.4  -12371    -11072    -1221.9   -1296 6    -1323 3           -1386.6
Net factor income                                                 -45.8     -16.5     -8.5      -14.1       -15 2       -7.8      -6 0           0 3
Factor receipts                                              21.5       38.4     42.6       49.5        48.8      55 7       61 2          74.0
Factor payments                                              67.3       54.9     511        63.6        64.0      63.5       67.2          73.7
Interest (scheduled)                                    54.1       44.5     44.8       44.8        48.2      438        46.2          51.1
Total interest paid/ b                            54.1       44.5     44.8       44.8        48.2      43.8       46.2          51.1
Net adjustments to scheduled interest               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0o0            0.0
Other factor payments                                    13.2      10.4       6.3       18.8       15.8      19 7       21 0          22.6
Net private current transfers                                    421.1     322.1    539.2       375.0       424.4     427.9      426.4         477.4
Current receipts, of which                                  421.1     322.1    5392        375.0      424.4      427.9      4264         4774
Current account balance (before grants)                         -500.0    -520.9   -706.4    -746.3       -812.7    -876.5    -902.9         -908.9
Current account balance (after grants)                          -223.0    -213.0   -327.0    -470.0        -475.0    -471.0    -499 0         -487.0
Official capital grants                                          276.6     307.4    379.8       276.5       337.3     405.7      403 8         4218
Private investment (net)                                         110.4     160.0    190.0       230.0      214.5      228.6      245.9         2682
Direct foreign investment                                   1104      160.0    190.0      230.0       214.5     228.6      2459          268.2
Net LT/c borrowing                                               210.1     209.5    194.8       191.3       243.5     265.4      2574          2368
Disbursements/b                                             282.4     276.4    262.8       266.8      325.0      347.0     342.9         330.2
Repayments (scheduled)                                       72.3      66.9      68.0       75.5       81.5       81.6      85 5          93.4
Total principal repaid/b                              23.1      -19.1      29.8        3.7       -0.9      -250      -15.0         -12.5
Net adjustments to scheduled repayments                49.2      86.0      38.2      71 8        82.4      106.6     100.5         105.9
Adjustments to scheduled debt service                             49.2      86.0      38.2       71.8        82.4     106 6      100.5         105.9
Debt service not paid                                        58.1      86.0    100.2       131.2      297.5      106.6     100.5         105.9
Reduction in arrears/prepayments(-)                          -8.9       0.0    -62.0       -594      -215.1        0.0       00            0.0
Other capital flows                                               -71 1    -124.6     17.9       20.5       -12.2     -28.7      -15.9         -11 3
Net short-term capital                                      -69.0      -8.2       2.5       12 6       -12 2     -28 7      -15 9         -11 3
Netcapitalflowsn.e.i./d                                      -1.7       30        03        -6.6        00         0.0        0.0          0.0
Errors and omissions                                          8.2     -97.9      48.4       14.5        00         0.0       0.0           0.0
Change in net intemational reserves                               -73 0    -132.3   -133.6      -33 3       -35.6    -101 0      -88.8        -112 5
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandum items
Total gross reserves, of which                               479.5     621 7     750.3      747.9      823.7      8582       924.0         996 1
Total reserves minus gold                              479.5      621.7    750.3      747.9       823.7     858.2      924.0         996.1
Gold (at year-end London price)                           0.0       00        0.0        0.0        0.0       0o0        0.0           0.0
Total gross reserves (in months'imports G&SeYe                 3.4       4.4       4.7        4.7         5.1       50         5.0           5.0
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/USS)f                                     1012.8    10581    1149.7    1362.0        1510.6    1622.7    16748          1729.2
At end year (LCUIJUSS)                                        1029 6    1067.5   1232.0    1452.6        1525.0    1654.2    17074          1762.8
Index real average exchange rate (YR91 =100)                    35.6      36 4      37.2       32 3        33.0      33.0       33 0          33.0
Current Account Balance as % GDP                                   -8.3      -8.3    -10.4      -11.6       -12.9     -13.4      -12.6         -11.7
a. Goods and nonfactor services.
b. 'Data-YR'torical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. "LT" denotes "long-term."
d. "n.e.i." denotes "not elsewhere included."
e. "G & S" denotes "goods and services."
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflects USS/LCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.



Annex 8
page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Active Prolects                                                                                                                            Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                                   Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                            Originai Amount in USS Miiiions                    Disburseunents La
Project ID    Project Name                                Development   Implementation         Fiscal Year    IBRD      IDA  GRANT   Cancel.         Undisb.         Orig.    Frm Rev'd
Oblectives       Progress
P059127      AGRIC.RES & TRNG. II                              S                S                1999             0       26       0         0          22.7          4.3            0
P002977      COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                               S                S               1994             0       14       0         0           0.4          0.6          -0.6
P002971      DISTRICT HEALTH                                   S                 S               1995             0       45       0         0             6          2.9            0
P057007      EL NINO EMERG RD REP                              U                U                1998             0     27.6       0         0          23.4         24.5            0
P002978      ENVIRONMENTAL MGMT & CAPACITY BLDG                S                 S               1996             0     11.8       0         0           1.8            3           1.6
P035311      PAMSU-GEF                                         S                 8               1999             0        0      9.1        D             0            0            0
P002941      ICB-PAMSU                                          S               S                1999             0     12.4       0         0           4.5          2.8            0
P044213      FIN MKTS ASSISTANCE                                S                U               1999             0       13       0         0          12.6          8.9            0
P002976      INST. CAPACITY BLDG                               S                 S               1995             0     36.4       0         0           3.2          5.6            0
P046870      LAKE VICTORIA ENV.-GEF                            S                 #               1997             0        0     12.1        0           6.1          3.5            0
P046836      LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                 S                S               1997             0     12.1       0         0           4.8          2.4            0
P002992      LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                            S                 S               2000             0     80.9       0         0          65.1        -10.3            0
P059223      NAKiVUBOCHANNELREH                                 S                S               1999             0     22.4       0         0          19.9          11.2           0
P040551      NUTRIT.CHILD DEV                                   S                S               1998             0       34       0         0            25          6.2            0
P002929      POWER III                                          S                S               1991             0      158       0         0          17.6        -10.2         128.2
P002953      PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                              S                 S               1993             0     52.6       0         0           4.2          4.1           2.3
P035634      PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                               S                S                1996            0     12.3       0        2.2          2.6           5.7           0
P050439      PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM                               #               2001             0     48.5       0         0          47.4            0            0
P049543      ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP                                5                5                1998            0       30       0         0            23         24.7            0
P002970      ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                                S                 S                1999            0       91       0         0          83.4          6.3            0
P002987      SAC III                                           S                 S                1997            0    150.4       0         0          64.8         42.7          42.1
P002963      SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                   S                 S               1994             0       50       0         0           5.3            6            0
P002957      SMALL TOWNS WATER                                  S                S                1994            0     42.3       0         0           6.8           7.6           0
P044679      SECOND ECONOMIC AND FIN. MGMT. PROJECT             S                S               2000             0       34       0         0          29.6           5.6           0
P072482      HIVIAIDS                                          #                                 2001             0     47.5       0         0          47.4            0            0
TOTAL                                                                                                      0   1052.2    21.2       2.2         627.6        158.1        173.6
Active Prolects    Closed Prouects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD & IDA in US$m)                                                   522                     1,966            2,488
of which has been repaid                                                                0                      294              294
Total now held by IBRD, IDA (Net of Cancellations in US$m)                            1,050                    1,936            2,986
Amount sold                                                                              0                       25                25
of which has been repaid                                                                0                       25               25
Total Undisbursed (IBRD & IDA in US$m)                                                 528                       19              547
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 8
page 2 of 2
Uganda
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1996        AEF Agro Mgmt    0.60   0.40  0.00  0.00   0.55   0.40  0.00   0.00
1992        AEF Clovergem     0.84   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.84   0.00  0.00   0.00
1997        AEF Conrad Plaza   1.13   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.13   0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        AEF Exec. Invmnt   1.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1999        AEF Gomba         1.40   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.40   0.00  0.00   0.00
2001        AEF Kabojia       0.35   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        AEF Kampala Flwr  0.50   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
2000        AEF Kasambya      0.99   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1997        AEFKiwaII         0.16   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.16   0.00  0.00   0.00
2000        AEF Ladoto        0.80   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.80   0.00  0.00   0.00
2000        AEF LongFreight   0.80   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        AEF Mosa Court    0.64   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.64   0.00  0.00   0.00
1993        AEF Nile Roses    0.16   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.16   0.00  0.00   0.00
1995        AEF Rainbow       0.79   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.79   0.00  0.00   0.00
1993        AEF Rwenzori      0.35   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.35   0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        AEF SkayElectro   0.22   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1994        AEF Skyblue       0.51   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.51   0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        AEF White Nile    0.28   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.28   0.00  0.00   0.00
1999        AEF Wstem Hgh    0.50   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
1994        Celtel            0.43   0.64  0.80  0.00   0.43   0.64  0.80   0.00
2000        Celtel Uganda     4.00   0.70  0.00  0.00   2.40   0.70  0.00   0.00
1984/92     DFCU              0.00   0.98  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.98  0.00   0.00
1993        Jubilee           0.00   0.10  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.10  0.00   0.00
1996        Kasese Cobalt    12.00   3.60  0.00  0.00  12.00   3.60  0.00   0.00
1998        Tilda Rice        2.28   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.78   0.00  0.00   0.00
1995/96     Uganda Leasing    0.98   0.33  0.00  0.00   0.38   0.33  0.00   0.00
1983/97     Uganda Sugar      5.08   0.00  0.00  0.00   5.08   0.00  0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:      36.79   6.75  0.80  0.00  30.68   6.75  0.80   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998        AEF Ram Oil       1.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   1.00   0.00  0.00  0.00



