Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4068-PE
                             Project Agreement
           (Second Social Development and Compensation Fund Project)
                                   between
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
               FONDO NACIONAL DE COMPENSACION Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL
                              Dated August 21, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4068-PE
                                 PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO NACIONAL DE
COMPENSACION Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL (FONCODES).
     WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Peru (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that FONCODES agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     WHEREAS FONCODES, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
Page  2
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) FONCODES declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project, with the participation of the
Executing Entities, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental
practices and the Operational Manual, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the provisions in para-
graph (a) above, FONCODES shall:
          (i)  enter into agreements, under terms and conditions
               satisfactory to the Bank, with Executing Entities for
               purposes of the carrying out of Subprojects; such
               agreements to include the terms and conditions set
               forth in the Schedule to this Agreement; and
          (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in
               such a manner as to: (A) protect the interests of the
               Bank, the Borrower and FONCODES; (B) comply with its
               obligations under this Agreement; and (C) achieve the
               purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) FONCODES shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, FONCODES shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months
               after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
               agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
               Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
               and
          (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with FONCODES on said plan.
     Section 2.04. (a) FONCODES shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project;
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and each
Subproject Agreement; the performance of the Executing Entities
under their respective Subproject Agreements; and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  FONCODES shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by FONCODES of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (c)  FONCODES shall, not later than March 1 and September 1 of
each year of Project execution, starting on March 1, 1997, prepare
and submit to the Bank progress reports, of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project on the basis of the Monitoring
Indicators.
     Section 2.05. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions
of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, FONCODES shall:
Page  3
     (a)  hold two annual reviews, during the months of June 30, 1997
and June, 1998 respectively, with the Borrower and the Bank, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress made in
carrying out the Project with special emphasis on the Annual Review
Items. In assessing progress made in the carrying out of the Project,
the Bank shall utilize, inter alia, the Monitoring Indicators; and
     (b)  without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's
rights under the Loan Agreement, if as a result of any of the above
annual reviews, the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of
the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, FONCODES shall
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall
be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or for the
achievement of its objectives.
     Section 2.06. FONCODES shall: (a) refrain from providing any kind
of loan guarantees; and (b) carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.07. FONCODES shall retain, not later than December 31,
1996, the services of an independent entity, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out evaluations of
Subprojects which have been completed.
     Section 2.08. FONCODES shall perform all its obligations, and
exercise all its rights, under the Subsidiary Agreement and Subproject
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of FONCODES, the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FONCODES shall not amend,
abrogate, assign, waive, or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement,
the Subproject Agreements, or any provision thereof.
                                ARTICLE III
                  Management and Operations of FONCODES
     Section 3.01. FONCODES shall:
     (a)  carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers;
     (b)  without limitation or restriction to the provisions in para-
graph (a) above, maintain an executive director, general manager, line
managers and an environmental expert, each with experience, qualifi-
cations and functions acceptable to the Bank; and
     (c)  maintain the salaries of all FONCODES managers and pro-
fessional staff at competitive market levels.
     Section 3.02. FONCODES shall at all times operate and maintain
its facilities, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and administra-
tive practices.
     Section 3.03. FONCODES shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) FONCODES shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition including records
and separate accounts for the Project.
Page  4
     (b)  FONCODES shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested and including an assessment of the adequacy
               of internal controls to minimize the possibility of
               misuse of funds or other improprieties; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
or for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made
from the Special Account, FONCODES shall provide to the Borrower all
records and accounts necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its
obligations punctually under Article IV of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01
of this Agreement, FONCODES shall: (a) have an adequate sample of
Subprojects, selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, every semester during the
execution of the Project; such audit to include a review of the pro-
curement procedures and documentation related to the selected Sub-
projects; and (b) furnish to the Bank, not later than two months
after the end of each such semester, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
     Section 4.03. FONCODES shall open, and thereafter maintain, a
separate account in local currency for the purpose of receiving, and
accounting for, the counterpart funds required for the Project.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of FONCODES thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify FONCODES thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
Page  5
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     For FONCODES:
          Fondo Nacional de Compensacin
             y Desarrollo Social
          Avenida de la Repblica 3101
          Lima,
          Peru
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of FONCODES, or by FONCODES on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Executive
Director or such other person or persons as the Executive Director
shall designate in writing, and FONCODES shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first
above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                    FONDO NACIONAL DE COMPENSACION
                      Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL
                    By /s/ Jaime Yoshiyama
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                         Terms and Conditions of
                          Subproject Agreements
Page  6
                  (Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement)
     Without limitation upon any of the obligations of FONCODES set
forth in the Project Agreement, FONCODES shall ensure that all
Subproject Agreements include provisions adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and FONCODES including:
     (a)  the requirements that the Executing Entity: (i) carry out
the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with the Operational Manual and sound technical, financial, environ-
mental and managerial practices; and (ii) maintain adequate records
and accounts;
     (b)  the requirements that: (i) the goods, works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively for
the Subproject in question;
     (c)  the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with represen-
tatives of the Bank, if the Bank so requests, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Subproject in
question, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
     (d)  the right to obtain all such information as the Bank,
FONCODES or the Executing Entity shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration and operation of the
Subproject and to the benefits to be derived therefrom;
     (e)  the requirement that the Executing Entity retain, prior
to the execution of the relevant Subproject, an inspector with
qualifications and experience acceptable to FONCODES, for purposes
of monitoring the proper execution and completion of the relevant
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manual; and
     (f)  the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Executing Entity to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Executing Entity to comply with its respective obligations
under the Subproject Agreement.
