Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4068-PE
                             Loan Agreement
         (Second Social Development and Compensation Fund Project)
                                between
                            REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                  and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 21, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4068-PE
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Interamerican
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $150,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
     (C)  the Project will be carried out by Fondo Nacional de
Compensacin y Desarrollo Social (FONCODES) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to FONCODES the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and FONCODES;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Annual Review Items" means the specific items, agreed between
FONCODES and the Bank, to receive primary emphasis in the annual reviews
referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement (as hereinafter
defined) and which items are described in the letter of even date here-
with from FONCODES to the Bank;
     (b)  "Beneficiary Group" means a group of individuals who are
appointed by the community benefiting from a Subproject (as hereinafter
defined), all in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), to carry out a
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) and "Beneficiary Groups" means all
of such groups of individuals;
     (c)  "By-laws" means the by-laws (Estatuto) of FONCODES as approved
by the Borrower's Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 057-93-PCM dated
August 18, 1993 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (El
Peruano) dated August 19, 1993, as amended from time to time;
     (d)  "Charter" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree (Decreto
Legislativo) No. 657 dated August 14, 1991 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette (El Peruano) dated August 15, 1991 and the
Borrower's Decree Law (Decreto Ley) No. 26157 dated December 24, 1992
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (El Peruano) dated
December 30, 1992, all as amended from time to time;
     (e)  "Community-based Subproject" means a community executed, labor
intensive project for economic infrastructure, social infrastructure or
social services as described further in the letter of even date herewith
from FONCODES to the Bank;
     (f)  "Executing Entity" means a public entity, private entity or a
Beneficiary Group which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and which proposes to carry
out or is carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), and
Page  3
"Executing Entities" means all of such entities and Beneficiary Groups;
     (g)  "Monitoring Indicators" means the monitoring indicators for
purposes of assessing progress in the execution of the Project and in
the achievement of its objectives as such monitoring indicators are
described in the letter of even date herewith from FONCODES to the
Bank;
     (h)  "Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by
FONCODES, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant
to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and which manual includes,
inter alia:
          (i)  the administrative, promotion, eligibility, appraisal
               and supervision criteria and procedures to be followed
               in the carrying out of Subprojects;
         (ii)  standard Subproject designs to be utilized in the
               poorest communities;
        (iii)  criteria and procedures for community participation
               including the establishment and functioning of
               Beneficiary Groups and minimum levels of beneficiary
               contribution required for Subprojects;
         (iv)  guidelines for the involvement of vulnerable populations,
               particularly indigenous peoples and women, at all stages
               of the Subproject cycle including a development strategy
               and plan for indigenous peoples;
          (v)  criteria and procedures for coordination and cooperation
               between FONCODES and other governmental agencies and
               entities to ensure proper evaluation, execution, operation
               and maintenance of the Subprojects; and
         (vi)  environmental criteria and procedures to be applied in
               Subproject design and implementation; as such manual may
               be changed from time to time by agreement between the
               Bank and FONCODES;
     (i)  "Productive Subprojects" means a project to support the increase
of production for autoconsumption or for sale in local markets of low-
income families as described further in the letter of even date herewith
from FONCODES to the Bank;
     (j)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
FONCODES of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
     (k)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Subproject Agreement" means each of the agreements to be
entered into between FONCODES and Executing Entities as referred to
in Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement;
     (m)  "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FONCODES pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement; and
     (n)  "Subproject" means a Community-based Subroject or a Productive
Subproject, which is eligible for financing by FONCODES in accordance
with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
Page  4
of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
               Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
               borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
               may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
               interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
               months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
               preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
Page  5
               applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
               Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period com-
               mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
               a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement: (i) shall cause FONCODES
to perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the pro-
vision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable FONCODES to perform such obligations; and
(iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance;
     (b)  without limitation or restriction to the provisions in the
above paragraph (a), the Borrower shall make available the proceeds
of the Loan to FONCODES under an agreement under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank; and
     (c)  the Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations and
exercise all of its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating,
waiving or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out, or caused
to be carried out, by FONCODES pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement; and (b)
take or cause to be taken any action as recommended pursuantto to
Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement.
                              ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and separate
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year after
               the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
               was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and separate accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested, including a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
               of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and separate accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall deposit at the beginning of each
month in the local currency account referred to in Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement such amounts as shall be necessary to cover its
counterpart share of the anticipated payments during that month for
expenditures on account of goods, works or services procured or to be
procured under the Project.
                               ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  FONCODES shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that FONCODES will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Charter or the By-laws shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Bank, materially and adversely the ability of FONCODES to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FONCODES
or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The conditions of first disbursement under the IDB Loan
Agreement shall have not been fulfilled by not later than ninety days
Page  7
after the Effective Date, or such date as the Bank may agree, provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of the IDB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
                    or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                    terms of the IDB Loan Agreement; or
               (B)  the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior
                    to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                    such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                    Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                    under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this Agreement
shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraphs (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)
(ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the
Borrower and FONCODES; and
      (b) the Operational Manual has been adopted by FONCODES.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by FONCODES, and is legally binding upon FONCODES in
accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FONCODES
in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that the Operational Manual has been duly adopted by FONCODES.
     Section 6.03. The date November 19, 1996 is hereby specified for
Page  8
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Jirn Junn 319
          Lima 1, Per
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF PERU
                    By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickmann
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated           % of
                         (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Page  9
(1)  Works, goods         141,800,000        35%
     and technical
     assistance under
     Part A.1 of
     the Project
(2)  Works, goods           4,300,000        35%
     and technical
     assistance under
     Part A.2 of
     the Project
     under Subprojects
     for special
     productive purposes
               )
(3)  Goods and              2,100,000       100% of foreign
     equipment under                        expenditures and
     Part B of the                          75% of local
     Project                                expenditures
(4)  Technical              1,800,000       100%
     assistance,
     training and
     consultant
     services and
     Part B of the
     Project
                          ___________
          TOTAL           150,000,000
                          ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $15,000,000, may be made in respect of any Category on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
March 5, 1996.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for: (a) civil works costing less than US$250,000 equivalent
with the exception of the first contract procured under national
competitive bidding procedures; (b) goods and equipment costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by consulting firms
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (d) services provided by
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and
(e) training related expenditures, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a)
sustaining its poverty alleviation efforts; (b) strengthening local
capabilities in the preparation, execution, operation and maintenance
of investments in infrastructure and public services; and (c)
strengthening the institutional capabilities of FONCODES.
Page  10
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Poverty Alleviation
     Support of FONCODES' poverty alleviation efforts through:
1.   The execution of Community-based Subprojects; and
2.   The execution of Productive Subprojects.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of FONCODES
1.   Strengthening the institutional capabilities of FONCODES through:
(1) the decentralization of FONCODES' operations to its regional
offices; (2) training of FONCODES staff in project management including
the operation of the management information system and participatory
methods to increase the involvement of women and indigenous people in
Subprojects; (3) development and operation of a maenagement information
system; and (4) technical assistance related to the implementation and
supervision of the Project including ex-post evaluations of Subprojects
and support in the preparation and implementation of Subprojects.
2.   Training of municipal staff, non-governmental organizations' staff
and selected community leaders in the preparation, operation and
maintenance of Subprojects.
                                * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
     On each March 1
         and September 1
     beginning March 1, 2002
         through September 1, 2013      6,250,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
Page  11
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable
                               to the Loan on the day of prepay-
                               ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                    1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising.
     The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with
Page  12
the procedures applicable to large contractors under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent and more
than $50,000 per contract and $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggre-
gate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be
utilized in the procurement of goods awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent and more than
$60,000 equivalent per contract and $125,000,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from, at least, three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.   International or National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$42,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.   Community Participation
     Civil works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $60,000 or less per contract, and $1725,000,000 equiva-
lent in the aggregate, and equipment and construction materials under
Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract for equipment and $25,000 or less per contract for
construction materials, and $63,000,000 in the aggregate, shall be
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational
Manual. Such procedures shall be on the basis of standard regionalized
unit prices agreed from time to time between the Bank and FONCODES,
provided, however, that no more than $935,000 equivalent shall be
awarded directly for any particular Subproject. Starting on July 1,
1996, and every six months thereafter, the Borrower shall cause
FONCODES to review the said prices then in effect, and to revise said
prices if, in the opinion of the Bank, the review shows that the
revision is justified.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract for works and each contract for
goods procured under international competitive bidding procedures; and
Page  13
(b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
4.   Prior approval
     The Bank shall approve any amendment of contracts procured under
the procedures referred to in Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 of this Schedule and
raising the contract value to $250,000, $50,000 or $60,000 equivalent
or above, respectively.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
Page  14
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
