Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7718-TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Electricity Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 12, 2009  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7718-TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 12, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred forty eight million and 
four hundred thousand Euro (EUR 548,400,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one  
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
Page  3
2
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non -payment  
 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;  (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
Page  4
3
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Basbakanlik 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek – Ankara 
Turkey 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(312) 212-8550 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  5
4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By: /s/ Ibrahim H. Canakci  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ulrich Zachau  
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has approved an updated Electricity Sector Strategy which 
provides for adequate measures to meet 
Turkey’s growing electricity demand in an 
efficient and sustainable manner. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has enacted Law No. 5784 published in the Official Gazette on 
July 26, 2008 amending the Electricity Market Law No. 4628 dated February 20, 2001 to 
monitor, evaluate and take measures to ensure security of electricity supply. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has approved modified balancing and settlement regulations, 
published in the Official Gazette on April 14, 2009, to improve the functioning of the 
wholesale electricity market. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has decided to provide, on a priority basis, the necessary budgetary 
allocations in line with approved transmission system investment plans. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has approved revisions to retail electricity prices to offset the 
impact of increases in the cost of supply. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has approved a cost-based pricing mechanism that automatically 
covers future increases in costs incurred by the Turkish Lignite Company, 
TETA , 
EˆA , TEDA  and BOTA 
,
including the costs of electricity obtained on the wholesale 
market, and provides for periodic mandatory filings. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has modified the process for payment for street lighting through 
the Law No. 5784 published in the Official Gazette on July 26, 2008. 
 
8. 
The bidding process for privatization of the first two lots of electricity 
distribution companies has been launched by the Borrower’s Privatization 
Administration, with winning bidders determined for the first two distribution companies 
in July 2008 and for the next two distribution companies in September 2008. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has issued secondary regulations for implementation of the Energy 
Efficiency Law No. 5627 dated May 2, 2007 which covers, 
inter alia
,
authorizations for 
provision of training and research and development services; support to companies to 
augment their energy efficiency efforts and implementation of projects under voluntary 
agreements; implementation of supply side management; measures to increase efficiency 
Page  8
7
in electricity generation, transmission and distribution systems; measures to increase 
energy efficiency in the public sector; and energy efficiency in the transport sector. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. 
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Single Tranche 
 
548,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
548,400,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Loan 
into this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any 
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each May 15 and  November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2021  
 
through November 15, 2024 
 
from May 15, 2025 
 
through November 15, 2025 
 
from May 15, 2026 
 
through May  15, 2032 
 
5% 
 
0% 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
Page  10
9
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“BOTA
 
”
means Boru Hatlari 
ile Petrol Ta ûma A. ., a joint stock company 
established and operating pursuant to its Articles of Association published in the 
Official Gazette dated April 17, 2005. 
 
2. 
“Electricity Sector Strategy” means Electricity Market and Security of Supply 
Strategy approved by the Borrower’s High Planning Council on May 18, 2009. 
 
3. 
“EMRA” means the Energy Market Regulatory Authority established and 
operating pursuant to the Electricity Market Law No. 4628 dated February 20, 
2001. 
 
4. “EUA
 Ú means Elektrik ˆretim A. ., a joint stock company established and 
operating pursuant to the Council of Minister’s Decree dated March 2, 2001. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank has financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Page  12
11
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that an event 
has occurred under Section 7.03(c)(i) of the General Conditions. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve an efficient, reliable and adequate supply of electricity, as well as 
efficiency in its consumption, which program is set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated May 18, 2009, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan set forth in the table in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
9. “TEDA
 
”
means Turkiye Elektrik Dagitim A. 
 
.,
a
joint stock company 
established and operating pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Decree No. 
93/4789 dated August 12, 1993. 
 
Page  13
12
10. 
“TETA
 
”
means Turkiye Elektrik Ticaret Ve Taahhut A. 
 ., a joint stock 
company established and operating pursuant to the Council of Minister’s Decree 
dated March 2, 2001. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing 
Front-end Fee and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the 
repayment out of the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on 
behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after 
the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  14
13
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put 
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
Page  15
14
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
