Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: 44532 
Operation Name 
PROGRAMMATIC ELECTRICITY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT 
POLICY LOAN 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (80%); General energy sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P110643 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Ministry of Energy and Natural 
Resources 
Date PID Prepared 
June 20, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 3, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
October 14, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Turkish Government embarked on an extensive structural reform program as a response to the severe 
economic crisis experienced in 2001 and in order to break away from the instabilities and inefficiencies of 
the previous decade.  Increasing fragilities in the macroeconomic structure owing to the fiscal and 
monetary policies implemented during the 1990s moved the Turkish economy away from a stable growth 
path.  The increasing debt stock and the resultant high real interest rate environment caused inflation to 
become chronic, and domestic savings were directed towards financing public deficits rather than funding 
productive investments.  The Turkish Government responded to the 2001 crisis with a well-designed 
economic program of tight monetary, fiscal, and incomes policies and wide ranging structural reforms in 
order to address the challenges raised by the severe economic crisis. 
With the determined implementation of the reform program, the Turkish economy has gone through 
significant structural changes initiated to restore macroeconomic stability and make the economy more 
efficient, flexible and productive  A strong fiscal adjustment with a large public sector primary surplus 
target has been at the center of the economic program implemented since then.  The fiscal adjustment has 
been accompanied by ongoing implementation of a comprehensive long-term Government program to 
modernize the institutions and procedures of public sector management.  The process of EU accession 
that was launched on October 3, 2005 has also become an important force for the continuation and 
deepening of these reforms.  Consistent with these needs, the authorities have adopted a program of 
sustained medium-term legal, institutional, and structural developments aimed at promoting growth, 
improving public service delivery, strengthening public governance and the judicial system, and 
reforming the social security system.  
Efficiency in the supply and consumption of electricity is an important element of this program.  The 
Turkish electricity sector has been undergoing extensive reforms, with the vision of increased private 
sector participation in a competitive market leading to the efficient and cost-effective provision of 
electricity.  However, due to a number of factors, Turkey has not succeeded in attracting required levels 
of private sector investment in new generation to enable electricity supply to keep pace with the high rate 
of demand growth.  Realizing the importance of addressing this situation so as to avoid or minimize 
adverse macroeconomic and social impacts, the Government has embarked upon a program of measures, 
the objectives of which is to achieve an efficient, reliable and adequate supply of electricity, as well as 
efficiency in its consumption. 
Page  2
2
To support the authorities in the implementation of this program, two programmatic single-tranche 
Electricity Sector Development Policy Loans (DPLs) are proposed.  Both loans would support the 
implementation of the Government’s updated energy sector strategy.  The specific actions are drawn from 
the Government’s Action Plan for 2008 and actions likely to be undertaken by mid-2009.  The PEDPL 
will support policy actions in five areas to: (a) maintain an enabling macroeconomic framework; (b) 
improve sustainable electricity supply security; (c) ensure financial viability of the electricity sector; (d) 
improve operational efficiency and the conditions for attracting future private investments; and (e) 
improve energy efficiency in the supply and consumption of electricity. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The PEDPL will support the implementation of the Government’s program that aims to address the 
projected electricity supply-demand imbalance (a) through energy efficiency measures to reduce the rate 
of growth of demand for electricity, and (b) by enhancing the efficient supply of electricity.  
The design of the program being supported by the PEDPL series recognizes that, with high probability, 
electricity shortages cannot be avoided in the short-term.  The basic thrust of the policy actions in the 
program is to minimize the magnitude and the duration of the shortages so that the macroeconomic and 
social impact is minimized, while also supporting a range of structural measures to improve overall 
energy efficiency and sustainability.  
Specific actions that the DPL supports draw and build on the Government’s Action Plan for 2008 and 
actions likely to be undertaken by mid-2009.  As the Government’s energy policy program and actions 
evolve, they will drive the program content and timing of the planned energy DPLs.  The policy matrix 
for the proposed operation is organized around the following areas, in addition to continued sound 
macroeconomic policies: 
Policy Area A: Improving Sustainable Electricity Supply Security.  
Turkey is likely to face shortages 
of electricity, starting in the near future, due to growing demand generated by strong economic growth 
and rising social standards.  Hence, improving the efficient and reliable supply of electricity, at a 
reasonable cost, is a priority requirement if strong economic growth is to be maintained. 
Policy Area B: Ensuring Financial Viability of the Electricity Sector.  
Electricity tariffs that are 
adequate to cover supply costs are needed for encouraging more efficient consumption patterns, 
improving the incentives for private investment and providing adequate resources for efficient 
maintenance of the existing facilities. 
Policy Area C:  Improving Operational Efficiency and the Conditions for Attracting Future Private 
Investments.
 
Reforms to assist in the achievement of these objectives include recommencing efforts to 
privatize distribution companies; initiating steps for the privatization of selected generation plants; and 
introducing a capacity mechanism and undertaking additional measures to support investments in new 
generation capacity. 
Policy Area D:  Improving Energy Efficiency in the Supply and Consumption of Electricity.
 
Efforts 
to improve efficiency in the supply and consumption of electricity are of critical importance for ensuring 
efficient use of electricity and reducing the rate of demand growth.  An Energy Efficiency Law has been 
passed, and regulations are under preparation.  Effective implementation of the law and the regulations 
will gradually serve to enhance efficient consumption and slow the rate of demand growth. 
Page  3
3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
World Bank support to the implementation of the program with this Loan is justified because: (i) the 
program supports a critical component of the Government’s efforts to achieve the vision set out in the 
Ninth Development Plan; and (ii) the authorities have strong ownership of the program as evidenced by 
the fact that they are on track to implement successfully several key elements of the Government’s 
program - some of which were challenging and decisions on which had been delayed in the past.  
The Government’s program puts great emphasis on improving the efficiency and quality of public 
services, and a key element in this is the supply of electricity.  As a result of rapidly growing demand 
generated by strong growth and rising social standards, electricity supply shortages can emerge in the near 
future and these could have significant macroeconomic implications.  Efforts to improve efficiency and 
improve demand management are yet to have a significant impact and need to be enhanced.  Necessary 
levels of private sector investments required for ensuring that supply keeps pace with demand growth 
have not been realized, and the options for significant imports being available are also limited in the near 
term.  There is thus a need for increasing investments in domestic generation and transmission capacity.  
This will entail both measures to encourage greater private sector investment, as well as enhanced public 
sector investments to meet the shortfall between the required level of investments and the investment 
expected to be realized from the private sector.   
The Government is developing a national electricity strategy aimed at meeting Turkey’s growing 
electricity demand in an efficient and sustainable manner.  The strategy is expected to include measures 
such as the following, some of which are already being implemented:  
 
à
increasing energy efficiency and improving demand management;   
à
ensuring cost-reflective electricity tariffs, reducing electricity losses, and improving collections 
from municipalities to improve the financial viability of the sector and thereby improve the incentives 
for private investment;  
à
privatizing the distribution network and selected existing generation plants; improving the 
functioning of the wholesale market; and introducing a capacity mechanism and measures for 
supporting investments in new generation capacity; and   
à
continuing investments in the gas sector to ensure adequacy of gas supply to meet residential, 
industrial and power generation needs. 
The Government has requested the Bank to continue its partnership with Turkey to support the 
development of a sustainable energy sector and thereby contribute to sustaining rapid economic growth.  
The emphasis on the energy sector in the new CPS reflects the importance of energy security and energy 
efficiency for the whole economy, as well as the priority the Government places on the energy sector and 
in continued substantial Bank engagement. 
4. Financing 
The IBRD loan amount for each DPL is expected to be around US$ _____ [TBD]
1
million equivalent. 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources will be responsible 
for overall implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions 
among other concerned ministries and agencies.  Responsibilities for monitoring the adequacy of 
electricity supply, evaluating the effectiveness of the measures being taken to reduce demand and increase 
1
The loan amount for PEDPL 1 is currently expected to be about US$ 400 million, with the final amount yet to be 
decided. 
Page  4
4
efficient supply, and recommending additional measures when required will be clearly specified in the 
updated strategy.  
The Government and the Bank will jointly monitor implementation.  This will primarily focus on the 
impact outcomes of the program and the adjustments that need to be made to the operation as it evolves, 
to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, and feasible options for 
realizing the intended development goals.  The review will be largely based on the monitoring indicators 
and the goals of the program.  At the same time, the overall status of the Government’s program will be 
monitored to determine whether the specific conditions of the proposed operation have been met.  
Continuation of the Bank’s advisory and analytical activities in this sector will help in the monitoring and 
evaluation activities. 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
Benefits.  
The potential benefits of the policies and reforms supported by the loan are substantial.  These 
include long term macroeconomic stability and efficient and reliable supply of electricity at a reasonable 
cost.  An enabling macroeconomic framework and efficiency in the supply and consumption of electricity 
will be important drivers for sustaining the growth experienced by Turkey since 2002, generating 
employment, supporting the competitiveness of Turkish industry, and improving the living standards of 
its people. 
The program is also expected to mitigate what could otherwise be considerable negative impacts if 
sizeable electricity shortages are allowed to develop.  The coping mechanisms available to the poor are 
limited, and the adverse impact of shortages could be disproportionately greater on poor households and 
on the schools and health facilities used by the poor.   
Another significant adverse impact that the program supported by PEDPL seeks to avoid is sub-optimal 
investments resulting from sizeable electricity shortages.  Experience in a number of countries has shown 
that, faced with such a situation, ad-hoc decisions are often taken to seek ‘urgent’ solutions, and these 
often entail heavy and recurring costs.  These either reduce the fiscal space and thus impact growth-
enhancing expenditures, or result in higher tariffs, or a combination of the two.  Ultimately, such sub-
optimal investments negatively impact the poor.   
Risks.  
Turkey’s economic program continues to entail non-negligible risks.  Some risks can be reduced 
by sustained implementation of reforms.  Other risks are outside Turkey’s control.  The main risks factors 
include political economy risks, external vulnerabilities, and electricity sector risks. 
Political economy risks.
 
After the victory of the governing Justice and Development Party in the twin 
Parliamentary and Presidential elections in the summer of 2007, risks of political uncertainty appeared to 
have declined substantially with the new Government having received a strong mandate to continue 
reforms with vigor.  However, the case filed with the Constitutional Court calling for the dissolution of 
the Justice and Development Party creates risks for reform implementation.  The risks for implementation 
of energy sector reforms supported by the proposed loan are mitigated by: (i) the design of the program 
and loan, where all measures supported by the loan will have already been adopted and being 
implemented; and (ii) the fact that the key energy sector reforms enjoy the support of a broad spectrum of 
stakeholders, which makes them likely to be sustainable. 
The possibility of phasing out in 2008 of the program supported by the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF), and of a slower EU accession process, if realized, could also weaken anchors of policy reform that 
until now helped underpin economic policies.  
External vulnerabilities
.
On the external front, the current account deficit (CAD) continues to be a 
source of concern – although it is estimated to have narrowed slightly to 5.7 percent of gross domestic 
product (GDP) in 2007 from 6.1 percent in 2006.  The CAD is significantly sensitive to developments in 
Page  5
5
energy prices give
n
Turkey’s dependence on energy imports.  Sustained high energy prices could have 
several negative macroeconomic impacts: larger CAD, higher inflation, and lower GDP growth. 
Other risk factors include changes in investor sentiment in financial markets and their effect on public 
debt sustainability, spillovers from global liquidity tightening, or fallout from the US sub-prime mortgage 
market distress.  These factors would affect Turkey’s economic situation because of the public debt which 
has a relatively short maturity and is sensitive to exchange and interest rate movements.  Nevertheless, it 
has decreased substantially as a share of GDP since 2001 and is expected to continue to decrease under a 
baseline projection.  The episodes of turmoil in international financial markets during May-June 2006 and 
February 2007 and their impacts on domestic markets showed that, while Turkey is still vulnerable to 
sudden changes in investors’ sentiment, Turkey’s resilience to shocks has substantially increased.  To 
date, the Turkish economy has broadly weathered well the most recent volatility in international markets 
since August 2007.   
Electricity Sector Risks.  
The main electricity sector related risks are the following:  
à
Weakening of the Government’s ownership of the envisaged electricity sector reforms and delays 
in their adoption.  This risk is considered moderate as the Government has clearly indicated its 
commitment to proceeding with these reforms, and has already undertaken two of the more difficult 
actions, i.e. the increase in end-user electricity tariffs with effect from January 2008 and the adoption 
of a mechanism for pass-through of cost variations to the electricity end-user tariff.  These policy 
actions are already included in the Government’s Action Plans and are expected to be included in the 
revised energy sector strategy.  Furthermore, the key energy sector reforms enjoy the support of a 
broad spectrum of stakeholders, which makes them likely to be sustainable. 
à
Delays in implementation of the envisaged reforms due to factors such as capacity constraints 
and/or inadequate fiscal resources available for public investments during the interim period in which 
private investments are not sufficient to meet the overall investment needs.  This risk is high, 
particularly in the context of possible inadequacy of available fiscal resources. 
à
Delays in attracting private investment through privatization of distribution companies and 
selected generation plants stemming from insufficient private sector demand, legal challenges, 
stakeholder opposition, and costly or ineffective privatization.  This risk is high. 
à
Continued high electricity demand growth despite energy efficiency initiatives.  This risk is 
substantial as energy efficiency measures will take time to make a significant impact on the electricity 
demand growth rate. 
à
External developments (i.e. developments largely outside the control of the Government) that 
result in the policy actions failing to achieve a significant level of improvement in the electricity 
supply-demand imbalance.  This risk covers a wide range of possible developments: inadequate 
private investments in new generation capacity; delays in adding new generation capacity due to 
longer delivery periods resulting from the large current worldwide demand for generation equipment; 
adverse hydrological conditions that reduce hydropower generation (e.g. an extended drought); and 
further spikes in international gas prices that would affect generation costs requiring higher end-user 
electricity tariffs.  The cumulative risk is substantial. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impact.  
The actions and reforms supported under the PEDPL program are expected 
to have a positive social impact as they will help to sustain economic growth, which in turn will increase 
employment generation and reduce poverty.  Reducing electricity supply-demand imbalance over the 
medium-term will also help to ensure that electricity supply to households, as well as to education and 
medical facilities, is maintained at acceptable levels.  There is widespread acceptance of the need to 
Page  6
6
ensure security of electricity supply, as has been evident from the discussions in various workshops and 
seminars held on the subject by a wide range of participants representing civil society. 
In a broader context, the program aims to contribute to macroeconomic stability by maintaining an 
enabling macroeconomic environment and thereby creating fiscal space for growth-enhancing 
expenditures.  This will increase employment generation and reduce poverty.  The recent past provides 
evidence of how effective a sustained high growth could be in reducing poverty as about 7 million people 
were pulled out of poverty since 2003.  
In a more specific context, several of the actions supported under the program are expected to mitigate 
what could otherwise be considerable negative impacts.  If sizeable electricity shortages are allowed to 
develop, then it is the poor that could well bear a significant adverse impact, both direct and indirect.  In 
terms of direct impact, other consumers (industrial, commercial and non-poor domestic consumers) will 
to some extent be able to mitigate the impact of shortages by more expensive options that the poor cannot 
afford (e.g. diesel generators).  Even if shortages are handled in an equitable or a pro-poor manner, the 
coping mechanisms available to the poor are limited, and the adverse impact of shortages could be 
disproportionately greater on poor households and on the schools and health facilities used by the poor.  
Reducing the electricity supply-demand imbalance will thus help to ensure that such adverse impacts are 
reduced, or even avoided, and that electricity supply to households is maintained at acceptable levels.  
Another significant adverse impact that the program supported by PEDPL seeks to avoid is sub-optimal 
investments resulting from sizeable electricity shortages.  Experience in a number of countries has shown 
that, faced with such a situation, ad-
hoc decisions are often taken to seek ‘urgent’ solutions, and these 
often entail heavy and recurring costs.  These either reduce the fiscal space and thus impact growth-
enhancing expenditures, or result in higher tariffs, or a combination of the two.  Ultimately, such sub-
optimal investments negatively impact the poor.    
The Government periodically reviews the impact of tariff increases on vulnerable consumers.  The 
Government plans to continue to monitor this aspect and to address required mitigation measures under 
the overall social safety-net.  The Bank is supporting the efforts of the Government to increase the 
sustainability, effectiveness and coverage of the social security system and social safety-net through the 
PPDPL (Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan) program.  The reforms supported under 
the PPDPL series aim to strengthen the social security system, ensure its long-term fiscal sustainability, 
reduce the costs of compliance, extend coverage, and ensure that social assistance receives adequate 
financing and is targeted more effectively.  PPDPL 2 was approved by the Board on June 19, 2008. 
Environment Aspects. 
 Over the last decade, electricity supply has increased from 111 TWh in 1998 to 
190 TWh in 2007, an increase of 71%.  This is the result of economic growth, industrialization, and rising 
social standards.  During the period from 1998 to 2006 (data for 2007 is not yet available), atmospheric 
emissions from thermal power generation also increased significantly (by 45%), but at a slower rate than 
the increase in electricity supply.  This is due to the fact that: (i) Turkey has opted to meet a significant 
part of the increased supply from gas-fired thermal power plants instead of from coal-fired plants, despite 
the fact that gas has to be imported and coal is a significant domestic resource; and (ii) a number of 
measures have been adopted by the Government to reduce emissions from coal-fired plants.   
The increase of 79 TWh in electricity supply has been primarily met (approximately 85%) by an increase 
of 67 TWh in the output from gas-fired thermal power plants (from 25 TWh in 1998 to 92 TWh in 2007).  
In this period, the share of generation from gas-fired thermal power plants has more than doubled (from 
23% to 48%), while there has been a reduction in the share from coal-fired plants (from 32% to 28%) and 
oil-fired plants (from 7% to 4%).  There has been only a limited increase in additional hydropower 
capacity during this period and generation from hydropower has varied between 24 TWh (2001) and 46 
TWh (2004), reflecting the impact of hydrological variations.  Adverse hydrological conditions in 2007 
and recent studies in the context of climate change have indicated a greater risk of droughts in Turkey, 
Page  7
7
which would reduce hydropower output and thereby increase the risk of earlier and larger electricity 
shortages. 
Faced with a continuing high rate of growth in electricity demand, high oil and gas prices, and increasing 
emissions, Turkey is implementing a wide range of measures to moderate the demand growth rate, 
increase efficiencies in the supply and consumption of electricity, and diversify the fuel base for the 
additional generation capacity to be added (including through inviting bids for the addition of 4,000 MW 
of nuclear generation).  The Government realizes that sustaining a high rate of economic development 
will continue to require growth in energy consumption but is committed to minimizing the adverse 
consequences for the environment and the 9th Development Plan calls for minimal environmental damage 
while meeting the energy demand.  
The following outlines some of the steps taken or being taken by the Government to mitigate the 
environmental impact of meeting the increasing electricity demand: 
à
The Renewable Energy Law was passed in May 2005.  This provides a number of incentives to 
encourage an enhanced role for renewable energy.  As a result, there was a significant upsurge in 
private sector interest and investments in renewable energy.   
à
Within this overall renewable energy initiative, considerable emphasis is being placed on the 
development of wind energy.  Turkey has significant wind energy potential (estimated by some 
preliminary studies to be as high as 40,000 MW) and the Government is very keen to expeditiously 
develop as much of this potential as is possible, taking into account system constraints.  Up to June 
2008, there were only 333 MW of installed wind generation capacity available; while 143 MW 
capacity is under implementation.  Licenses for a total of 3,000 MW have been issued so far.  At the 
end of 2007, EMRA invited applications for wind energy licenses and received applications 
amounting to over 78,000 MW.  This clearly indicates that the private sector deems the existing 
regulatory and tariff framework for wind energy to be sufficiently attractive.  According to the 
preliminary results of the latest planning studies, a total of 15,000 MW of wind energy is planned to 
be commissioned by 2020. 
à
The Energy Efficiency Law was enacted in April 2007 with the objective of increasing efficient 
use of energy, alleviating the burden of energy costs for the economy and protecting the environment.  
It covers energy efficiency applications in the electricity, transport and industrial sectors, as well as in 
buildings, and provides for subsidies and other incentive mechanisms.  Draft secondary regulations 
have been prepared and will shortly be issued.  A public awareness campaign has been initiated.  The 
Bank is undertaking a study to define the priority areas where energy efficiency initiatives can 
achieve significant results quickly.  The recommendations of this study will be used as an input in the 
preparation of a line of credit for energy efficiency investments to be financed by the Bank, possibly 
in conjunction with the renewable energy line of credit. 
à
Significant investments are being undertaken to increase supply-side efficiency in generation, 
transmission and distribution, thereby reducing the adverse environmental impact per kWh of 
electricity consumed.  These include rehabilitation of thermal power and hydropower plants; 
upgrading and reinforcement of the transmission and distribution networks to reduce losses; and 
improvements in the SCADA and dispatch systems.   
à
Efforts are being accelerated to complete a number of under-construction hydropower plants. 
à
New thermal power plants are being constructed to comply with applicable Turkish legislation, 
which largely follows the EU’s Large Combustion Plant Directive but currently permits higher 
emission limits.  
Page  8
8
à
Recently completed coal-fired plants have been constructed either with fluidized bed technology 
or with flue gas desulphurization (FGD).  These technologies aim to reduce the SOx content from the 
power plant; the fluidized bed technology also reduces NOx emissions. 
à
Existing coal-fired plants are being retrofitted with FGDs, electrostatic precipitators, 
improvements in ash-handling, etc. despite the high investment requirements.   
à
Seven existing coal-fired plants do not yet have FGDs, primarily due to resource constraints.  
Most of these plants are expected to be privatized in the near future, and it is planned that the new 
owners will be required to carry out required environmental upgrades (including installation of FGDs) 
within a stipulated timeframe after privatization.  
à
A
number of existing oil-fired plants are being converted to gas-fired gas turbines and/or 
combined cycle plants.   
à
In order to minimize the adverse impact of the ash and cinder produced from coal-fired plants, 
ash storage fields with utilized capacity are covered with cultivable soil, and tree plantation activities 
are carried out.  To date, about 600,000 trees have been planted at such sites, covering an area of 
about 840 hectares. 
Progress has been made in updating relevant environmental legislation.  Notable is the amendment of the 
Law on Environment to include significantly large administrative fines against noncompliance (2007), the 
near complete transposition of the EU Directive on Environmental Impact Assessment (2003), and the 
drafting of a bylaw on Strategic Environmental Assessment and of a bylaw mirroring the EU Directive on 
Large Combustion Plants.  Furthermore, Turkey's Integrated EU Environmental Compliance Strategy 
(2006) recognizes the need to enact a bylaw on the right to access environmental information. 
There are a number of significant challenges that still remain, including adoption of the draft law on large 
combustion plants, clarification of regulatory issues concerning accumulated waste, ensuring that 
environmental issues are appropriately dealt with in the privatization process, and importantly the overall 
strengthening of environmental enforcement capacity.  The Government is actively engaged in addressing 
these remaining challenges, though these will take time to implement.  The EU is providing assistance to 
the Government to build capacity for environmental management, regulation, enforcement and 
monitoring, as well as for developing revised legal instruments for nature conservation.  In addition, it is 
providing support for the establishment of the Regional Environment Center, with the objective of 
providing training and capacity building of civil society groups.  The Turkey-EU Environment Screening 
process has been completed and its report was finalized in June 2007. 
Turkey has fairly robust requirements for environmental assessments of energy projects.  Environmental 
management plans are required to cover an assessment of all environmental impacts that would occur 
during construction and operation, the measures to be taken to mitigate these impacts, and the monitoring 
procedures to be followed.  There are specific requirements for public consultation, and for maintaining 
appropriate records of such consultations. 
The policy actions supported by the PEDPL, particularly those pertaining to improving efficiency in the 
supply and consumption of electricity, will have a positive environmental impact.  The impact on GHG 
emissions of the activities supported under the proposed PEDPL is expected to be positive due to its 
emphasis on efficiency improvements in electricity production and consumption.  Specifically, increasing 
efficiency in thermal power generation means burning less fuel to generate the same amount of electricity 
whereby less fuel translates into fewer emissions.  Increased energy efficiency on the consumption side 
means less demand for electricity and hence less generation.  Furthermore, rehabilitation of the 
transmission and distribution networks means reducing technical losses, which again has an impact on the 
amount of electricity generated.  It is also to be noted that improving the reliability of electricity supply 
will help reduce load shedding which in turn will reduce the use of polluting, hazardous and costly small 
generators by businesses and households.  
Page  9
9
In summary, the Government has taken and is continuing to take wide-ranging measures to mitigate the 
environmental impacts of the increased electricity supply required to sustain economic growth and 
support rising living standards.  Compliance with the relevant EU environmental standards is the subject 
of ongoing discussions with the EU.  On its part, the Bank will continue to support and advocate 
measures that will lead to the development of an efficient and sustainable energy sector in Turkey, with 
limited environmental consequences, as part of its sector-wide dialogue and advisory assistance to the 
Government. 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Iftikhar Khalil 
Title: Lead Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4171 
Fax: 202-614-1569 
Email: Ikhalil@worldbank.org 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
