 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14819

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 09/28/2015

               Country: Turkey
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                 3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                 3
             Series ID: S121651
       First Project ID : P110643                                                Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Programmatic                Project Costs (US$M):
                          Electricity Sector
                          Development Policy
                          Loan
 L/C Number:              L7718                    Loan/Credit (US$M):                        800                   774
      Sector Board:       Energy and Mining        Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  06/11/2009
                                                              Closing Date:             12/31/2009           12/31/2009
        Sector(s):      Power (80%); Energy efficiency in power sector (10%); Central government administration
                        (10%)
        Theme(s):       Infrastructure services for private sector development (40% - P); Regulation and competition
                        policy (20%); Macroeconomic management (20% - P); Other public sector governance
                        (15%); Climate change (5%)
    Second Project ID :P117651                                                     Appraisal              Actual
       Project Name:    Second   Environmental      Project Costs (US$M):
                        Sustainability And
                        Energy Sector
                        Development Policy
                        Loan
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       700                 657
     Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                  06/15/2010
          Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:             12/31/2010           12/31/2010
        Sector(s):      Power   (40%), General  water  sanitation and flood protection sector (30%), Forestry (10%),
                        Solid waste management (10%), Renewable energy (10%)
        Theme(s):       Environmental policies and institutions (50%), Regulation and competition policy (20%),
                        Infrastructure services for private sector development (20%), Climate change (10%)
      Third Project ID :P121651                                                    Appraisal              Actual
       Project Name:    Environmental               Project Costs (US$M):
                        Sustainability And
                        Energy Sector (eses)
                        Dpl3
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       600                 574
     Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                  03/27/2012
          Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:             06/30/2015           05/30/2013
        Sector(s):      General water sanitation and flood protection sector (35%), General energy sector (25%),
                        Other Renewable Energy (20%), Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (20%)
         Theme(s):        Environmental policies and institutions (20%), Climate change (20%), Regulation and
                          competition policy (20%), Infrastructure services for private sector development (20%),
                          Macroeconomic management (20%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                   Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Stephen Hutton            Christopher David       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                          Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Loan Agreement did not contain a formal statement of objectives.

    The Program Document for the first operation listed the objectives as to: "support the implementation of the
    Government’s program that aims to address the projected electricity supply-demand imbalance: (a) through
    energy efficiency measures to reduce the rate of growth of demand for electricity, and (b) by enhancing the
    efficient supply of electricity". Supporting implementation is not an outcome, and the parts (a) and (b) are means,
    so the objective is assessed as to "address the projected electricity supply-demand imbalance".

    The Program Document for the second and third operations listed the objectives as:
    "a) enhance energy security; b) integrate principles of environmental sustainability, including climate change
    considerations, in key sectoral policies and programs; c) improve the effectiveness and efficiency of
    environmental management processes"

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The programmatic development policy operation supported policy and institutional reforms under three pillars:

    1) Energy Sector (DPL1, DPL2, DPL3): Under the original design, the program had four policy areas:
    •    Improving sustainable electricity supply security, including prior actions on adoption of an electricity strategy,
    amending the electricity market law, modifying balancing and settlement regulations, and providing budgetary
    allocations for transmission investment.
    •    Ensuring financial viability of the electricity sector, including prior actions on revising electricity retail prices,
    establishing a cost-based pricing mechanism for state owned enterprises, and payments for street lights
    •    Improving operational efficiency and the conditions for attracting enhanced private investments, with prior
    actions on privatization of electricity distribution companies
    •    Improving energy efficiency in the supply and consumption of electricity, with prior actions on energy
    efficiency regulations.
    Following restructuring of the program, the energy sector pillar was revised to cover three policy areas, covering
    the prior actions from above and spreading the indicative triggers from the first operation over the second and
    third operations:
    •    Improving electricity and gas supply security, covering implementation and launching of the electricity
    market, and amendments to the gas market law
    •    Promoting financial viability of the electricity sector and improving efficiency in the consumption of energy,
    including implementation of the cost-based pricing mechanism, and approval of an energy efficiency strategy
    •    Attracting private investment, including an electricity generation privatization strategy, and a renewable
    energy law amendment

    2) Climate Change (DPL2, DPL3): Under the second and third operation, this pillar had actions supporting
    approval of a national climate change strategy and a climate change action plan.

    3) Sustainable Environmental Management (DPL2, DPL3): The program had two pillars:
    •   Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of environmental management processes in support of the
    implementation of EU environmental acquis, including prior actions and triggers on an EU environmental
    approximation strategy, adopting a directive on strategic environmental assessment, adopting a directive in
    environmental impact assessment, and issuing a regulation on permits and licensing.
    •   Mainstreaming sustainable development principles and reducing environmental degradation, including
   actions on regulations for landfill waste, soil pollution and contaminated sites, large combustion plants, and
   industrial air pollution control; also including a clean air action plan, and water resource sensitivity designation.

   The indicative trigger on strategic environmental assessment and on the gas market law revision were dropped
   and did not become a prior action for the third operation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The loans were fully disbursed after approval. Actual disbursements were less than appraisal commitments
   because the loans were denominated in Euros, and because there were changes in the Euro/Dollar exchange
   rate over time. As the loans were budget support rather than project financing, no borrower contribution was
   expected and there was no specific project cost. Dates were as expected.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) with a field-based mission to Turkey was carried out for this
   programmatic series . For details on the Relevance of Objective & Design, Achievement of Objectives , Risk to
   Development Outcome , Bank Performance, Borrower Performance , and other issues, please refer to that
   report.

   The relevance of the objectives of the first operation is rated High.

   The relevance of the objectives for the second and third operations is rated Substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

   The relevance of the design to the objectives of the first operation is rated High.

   The relevance of the design to the objectives of the second and third operations is rated Modest.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Achievement of the objective "address the projected electricity supply-demand imbalance" is rated Substantial.

   Achievement of the objective "enhance energy security" is rated Substantial.

   Achievement of the objective "integrate principles of environmental sustainability, including climate change
   considerations, in key sectoral policies and programs" is rated Substantial.

   Achievement of the objective "improve the effectiveness and efficiency of environmental management
   processes" is rated Modest.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The outcome of the program is rated Satisfactory.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.
a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The quality at entry, across the three operations, is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The government performance is rated Satisfactory.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.



  Government Performance Rating :                               Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory.

   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                          Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    There were a number of weaknesses in the quality of M&E design.

    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. M&E Implementation:

    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

c. M&E Utilization:

    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    Though the investment lending safeguards do not apply to the operation, the environmental and social aspects of
    OP 8.60 are required.

    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    There were no issues of fiduciary compliance.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately           Quality at entry was rated Moderately
                                                            Satisfactory         Satisfactory due to weaknesses in
                                                                                 design of the environmental pillar.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory         Government performance was rated
                                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No

Why?     A PPAR evaluation was carried out by IEG.



15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provided an adequate coverage of the background and context of the operation and listed the main
    program outputs.

    However, it also have a number of weaknesses:
    The ICR discussed the relevance of objectives but did little to describe or address the design or its relevance
    other than listing the prior actions.

    The ICR provided relatively little evidence on the impact of the operation. More evidence could have been
    provided on the extent to which policy reforms were successful in achieving their objectives (the ICR rated pillars
    rather than objectives). The ICR could have done more to address the extent to which policy reforms which
    occurred were attributable to the Bank's DPL series. More nuance could have been provided on the key outcome
    indicator, as it could have been noted that though electricity supply-demand imbalances have generally been
    avoided, there have been wintertime power shortages in recent years.

    The ICR did not address design weaknesses in the M&E system, including the output-oriented nature of the
    system.

    No beneficiary assessment or stakeholder engagement was carried out.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
