                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                 January 9, 2014
                                                                               Report No.: 83948

 Operation Name                     Economic Stabilization and Foundations For Growth
                                    Development Policy Loan

 Region                             LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Country                            Jamaica
 Sector                             Central government administration (100%)
 Operation ID                       P145995
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        Government of Jamaica
 Implementing Agency                Ministry of Finance,
                                    Government of Jamaica
                                    Kingston, Jamaica
                                    Tel: -876-932-5416
 Date PID Prepared                  January 8 , 2014
 Date of Appraisal                  November 4, 2013
 Date of Board Approval             December 12, 2013
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the operation


       Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement

Jamaica’s progress on poverty and shared prosperity has been seriously undermined in the recent
past due in large part to economic shocks being amplified by the structural weaknesses of the
economy. Jamaica has experienced low growth, high public debt, and serious social challenges
for almost three decades. These factors have eroded Jamaica’s competitiveness, leading to
economic stagnation and volatility. For the past 30 years real per capita GDP increased at an
average of just 1 percent per annum, making Jamaica one of the slowest growing developing
countries. Nevertheless, Jamaica managed to reduce its poverty rate from 19.9 to 9.9 percent of
the population between 1997 and 2007. The global financial crisis resulted in a significant
reversal of this progress, as poverty increased sharply to 17.8 percent in 2010, and
unemployment reached 16 percent in 2013 (compared with 9.7 percent in 2007), with youth
unemployment at 30 percent.

The crisis particularly impacted the poor and middle class. While a large part of the population
suffered from negative real consumption growth, economic difficulties disproportionately
affected the bottom 40 percent of the population. This has led to higher inequality, reversing a
previously positive trend. The share of consumption of the bottom 40 percent of Jamaica’s
population, which had improved from 16.7 percent to 17.8 percent between 2001 and 2007, fell
slightly to 17.3 percent in 2010. Rural areas were the hardest hit by the crisis, with the poverty
level increasing from 17 percent in 2008 to 23.2 percent in 2010.

                                                                                                1
The Government of Jamaica (GoJ) has articulated a comprehensive program of fiscal
consolidation, monetary and exchange rate reforms, and a strategy to promote private sector led
growth. The GoJ signed an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR 615.4 million (about
US$932.3 million) for the period of April 2013 to March 2017, to support its reform program.
The Government’s economic reforms will also benefit from substantial support from the World
Bank and the IDB, with each having agreed to allocate US$510 million over the next four years.
Together, the three multilaterals are supporting a wide range of structural reforms designed to
stabilize the economy, reduce debt, restore confidence, and build the foundations of growth and
resilience. The Fund-supported program has focused on debt restructuring, fiscal consolidation
and financial sector reforms. The IDB focuses on tax reform, including the legislation to
eliminate a complex set of tax waivers. The Bank is playing an important role supporting
structural and institutional reforms to lay the foundations for future growth, enhance
competitiveness, social protection, public sector management and resilience that are critical to
the goals of debt reduction and sustainable growth. The Bank and IDB are closely coordinating
their assistance in the different sectoral areas to ensure complementarity and consistency.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The objective of the proposed DPL is to support the Government of Jamaica’s efforts to
implementing a set of policy and institutional reforms to increase competitiveness and improve
fiscal management. Reforms aimed at improving competitiveness include investment climate
related actions that will remove identified constraints to doing business, such as contract
enforcement, delays in obtaining construction permits, access to finance, and lack of support to
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Even with significant progress on improving
competitiveness, investor confidence will not return unless sustained progress is demonstrated on
the fiscal front. This requires success at addressing the key underlying causes of the rigid
expenditure patterns that make fiscal adjustment difficult, namely the large wage bill (currently
10.5 percent of GDP), the defined benefit pension program for civil servants that is entirely
funded by budgetary outlays, and the public sector investment program, which is unable to
deliver growth dividends in its present, un-prioritized form. It also requires decisive action on
eliminating discretionary tax waivers and addressing the fiscal health of public enterprises
which, in the past have been a large drain on the budget.

Pillar 1 Improving the Investment Climate and Competitiveness focuses on helping to
establish the necessary conditions that would facilitate higher and productive private sector
investment which is necessary for growth in Jamaica. To help create the condition for more
productive private investment, the proposed DPL supports Government initiatives already
underway which are expected to have a transformational impact on resolving key investment
climate bottlenecks and supporting small business growth.

On improving the investment climate, the DPL focuses on reforms in select critical areas. One
of these areas is the weak enforcement of contracts. Civil courts—the main vehicles for dealing
with commercial disputes in Jamaica—are severely backlogged with some cases taking years
before being heard. The DPL supports reforms to increase the civil jurisdiction of the lower
courts to improve the efficiency of disposing of commercial disputes. Another issue is the
building permits process. Applications, fees, and requirements for building permits vary by

                                                                                               2
parish, and once submitted it is difficult to track the status of the application. This creates
problems for investors who have to navigate different processes, but more importantly need a
more reliable time frame to line up financing and construction planning. A final investment
climate area supported by the DPL is improving access to credit. Small creditors have limited
access to finance as banks and financial service institutions are reluctant to extend credit without
standardized credit reporting and assessment. The DPL supports the establishment of the credit
bureaus in Jamaica– two have been licensed and are operational now. The credit bureaus will
collect credit information and perform credit analysis required by the banks and other financial
service institutions that extend credit to the private sector, particularly for MSMEs which have
limited access due to lack of information about them.

As MSMEs are responsible for the majority of the employment in Jamaica and are important
potential drivers of future economic growth, the DPL is supporting the GoJ adoption of a MSME
& Entrepreneurship Policy. This policy represents a significant step to provide a coordinated
and targeted framework to support MSMEs in an effort to expand their contribution. The policy
framework, which was established through extensive collaboration, includes measures to reduce
bureaucracy and increase efficiency including simplification of tax procedures, incentives to
install energy efficient technology in MSMEs, and measures to position MSMEs to take
advantage of the proposed logistics hub for better integration into global supply chains.

Pillar II Improving Public Financial Management for Sustained Fiscal Consolidation
focuses on strengthening fiscal consolidation efforts by supporting efforts to enhance
expenditure management, efficiency and rationalization and bolster revenue mobilization
prospects. Given tight fiscal space, there is a need for increased efficiency in the use of public
monies, and also better risk management of financial liabilities. Efforts are underway to contain
the long term costs of large expenditure items, such as pensions and wages to preserve the gains
from recent fiscal consolidation efforts. Tax policy is to be radically overhauled. Better public
sector oversight will support fiscal risk management, and budgetary reforms will strengthen
budget management. The public sector investment program is being streamlined to achieve fiscal
efficiency. The proposed DPL supports numerous Government initiatives to transform and
rationalize Jamaica’s public sector, improve the management of the wage bill for better service
delivery while meeting GoJ’s fiscal consolidation targets, and improve the budget process.

       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The Ministry of Finance and PIOJ will be responsible for the coordination, monitoring and
progress of the DPL prior actions. The government has also appointed a point person in the PIOJ
for coordinating the implementation of the reforms. Monitoring and evaluation will be supported
by the various ministries, who will provide the baseline and updated data, and work with the
Bank specialists to inform them of progress and potential bottlenecks in implementation. The
Bank has an extensive and active program in Jamaica in several of the policy reform areas
identified, and additional monitoring of the DPL will be conducted in conjunction with this
program.




                                                                                                  3
       Risks and Risk Mitigation

The overall risk of the operation is high. Jamaica is entering a demanding transition period,
where difficult reforms will only yield results in terms of growth acceleration and shared
prosperity over the medium term. There is a risk that political commitment may weaken and
social tensions increase, or that natural disasters derail fiscal consolidation efforts and set back
the reform program. The program supported by the DPL faces three types of risks: economic,
governance and political, and capacity risks.

Macroeconomic risk. The Jamaican economy remains highly vulnerable to external shocks and
natural disasters. The combination of a large current account deficit, low foreign exchange
reserves, high unemployment and limited fiscal space significantly reduces the Government’s
flexibility to absorb unforeseen shocks. Growth targets are ambitious, and require both good
policy and a favorable external environment. Mitigation: The Bank is monitoring this risk
closely with the IMF and IDB, and will pace assistance under a possible future programmatic
series which will contribute further to strengthen the country’s overall macroeconomic
framework.

Governance and political risks. Jamaica faces a heavy reform agenda which could lose steam if
negative impacts of reform begin to reduce political and popular support, and if vested interests
come in the way. The DPL complements difficult reforms underway under the IMF EFF, which
have virtually exhausted the government’s political capital, hurt vested interests, reduced
spending and solicited heavy debate in Jamaica on the benefits of reforms. Mitigation: The
authorities are fully aware of this risk and are promoting continuous consultation and awareness-
raising around benefits of sector reforms. The Bank, through the DFID trust fund, is providing
technical assistance on the development and implementation of a communication strategy for
more effective outreach from the MoF to other parts of the government on the reform agenda. In
addition, the Government has signed a Social Partnership Agreement (SPA) with the Private
Sector, Trade Unions and Civil Society which is intended to form a broad coalition around the
reform agenda could ensure the sustainability of reforms and mitigate against a relapse of
political commitment.

Capacity risks. The broad reform agenda raises the risk that government capacity and fiscal
resources are stretched thin, implementation is delayed and enforcement of new legislation is
weak. Legislative capacity has been stretched given the large amount of new legislation that
needs to be drafted and approved over the next few years. In addition, an ongoing public sector
wage freeze has greatly hampered the government’s ability to attract and maintain talent and
made it difficult to create new positions to implement the reforms. Mitigation: The Bank has
secured financing for training opportunities for existing staff in the MoF as well as for technical
assistance, including in the form of special advisors focused on design and implementation of
key reforms so that they might be able to take on some of these tasks without additional hiring
requirements.




                                                                                                  4
       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

Poverty and social impacts of policy measures supported under this DPL are expected to be
either positive or negligible, with some reforms expected to have a more direct positive impact
on the poor and vulnerable groups than others. Policy reforms in Pillar 2, in particular, will have
important redistribution effects by means of improved fiscal efficiency and improved quality of
public expenditures and controls. A reform of the public sector pension system can lead to better
management of government liabilities, which in turn will improve fiscal sustainability and
increase fiscal space for needed pro-poor expenditures. The unsustainability of the current
defined benefit pension scheme needs to be addressed or it will have more severe implications
for overall fiscal expenditures. Pension reforms will have an impact on the income stream
expected as accrual rates will be lower, though this is in part mitigated by grandfathering those
with less than 5 years to retirement, reducing the accrual rates of those already in the system, and
only applying the new lower accrual rates to new hires.


Environmental Aspects

It is expected that the policies and reforms supported by this operation will not have any negative
environmental impacts. An on-site review was taken to cover all prior actions. Of the prior
action, there was a particular focus on construction permits. The streamlining of construction
permits has a potentially positive impact on the environment in that it would enhance conditions
for sustainably managed private sector growth, as transparency in the transaction process would
provide opportunities for informed urban planning decisions. However the approval process for
construction permits requires the co-ordination and integration of various Government Agencies,
under the existing legislative framework. As such, the intention to accelerate the issuance of
construction permits should take into consideration the requirement to incorporate results of
consultations with these Agencies and other stakeholders, including civil society, in cases of
projects where the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) has determined that a full
Environmental Assessment is required.

       Financing

Source                                                                                ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                 0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                  130
                                                                       Total           130




                                                                                                  5
      Contact point

World Bank
Contact:     Sona Varma
Title:       Senior Country Economist
Tel:         (202) 458-0441
Email:       svarma1@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact:     Ms. Darlene Morrison
Title:       Deputy Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Tel:         876-932-5416
Email:       darlene.morrison@mof.gov.jm

      For more information contact:

The Info Shop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                               6
