 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14850

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                               Date Posted: 09/30/2015

                 Country: Jamaica
                           Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes      No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P145995                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Jamaica Economic               Project Costs (US$M):                     130.0                130.0
                           Stabilization and
                           Foundations for
                           Growth DPL
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      130.0                130.0
       Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                            12/12/2013
                                                                   Closing Date:          06/30/2014        06/30/2014
          Sector(s):         Central government administration (44%); General industry and trade sector (28%); SME
                             Finance (11%); Other social services (11%); Law and justice (6%)
         Theme(s):           Regulation and competition policy (39%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                             procurement (33%); Administrative and civil service reform (11%); Debt management and
                             fiscal sustainability (11%); Other economic management (6%)
Evaluator:                    Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                       Coordinator:
Lev Freinkman                 Mauricio Carrizosa       Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The objective of this Development Policy Loan (PDO), as defined in its Program Document (PD, p. 12), was “to
    support the Government of Jamaica's implementation of a set of policy and institutional reforms to increase
    competitiveness and improve fiscal management”.

    In light of the broad objective of this operation, IEG is assessing efficacy on the basis of its contribution towards
    two specific policy objectives: (i) improving the investment climate and competitiveness, and (ii) improving public
    financial management for sustainable fiscal consolidation. This decomposition of PDO is consistent with the
    Policy Matrix in Program Document (pp.27-29).

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The program supported two policy areas:

    (1) Improving the investment climate and competitiveness
    Measures under this policy area focused on strengthening enforcement of contracts, simplification of building
    permits, improvement of access to credit, and establishment of a new MSME policy framework.

     (2) Improving Public Financial Management for Sustained Fiscal Consolidation
   Measures in this policy area were to contribute to sustainability of the government’s fiscal consolidation efforts by
   enhancing public financial management and expenditure controls in key areas. Specifically, this policy area
   supported steps to launch the reform in the public pension system, the elimination of existing sector-based tax
   incentive programs, rationalization of public sector employment and reducing a wage bill, upgrades in budget
   management systems and regulations, and rationalization of the public sector investment program.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The operation was appraised in November 2013, approved by the Board on December 12, 2013 and became
   effective on December 17, 2013. The original loan amount of US$130 million was disbursed in full upon
   effectiveness. The original loan closing date, June 30, 2014, remained unchanged.

   The DPL was part of the effort to support the Government’s stabilization program undertaken by the Bank in
   close cooperation with other development partners (IDB and IMF), but there were no formal co-financing
   arrangements. The IMF’s Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Arrangement amounted to equivalent of about US$932
   million over the period of 2013-2017. The IDB made a commitment of US$510 million to be disbursed to Jamaica
   through various instruments over the same four year period (ICR, pp.9-10).



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of Objectives : Substantial

   The objectives of Economic Stabilization and Foundations for Growth (ESFG) DPL were fully consistent with the
   key priorities and expected outcomes of the current World Bank Group Country Partnership Strategy (CPS,
   Fiscal Years 2014-2017) for Jamaica, which was under preparation simultaneously with the DPL and was
   approved by the Board in April 2014. It was aligned with the two out of three strategic thematic areas of the CPS
   -- public sector modernization and enabling environment for private sector growth. The DPL was explicitly
   mentioned in the CPS document (p. 22).

   The ESFG operation was relevant to the country’s conditions as it intended to address the two core interrelated
   development problems of Jamaica - low growth and high debt.

   The reforms supported under the ESFG DPL were also aligned with the objectives of the Government’s own
   longer term development strategy, National Development Plan (NDP) "Vision 2030", launched formally in 2007,
   and the associated Medium-Term Socio-Economic Policy Framework (MTF) for FY2012-15. The MTF 2012–2015
   is committed to improvements in four areas related to the core national goals of Vision 2030, including the one on
   Economic stability, competitiveness and employment.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design: Substantial

   The operation was designed as part of multi-donor package to support Jamaica’s macroeconomic stabilization.
   The results chain was generally convincing. It linked fiscal and policy support from the Bank to a) removal of key
   investment climate bottlenecks that would encourage expansion in private sector investments to bring in
   improvements in competitiveness and growth acceleration, and b) reducing barriers for longer-term fiscal
   adjustment by addressing causes for expenditure rigidity and revenue under-performance. The latter was
   supposed to strengthen the public sector’s fiscal balance, improve the country’s debt profile and greatly reduce
   the country’s vulnerability to future shocks.

   However, the design of the ESFG operation shows moderate shortcomings. Specifically, several ESFG DPL prior
   actions and associated result indicators in the area of fiscal policy were process-oriented and could not directly
   result in improvements in fiscal management and budget consolidation, which was one of the DPL’s objective.
   For instance, the establishment of new databases on government personnel and budget investment projects
   were technical solutions which, on their own, without further policy decisions, could not advance rationalization of
   public sector employment and the investment portfolio.
   There was also a considerable overlap between the ESFG DPL policy agenda and the parallel programs
   supported by the IMF and IDB. Several of the prior actions and targets (for instance, in the tax reform area) were
   also included in the IMF program. (PD, p.2; ICR, p.21). The additionality of the Bank’s policy support in these
   cases has not been clear.

   Macroeconomic framework. By the time the ESGF DPL was approved, the country’s macroeconomic framework
   was considered to be on the sustainable adjustment path, despite elevated risks related to the high level of public
   debt and low international reserves. To anchor its reform program, in April 2013 the Government signed an
   Extended Fund Facility (EFF) agreement with the IMF for the period of four years. Several bold policy steps were
   taken in the run up to the EEF program to facilitate fiscal adjustment, including wage freeze in the public sector,
   domestic debt exchange, and tax reform package. Following the agreement with the IMF, the fiscal stance
   improved, while losses in foreign reserves were contained. Jamaica successfully completed the first review of
   EEF program in September 2013, which was one of the triggers to finalize the preparation of ESGF loan (ICR,
   pp.8-9).

   According to the IMF, over the last two years, implementation of the government’s reform agenda remained
   strong. In June 2015 the IMF Executive Board concluded the eighth review under the EFF, which represents an
   important achievement for the Jamaican Government. The sizeable fiscal adjustment was taking hold driven so
   far largely by expenditure compression. The current account deficit has improved, primarily due to import decline.
   At the same time, the IMF review stated that, although risks to the program are slowly receding, they remain high.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: Improving the investment climate and competitiveness
    Modest

   The reforms to improve competitiveness included a range of policies to remove constraints to private sector
   activities. In March 2015, the Government presented to Parliament its first Growth Agenda Policy Paper that
   specifies accountability of various agencies for implementation of future improvements in the business
   environment. Specific reforms included streamlining the business registration process, upgrading processes and
   systems for managing construction permits, and the adoption of a new Insolvency Act. The authorities have also
   established a central collateral registry to facilitate access to credit. The Jamaica Customs Administration
   acquired the ASYCUDA Customs Management System aimed at streamlining export and import procedures.
   However, many of these reforms still remain under implementation. For instance, the Government plans to have
   the on-line system for business registration fully operational only by April 2016 (IMF EFF review, 2015, p.48).

   There has been only limited evidence to suggest that the competitiveness of Jamaican economy has improved
   since the ESGF DPL approval. GDP growth rates remained below 1% in the last two years. There was a
   significant contraction in total exports relative to the baseline of FY2012/13. And there was only a modest growth
   in private investments, from 14% of GDP in 2012/13 to 15% of GDP in 2014/15. Still, there have been some
   positive signs – exports of services bounced back recently, supported by significant exchange rate depreciation;
   and FDI volumes increased to the record level of US$600 million in 2013/2014.
   The Doing Business 2015 Report suggests that just in one year Jamaica made remarkable progress in easing
                                                                                                                th
   administrative barriers for business. Its ranking improved to the 58th (out of 189 countries), up from 85 the year
   earlier. This jump was due almost entirely to a major improvement in the “Getting Credit” indicator, where
                                      th      th
   Jamaica’s ranking rose from 125 to 12 (ICR, p. 22). While some progress in the area of access to credit has
   indeed taken place, this review did not find evidence to justify such a fundamental change in the country’s relative
   position. For instance, while the credit bureaus, established under the new policies supported by the DPL, may
   facilitate access to credit for some first-time borrowers, these bureaus still are at the early stage of their
   development. According to the Doing Business database, the overall credit bureau coverage of adult population
   in Jamaica remains low at 10.1% vs. average of 39.3% for the region of Latin America and Caribbean. Moreover,
   according to the IMF, bank credit to the private sector in Jamaica has stagnated with growth of only 0.4% in real
   terms in 2014. At around 30% of GDP, bank credit to the private sector is well below the level that would
   correspond to Jamaica’s fundamentals.
   There were three specific indicators to measure progress under this DPL objective, and there was no evidence
   that any of these targets were met:

   Contract enforcement: The target was to reach 2,250 cases above JM$ 250,000 threshold processed by the
   lower courts in 2014. Actual outcome remains unknown as the respective data were not collected. As reported by
the DPL supervision mission in February 2014, anecdotal information suggests that the lower courts were
beginning to handle cases above JM$ 250,000.

Construction permit approval: Some additional administrative steps were undertaken to expedite the approval
process. In December 2014 the Government approved a 2-track system, whereby simple (residential)
applications follow a streamlined process, releasing resources to expedite processing of more complex
commercial permits (ICR, p.15). The Government made progress with the implementation of the AMANDA online
management system to track permit applications and expected to have it fully operational in summer 2015.
According to the team, the Government completely cleared a backlog of construction permit applications in
Kingston parish (the location with the largest number of commercial applications). However, the specific target in
this area was unmet. The goal for 2014 was to have 95% of all construction permits to be approved within 90
days, but the actual share of such permits was only 79%, well below the 2013 baseline of 89%.

Number of MSMEs operating in the formal sector: The target was to increase the number of MSMEs filing
general consumption tax (GST) returns. In the event, in FY2013/14 the number of MSME tax filers declined by
about 6% relative to the average for two previous years. This is explained in the ICR by the increase in the
minimum business tax (which was part of the agreed tax reform package under the EFF program), which created
incentives to de-register (ICR, pp.16-17).

Objective 2: Improving public financial management for sustainable fiscal consolidation
Substantial

As mentioned in section 3b, there was an improvement in the fiscal position of the government, reflecting a
significant strengthening in fiscal management (FM). Fiscal consolidation has been advancing steadily, backed
by the EEF agreement with the IMF. The authorities managed to reduce budget expenditure supported by the
multi-year wage freeze and the agreement with the unions. The public sector’s fiscal position was in balance in
FY2013/14 for the first time in many years. For the first time, the country’s budget for FY2015/16 was presented
and approved by Parliament before the start of the fiscal year (ICR, p.15). Jamaica’s public debt has declined,
albeit remaining at higher levels than in comparable emerging market economies. There has also been an
improvement in revenue performance. Key FM reforms included: (i) a new fiscal rule adopted in March 2014,
putting limits on the annual overall public sector balance; (ii) establishment of a new permanent budget calendar;
(iii) wide-ranging tax reforms, including elimination of discretionary tax waivers and increases in petroleum excise
taxes; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of the Large Taxpayers Office and legislation to increase the powers of
the tax administration (Based on PD for the follow-up DPL, p.12). However, given that fiscal policy adjustment
was also a core objective of parallel programs of other development partners, IMF and IDB, it is difficult to
attribute all these changes entirely to the Bank’s operation.

There has also been considerable progress towards five specific FM targets outlined in the DPL results
framework, all of which were eventually met, despite some delays against the original timetable in two cases
(ICR, pp.17-18). However, as mentioned in section 3b, achievement of some of these targets (such as databases
on public employment and investment) did not contribute much yet to expenditure rationalization and broader
fiscal consolidation.

Pension reform: There has been significant progress in drafting the new public sector pension system Law, but at
a slower pace than was originally envisioned, largely because of low legal drafting capacity in the country. The
Government issued drafting instructions for the new Law (DPL target) in early 2015, and the Government is
committed to approve the new pension law by the end-2015 and make the new system effective by early
FY2016/17, about one year later than planned. The adoption of the pension Law is one of the prior actions for the
2nd programmatic DPL planned to go to the Board in early 2016.

Tax reform: The tax reform package was approved by Parliament in December 2013 and became effective on
January 1, 2014. It repealed 11 out of 15 sectoral tax incentive programs and replaced them with the general and
transparent tax incentive framework for investors. Thus the project target (to reduce the number of specific tax
incentive programs to four) was fully met. Firms that benefited from the old tax regime are grandfathered, but
they can opt for switching to the new set of tax rules. There is some evidence that most firms indeed have been
shifting to the new regime.

Civil Service reform: The Government is committed to reduce the size of public sector employment through the
elimination of posts and attrition aimed at meeting its medium-term target for the overall public sector’s wage bill
of 9% of GDP. The specific target under the DPL was to complete the Central database of public sector
personnel by October 2014. This was accomplished, but with some delay. The civil service census was
completed in January 2015, and the data on all personnel of central ministries, departments, and agencies
(MDAs) were entered into the database by June 2015. However, the validation of the database was not
   completed by the time of ICR preparation. The Government plans to update the database every six months. The
   use of database will strengthen internal controls, increase responsibility and accountability of MDAs for
   management of their personnel, and provide broad support to further rationalization and downsizing of civil
   service.

   Cash management: The Government made steps to strengthen the Central Treasury Management System and
   the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and broadened their coverage. This helped to improve cash management as
   well as financial information availability. It also reduced the need for additional government borrowing as idle
   accounts balances are minimized. The Government has been also improving cash planning, including the
   establishment of a Cash Management Unit. The specific DPL target was to increase the share of MDAs’
   payments done through electronic fund transfer by the Accountant General's Department from 90% in 2013 to
   98% in 2014. This was achieved: for 30 MDAs covered by the Treasury System 98% of their payments were
   done through the TSA as electronic transfers by the Accountant General's Department. However, government
   executive and autonomous agencies are not covered by the Treasury system yet. Thus, the Government plans to
   further expand its coverage. In particular, by September 2015 in plans to pay all salaries of civil servants at the
   central government through the TSA.

   Public Investment management: In late 2014 the Government has amended the Financial Administration and
   Audit Act to establish a Public Investment Management System that provides a common framework for the
   preparation, appraisal, approval and management of public investments, irrespective of source of their funding
   and implementation modalities. The specific DPL target was to ensure that the new online database of public
   investment projects covers at least 90% of such projects in 2014. The actual outcome was 91%. The use of
   database is expected to strengthen planning and monitoring of the public investment program. The Government
   plans a further expansion in database coverage, backed by the recent legal amendments (which provided a legal
   basis for inclusion of investment projects by state-owned enterprises).



5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The outcome rating of the program is Moderately Satisfactory reflecting substantial relevance of objectives and
   design, modest achievement of one of the two operation’s objectives, and a substantial rating for the second.

   The program helped the borrower to make some progress in the areas of investment climate, but none of specific
   targets under this objective were met. Progress in the area of fiscal management has brought more tangible
   benefits, but these were driven primarily by the parallel IMF program, and could not been fully attributed to the
   Bank’s support under the ESFG DPL. Moreover, various fiscal management targets, while being fully achieved,
   were intermediary steps in the process of expenditure rationalization.

   Given the long-term nature of various policy reforms, supported by this DPL, its actual impact could be more
   accurately assess only in few years, after completion of the ongoing programmatic DPL series that has provided
   additional support in the same reform areas.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The risk to the development outcome of the project is rated High. Despite significant progress made over the last
   two years towards macroeconomic stabilization, supported by the package of massive international assistance,
   Jamaica’s macroeconomic and fiscal management risks remain elevated, as emphasized by the latest EFF
   review by the IMF. Public debt, even after some decline, is still near 140% of GDP, which makes the country
   quite vulnerable to external shocks. In addition, economic growth remains weak, which creates a risk of
   weakening political support for further reforms, including critically needed policy adjustments in the area of
   investment climate and competitiveness. Jamaica’s exposure to the risk of natural disasters is high (ICR, pp.
   23-24). In terms of mitigation, as discussed in section 4, in several policy areas supported under ESGF DPL
   there has been a significant reform momentum, as additional policy reforms are backed-up by the follow-up
   programmatic DPLs.
  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Preparation of the ESFG DPL reflected the recommendations of the Bank’s prior analytical work, including a
   Country Economic Memorandum (CEM, 2011), "Strengthening Fiscal Discipline in Jamaica” Report (2012),
   analytical note on public sector investment program (PSIP, 2013), and IFC advisory on MSME support. The
   Bank also undertook the analysis of public sector pension system’s sustainability (PD, pp.19-20). The loan
   was prepared and supervised in close coordination with other development partners (IMF and IDB). The DPL
   complemented activities undertaken by a number of Bank investment projects, including Growth and
   Competitiveness, Public Sector Financial Management, etc. (ICR, p. 19).

   The ESFG DPL was prepared on an accelerated basis to provide urgent budget support to the Government
   that was facing a major macroeconomic crisis in 2013. The risk assessment developed during the project
   preparation (PD, pp. 25-26) was adequate.

   A significant weakness of Quality-at-entry relates to the deficiencies in the project’s results framework,
   especially with respect to the set of monitoring indicators under the Objective 1, as explained in section 10.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   There was one supervision mission and one Implementation and Status Report (ISR) was prepared during
   the project life time. Additional support for supervision and implementation of the reforms included in the
   ESFG DPL program, particularly those aimed at improving management of the public sector, was provided
   under the Bank ongoing investment projects and DFID trust fund. Project supervision was undertaken
   simultaneously with the preparation of the follow-up DPL, the first one in the new programmatic series, and
   contributed to the design of the new loan. Supervision also benefitted from close collaboration with the IMF
   (ICR, pp. 19, 25). The ICR, however, pointed out (p. 26) that the ISR, prepared by the team in April 2014,
   over-estimated reform progress for two (out of eight) monitoring indicators.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government showed strong commitment to the objectives of macroeconomic stabilization and related
   reforms in fiscal management. Keeping on track the IMF EFF program for more than two years has been a
   significant achievement and makes a real contrast relative to the Jamaica’s poor reform track record of the
   past. Moreover, to broaden political support for the reforms the Government signed the country’s first social
   partnership agreement (SPA) with the organizations of private sector, trade unions and civil society. Still,
   there were important delays in the implementation of the agreed reforms, in part driven by the existing
   Government’s capacity constraints. The pace of progress in the area of investment climate was modest (ICR,
   p. 26).



  Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

     The Ministry of Finance and Planning had responsibility for the coordination, monitoring and ensuring
    completion of the prior actions under the DPL. The ICR did not present any evidence of weak government
    coordination. The ICR reports, however, that the data from the government sources were not always available
    to support timely supervision. The Ministry failed to ensure collection of the monitoring data for one (out of
    eight) result indicator (ICR, pp. 19, 26).



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

     The M&E design shows significant weaknesses. First, the results framework did not contain any PDO-level
    (core) results indicators to correspond directly to the DPL’s objective (“increase competitiveness and improve
    fiscal management”). Instead it was based on eight specific indicators reflecting various particular aspects of
    program results (presented in Annex 1 of PD for ESFG DPL). Second, one policy area under the program (on
    improving access to credit by encouraging the credit bureau industry) did not have any indicator to monitor future
    progress. Third, some of the selected indicators have shown serious limitations in proper monitoring reform
    progress. For instance, indicator 2 (percent of construction permits approved within 90 days) reflects time needed
    for approval of both types (commercial and residential) of construction permits, while the real purpose of the
    reform supported by the DPL was to accelerate approval of commercial permits. Those make only 10% of total
    construction permits but are a critical element of the entire private investment cycle (ICR, p.25).

b. M&E Implementation:

    The M&E implementation was based largely on the data provided by Government agencies and coordinated by
    the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Monitoring information was not always available in a timely fashion. This
    was partially compensated through close cooperation of the Bank team with the development partners that had
    their own M&E arrangements to track reform progress (ICR, p.19). The ISR prepared by the team as part of
    supervision reported on most M&E indicators.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR does not provide information on utilization of M&E data in either policy making or communication with
    reform stakeholders.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    No safeguard policies were triggered by this DPL.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR does not discuss fiduciary issues related to the program implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately        .
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following lessons are taken from the ICR (p. 28) with some adaptation of language:
      Close coordination with other multilaterals in the course of project preparation and supervision enhances
        the impact of Bank operations. It also reduces transaction costs associated with donor assistance to the
        client governments, which is especially important at the time of major economic crisis.
      In cases where the Bank’s supported reform programs have considerable overlap with the programs
        supported by other multilaterals, specific contribution (additionality) of the Bank operation becomes
        difficult to establish.
      Utilization of various Bank instruments (DPL, investment lending, and non-lending technical assistance)
        delivered as a well-coordinated package represents an effective strategy for advancing ambitious
        structural reforms, especially in the areas that require sufficient capabilities within the core government
        agencies, such as e.g. public sector reform.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?
   Assessment is recommended for this DPL to be undertaken jointly with the follow-on DPL programmatic series.
   The proposed assessment would provide additional insights about the Bank's contribution to the process of
   economic transformation in Jamaica, specifically about the additionality of the Bank's program (vs those by the
   IMF and IDB) and derive lessons that would be useful for other operations.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR presents a detailed and frank analysis of DPL results and implementation experiences, and it suggests
    several useful insights regarding the lessons learned from this operation. However, the ICR has three moderate
    shortcomings. First, the ICR missed to present the important episode of the loan preparation history – the fact that
    the original design proposal was to have the ESFG DPL part of the programmatic series, but this eventually was
    modified to make it a stand-alone operation. Second, the ICR presents insufficient information on actual policy
    reforms carried out after the Board approval of the ESFG DPL. It does not discuss the extent of the Government’s
    follow-up on policy actions that had constituted prior actions for the ESFG. For the purposes of this review, to
    cover this gap, additional documents had to be consulted, including the PD for the follow-up operation, First
    Competitiveness and Fiscal Management Programmatic DPL, and IMF review of the EFF program. Third, the
    ICR provided scant information on government performance, in particular with respect to donor coordination. On
    balance, the ICR quality is rated satisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
