Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5013
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 937/CREDIT 432-TUN)
March 27, 1984
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribtion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank  orization.



FOR OFFICALL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Page
PREFACE                                                                     i
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                           ii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                                iii
1.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Tunis Metropolitan Area.. . .. .           ..       ..          1
Role of the Project. .... .. ... ...... ..                      2
Brief Details of the Project  . . . . . ...                     3
Sources of Information for this Report  . . . . . . . .         3
2.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL . . . .           4
Origin and Formulation of the Project ..                        4
Project Preparation     .... ........                           5
Project Appraisal.                                              7
3.  IIMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
Revisions.                                                     11
Implementation Schedule   ..13
Procurement .14
Project Costs and Disbursements.                               15
4.  EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE -  SNT PROJECT COMPONES . . .             17
Assessment of SNT Past Operations and Level of Service . . . 17
Urban Bus Operations .              .                           18
TGM Operations  . .  . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .           22
Fares ...24
Financial Evaluation       ..                                  24
Economic Evaluation -  Bus Component.       .                  30
Economic Evaluation -  TGM Component.       .                  33
Organizational Improvements        ..34
The Future of SNT             ...35
Light Rail Project ..                                          36
Dismantling of SNT  ... ........... .   ;                      37
This docurnent has a restricte-d distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of1
Itheir official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



Page No.
5.  EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT COMPONENT. . 37
Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Traffic Management Unit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
6.  EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE -- TUNIS DISTRICT COMPONENT. . . . 40
7.  EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - SFAX COMPONENT  . . . . . . . . 41
8.  EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE   CONSULTANTS AND SUPPLIERS . . . 42
9.  EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
10.  CONCLUSIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
Annex  I: Forecasted and Actual Costs
Annex II: Traffic Improvement Component
Annex III: Schedule of Disbursements
Annex IV: Compliance with Agreements



TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 937/CREDIT 432-TUN)
PREFACE
Loan 937/Credit 432-TUN for the Tunis District Urban Planning and
Public Transport Project was signed on October 5, 1973. The loan/credit, for
US$ll.O and 7.0 million respectively, was closed on December 31, 1981; t17.86
million was disbursed and the balance ($0.14 million) was cancelled. During
implementation, project content was marginally revised, and the closing date
was postponed by three years.
This report consists of a Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by
the EMENA Urban Division.   The  PCR  is based  on  a  review  of  files  and
documents, interviews with Bank and Borrower staff, and a visit to Tunisia in
May 1981.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Completion Report was read by the Operations Evaluation
Department but was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion Report was
sent to the Borrower; however, no comments were received.



- ii -
PROJfrCT COMv1LI:TION K_W,POT hASIC DATA Stf.r.T
TUNISIA   r:    U                           tr...;:T .P.OJECT
kLoa-1 %p3-TUG7'7ULL.L 4J.-1Uh7
5LI- rRuJt.L1 U11A--
Item                                              Appraisal Forecast        Actual
Total Project Cosc (Ust million)                         28.62              53.43
0verrunt (7)                                                            487.00
Loan Amount (USS ipillion)                                                 11 00
Credit Amount (USS million)                                                 7.00
Total Loan and Credit (US5 million)                                         18 00
Disbursed (as of December 31, 1981)                                      17:86.!/
Cancelled                                                                 0.14
eursiLand°ns (as of April 30  1983)                                       12/81Ž1
Date Physical Components Copleted1
Proportion Com-leted by Above Date (Z)                                        99
Proportion of 5imc Overrun (M)                                             *167
Economnic Race of Return for TGM only (C)                16-17                10
Financial Performance                                                     as expected
lnstitutional Performance                                                 as expected
al For detail, see Annex Ill.
li Except for minor equipment and furnishings of bus depot.
UUlLW. rziUJL1 UfII&A
Item                     Original Plan   Revisions                     Actual
First Mention in Files                                                02/28/72
Government's Application                                              05S  /72
Negotiations                                                    4)5 23-0610/573
Board Approval                                                        08/07/73
Loan/Credit Agreement                                                 10/05/73
Effectiveness Date           01/31/74          05/15/74               09/24/74
07/15/74
0 9(15/74
Closing Date                 12/31/76          12(31/77               12/31/81
12/31178
12/31/79
12/31/80
Borrower                     Republic of Tunisia
Executin_ AgencieE           District of Tunis, Municipalities of Tunis and Sfax, and
SocittE Nationale df-s Transport& (SNT)
Fiscal Year of Borrower      January 1-December 31
Follow-on Project Name       Second Urban Development Project
Loan Number                17D5-IUI
Amount kLSS m2llion)       19.00
Loan Agreemenr Date        05/31/79
KISSION DATA
month/    No.        No.       tan-      Date of
Mission           Sent by      Year       Weeks     Persons   weeks    Report
Identification                 07/72        2         2           4     08/16/72
Preraration                    10/72        4         2           8     11/24/72
Pre-Appraisal                  12/72        2         4           8     01110/73
Ap raxsal                   01-02/73        6          7         42     07/25/73
Motal                                     14                   6
Supervision   1  URB2          11/73         4        2           8     none
Supervision II    URB2         01/74         2        2           4     none
Supervision IlI   URB2         04/74         1        2           2     03/05/74
Supervision IV    UKB2         05/74         1        1           1     none
Supervision V     UMB2         08/74         1        2           2     none
Supervision VI    URB2         11/74         2        2           4     none
Supervision VII   U1B2         03/75         3        3           9     04/23/75
Supervision VIII UKB2          07/75         1        2           2     none
Supervision 1X    URB2         10175         2        3           6     none
Supervision X     URB2         07/76         2        4           a     04/22/76
Supervision XI    URB2         04/76         3        1           3     none
Supervision XII   URB2         10/76         2        2           4     12/30/76
Supervision XIlI URI2          01/77         3        1           3     03/31/77
Supervibion XIV   UKB2         09/78         1        1           1     09/22/78
Supervision XV    Ul:B2        10/79         2        3           6     04/14/80-
Iompletion        EZPUR        05J81         1        3           3     06/12/81
Total                                     31                   66
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                                                  Tunisian Dinar (TD)
Year:                                                             Ex;hnnge kaLe
Appraisal Year Average
Incervenina Year Average                                        US  1- 0.42
Completion Year Average                                         US  I - 0.485



- iii -
TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 937/CREDIT 432-TUN)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project was
the first Bank project addressing urban issues in Tunisia. The objectives of
the project were (1) to establish effectively the Tunis District - the first
metropolitan planning authority in the country --, and to strengthen its
ability to plan, program and supervise public investments, and design suitable
urban policies for the region; (2) to improve public transport services
through the renewal of equipment, expansion of maintenance facilities and
upgrading of management; and (3) to improve traffic conditions for both public
and private transport in Greater Tunis.
2.       After some delays in its start-up phase, especially in building a
competent staff, the Tunis District was able to carry out a number of sectoral
studies (e.g., housing, industrial development) as well as special studies
(e.g., on public/social facilities capital and operating costs, development of
the Lake shore, solid waste management), and produced a Regional Structure
Plan.   Most of its endeavors had significant impact  on the Greater Tunis
region (e.g., solid waste), and occasionally, nationally (e.g., housing).
Also, the District gradually became the moderator/advisor on many development
issues  affecting  the  region.   However,  the  District  did not  fulfill  the
functions related to programming and supervision of public investments,
essentially because of a lack of political backing.  Its effectiveness being
highly dependent on the quality and commitment of its top management, it is a
reflection of political realities that, in the last few years, the Director
General changed twice and the District remained without any leadership for
more  than  a  year.   It  would  take  political  support  from  the  highest
authorities in the country for the District to achieve fully what it was
established to do.
3.       Ridership of the public transport company in Tunis (SNT) went from
152 million in 1979 to 253 in 1980; an average annual growth of 7.5%, against
5.2% that was forecast at the time of appraisal for the same period.  The
renewal and expansion of the SNT bus fleet, and a complete overhaul of the TGM
railway operation were major reasons for this success. The effectiveness of
SNT maintenance operations also improved substantially: (a) bus availability
went from 60% in 1973 to 80-83% in the 1975-1980 period; and (b) the breakdown
rate fell from 6.5/10,000 km to 1.8; these improvements, however, were
achieved at high costs, with low productivity of maintenance staff being the
leading cause. Schemes that were originally designed to relate the magnitude
of financial support that SNT would receive from the government to the staff
productivity of the company, were not implemented; the main reason for this
being the weakness and limited proficiency of the SNT's supervising ministry.



- iv -
4.       The  traffic  improvement  program  in Tunis was supported  by  local
authorities and was substantially expanded relative to estimates made at the
time of appraisal.  The number of intersections eventually upgraded, equipped
with signals and connected into a centrally-controlled system nearly doubled,
and the number of pedestrian-only streets was nearly tripled. The program was
implemented well, but suffered from poor follow-up and monitoring, as was the
case for SNT; eventually, most reserved bus lanes were again lost to common
traffic. Nonetheless, the city was able to maintain average traffic speeds in
its downtown area, whereas conditions would have worsened very significantly
without the project.
5.       Whereas the physical works of the project were successful, on the
institutional side, only cautious optimism is warranted.  SNT should be able
to maintain quality management, but the Tunis District is likely to remain
weak. Policy-wise, the Government is moving only very slowly toward effective
decentralization of decision-making power, and remains weak in sectors like
urban transport.  This first urban project laid down the basis for continued
assistance to strengthen the urban sector, which had remained too long
overlooked.
6.       The following points may be of particular interest;
(1) Worldwide inflation starting in 1974 was very detrimental to the
project and made it necessary to find complementary financing, thus
delaying completion by nearly two years.
(2) The reversal by the Municipality of Tunis of its original decision to
transfer land to SNT for construction of its bus maintenance
facility, caused a delay of nearly three years on this component.
(3)  Monitoring  SNT  and  its  performance  proved  elusive  which  made
determination of its financial assistance difficult, and prevented
the experience gained from SNT being used to help other public
transport companies.
(4) Traffic improvement measures, while popular with the public and the
authorities, are very dependent on the continued commitment of the
authorities to maintain and enforce them (e.g., reserved bus lanes in
major transport corridors, parking bans along the curb on major
arteries).
(5) The Tunis District, with its regional focus, became influential on
issues of national importance -- such as housing.



TUNISIA: TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
The Tunis Metropolitan Area
1.01     In 1956, the year of independence, the population of the metropolitan
area of Tunis was about 400,000; by 1972, it had more tha- doubled, to almost
900,000. Growing at 52 annually, the population of the a.rea was projected to
reach 1.5 million by 1980.
1.02     The  Tunis metropolitan area encompasses the built-up areas, three
lakes and a substantial amount of rural land; its boundaries are over 140Nkm
long. The city of Tunis and the 13 communes which make up its suburbs cover
only about 33,000 ha., less than 13Z of which is truly urbanized. The form
and  structure  of  the  area's  urban  space  is,  in a  sense,  unique.   The
traditional quarter (Medina) and its "suburbs" remain virtually untouched,
retaining the typical layout of a North African medieval town, whereas the
modern city has formed a new center between the Medina and the Lake of Tunis,
and residential suburbs of single-family dwellings have developed to the
northwest and southeast and along the coast to the north and south.
1.03     A  large part of the economic activity of, and employment  in the
country is concentrated in the Tunis metropolitan area.  In 1972, at the time
of project identification, the area accounted for more than half the nation's
total commerce and trade, construction and administration.  The active labor
force was estimated at 237,100, of which about 13.8Z was officially listed as
unemployed.
1.04     The transport system serving metropolitan Tunis has been complicated
by the walled Medina and the constricted location of the city center. One of
the main causes of urban transport problems has been the pattern of land use;
at the time of project preparation, the metropolitan area had an excessive
concentration of employment in the center, scattered residential growth in the
periphery, and uneven distribution of urban amenities and infrastructure. The
economic consequences of this were manifold, inciuding a steady increase in
the length of home-work and home-shopping trips, and increasingly high
infrastructural costs.
1.05     In 1970, there were some 45,000 vehicles registered in the Tunis
metropolitan area, of which about 31,000 were private and commercial
automobiles;  7,000 trucks and lorries; and 650 buses.  In addition, 20,000
automobiles  registered elsewhere were being operated  in  the  Tunis  area.
Average car ownership was low at about 40 cars per 1,000 people, but with some
high-income areas boasting 1 car/household. The fleet was growing at 5S a
year, with a similar growth rate for the traffic.  According to the 1969
household survey, the average trip rate was 2.6 trips per person per day, with
a prevalence of home-to-school (52S) and home-to-work (31S) trips. Modal
split was the following:



- 2 -
Mode                      All Trips (S)     Motorized Trips (S)
Walking                        70                 _
2-wheel vehicles                2                 6.7
Taxi                            1                 3.3
Private auto                    5                16.7
Public transport               22                73.3
The monocentric urban pattern, the physical constraints in the street network,
the lack of systematic traffic and parking management, and anarchic driving
practices combined to produce a badly congested inner city. Peak hour average
speeds were about 10-12 km/hr., with bus speeds at about  10 km/hr.   The
projected 40X increase in bus fleet and traffic was both a threat to an
already poor traffic performance, and a stimulus to improve conditions under
which buses would operate.
1.06      Aware of transport problems and difficulties in managing the growth
of the metropolitan area, the Government promulgated on February 15, 1972, Law
No. 72-1 establishing the Tunis District-the first regional authority ever
created in the country-to guide the area's development.   The decision to
establish the District sprang from the need to provide for the orderly
development of the metropolitan area by coordinating the infrastructural
programs of ministries, public agencies and communities on the basis of
long-term planning policies.
1.07      The District's geographical limits were to be the same as those of
the Governorate of Tunis--the governorates being the principal units of
regional administration in Tunisia.   The law establishing the District set
forth a somewhat more complex institutional structure than that prevailing in
other governorates. Under Law No. 72-1, the District's highest authority was
to be the Council (Conseil Sup6rieur), chaired by the Prime Minister, and
consisting of seven ministers and the Governor of the Tunis Governorate. Its
mandate was to approve development plans for the metropolitan area, and to act
on  the  suggestions  submitted  to  it  by  the  District  Board  (Conseil
d'Administration).  There was also to be a Consultative Committee consisting
of representatives of the Neo-Destour Party and of national and regional
bodies.  This organization showed one important gap:  the absence of a formal
structure to bring together technical representatives of ministries and
autonomous public corporations to discuss common problems and resolve issues,
and thus to obviate wherever possible the need to submit these issues to the
Council.
Role of the Project
1.08      In mid-1972, the Government of Tunisia requested assistance from the
Bank Group in financing an urban project for the metropolitan area of Tunis,
designed to (i) establish effectively the Tunis District, and strengthen its
technical capabilities to plan, program and supervise public investments and
to establish suitable urban policies for metropolitan Tunis; (ii) improve
public transport services by purchasing new equipment and increasing the
efficiency of public transport management; and (iii) improve traffic
conditions for both public and private transport. The project was to be the
Bank's first involvement in the urban sector in Tunisia.



- 3 -
1.09      In formulating the project, the Government placed special emphasis
on the effective establishment of the Tunis District as the institution
responsible for identifying urgent needs and guiding future metropolitan
growth. Establishing the Tunis District was also to be a first step towards
decentralization  of public administration in Tunisia.   However, making the
District a reality, building up its staff, and making it operational proved an
arduous task.  The project nonetheless contributed to the organization and
staffing of the District, as well as to the definition of its authority and
relations with other agencies. Also, in order to bring together decision-
making representatives of interested ministries and public corporations and to
close the gap referred to in para. 1.07, the project assisted in the addition
of a Technical Coordinating Counittee to the Tunis District.
1.10      The  Government  also  gave  priority  to  public  transport  in  the
District because the availability of reliable and efficient public transport
would have an important impact on the direction of the future growth of the
metropolitan area.  The project eventually provided assistance to (i) renew
and expand the bus fleet to meet requirements for the 1973-76 period, (ii)
improve bus maintenance, (iii) renew the suburban rail system, and (iv)
improve traffic conditions for both pedestrians and vehicles in the congested
areas of  the  city.   The project  also assisted  in the adoption of sound
management practices for both the bus and the rail systems, and in the
introduction of priority schemes for public transport.
Brief Details of Proiect
1.11      The title of the project was "Tunis District Urban Planning and
Public Transport Project." It was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors
on August 7, 1973 and financed by the Loan No. 937-TUN for $11.0 million and
the Development Credit No. 432-TUN for $7.0 million.   The agreements were
signed on October 5, 1973.
Source of Information of this Report
1.12      This Project Completion Report is based on information contained in
the Project Appraisal Report  (4Ne. 157a-TUN of July 5, 1973)-' and a review
of Bank files including supervision and progress reports. Two special reports
prepared by consultants towards the end of the project were of particular
value:   one, commissioned by the borrower, on the public transport component;
the other commissioned by the Bank, on the traffic management component. A
supervision mission visited Tunis in early May 1981 to obtain additional
information for the Report.  The final updating of the report followed an
urban transport sector mission in September 1981.
1/ Hereafter AR



2. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin and Formulation of the Project
2.01      In May 1972, the Tunisian Government requested Bank assistance in
financing an urban transport project for the metropolitan area of Tunis. The
Government envisaged the renewal of the bus fleet operating in Greater Tunis
and the modernization of the Tunis-La Goulette-La Marsa (TGM) railway line
serving the northern suburbs. Feasibility studies were being carried out by
two consulting  firms, BCEOM and SOFRERAIL.  A Bank reconnaissance mission
visited Tunis in July 1972 to review with Government and Sociktf Nationale des
Transports (SNT) the status of the above studies and to assess proposals for
the improvement of public transport in Tunis. The mission was of the opinion
that, although transport problems in Tunis were not yet critical, the
combination of population growth and deterioration of existing public
transport services called for prompt action and investment programs.
2.02      The reconnaissance mission suggested that an urban transport project
for  Tunis  could  include  the  following  major  items:   (a)  renewal  and
rehabilitation of the bus fleet; (b) construction of a bus maintenance depot;
(c) modernization of the TGM line for which detailed engineering and tender
documents were already available; and (d) a transport/land use study for the
Greater Tunis metropolitan area. The preliminary cost estimate for such a
project was TD 11.0 million (US$22.0 million) with a foreign exchange
component of about 75S. for a possible Bank loan estimated at about US$16.0
million.  The preliminary justification of the project was based on three
primary  considerations:   (i)  the  benefits  expected  from  the  renewal  of
transport equipment that had exceeded its economic life; (ii) the need to
maintain a satisfactory level of public transport services for the growing
population to continue to rely on public rather than private transport; and
(iii) the adoption of coordinated investments in the transport system to
ensure a balanced growth of all modes.
2.03      At the time of the Government's request. public transportation in
Tunis was provided by (a) the SNT bus system, consisting of a 360 vehicle bus
fleet  servicing  50 urban and suburban  lines  which totalled 500 km, with
individual lengths ranging from 3 to 35 km and an average length of about 15
km; (b) a northern suburban railway line 20 km long, the TGM, operated by SNT,
built in the early 1900s and operating with a rolling stock dating back to
1902-09; (c) a southern suburban railway line, 17 km long, run by the Soci6tv
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) as part of the national railway
system; and (d) about 1,100 taxis.
2.04      SNT had a large maintenance depot at Bab Saadoun, which was designed
in the early 1950s to serve a tramway system. A new bus depot for servicing
and garaging 250 buses was being built at Cherguia in the northern suburb, and
SNT had plans for the construction of a second depot to serve 250 buses at
Kebaria, in the southern section of the city. Maintenance was a major problem
for the bus fleet. spare parts were scarce and difficult to obtain. Because
of serious shortcomings in maintenance and lack of proper servicing, buses
were immobilized about 40 days a year on the average. The SNT bus system
employed 1.500 persons out of the 2,640 SNT total labor force.



2.05      The BCEOM report proposed renewal of about 25S of the existing bus
fleet and expansion of the fleet over the next  five years.  The renewal
program offered a number of options, based on assumptions on the economic life
of vehicles and the level of maintenance.  Within each option,  the study
indicaited the number of buses to be purchased over a period of five years,
which varied according to the percentage of articulated buses (with a capacity
nt:arly doutble that of a regular bus) to be included. Total investments for
purchatst- of buses and related spare parts for the 1972-76 five-year period
were estinumtad to range from TD 3.0 million (197 new buses) to TD 4.5 million
(241 ne-w buses), depending on the assumptions.
2.06      As regards procurement of buses, the Government had no objection to
ttC  BXank's  procedure  of international competitive bidding.  Mowever, the
nu,rket for Duses for Creater Tunis was limited and not very attractive for
intern.tion.al t-nders; as a result, the merits of attempting to coordinate the
Supp)ly of buses to meet the transport needs of the three (or more) largest
cities  in  the  country were discussed by the reconnaissance mission.  The
Pank's point of view was that the standardization of buses could serve tairee
cnds:  to hold down bid prices, to induce uniform maintenance practices, and
tin atchiCVct economics in maintenance costs.
2.07      The modernization program for the TGM prepared by SOFRERAIL proposed
the  clectrification of the system to 25 KV AC, the installation of automatic
block signalling equipment, and the complete renewal of the railway car fleet;
the total cost of the modernizat>on program was estimated at TD 4.0 million.
The SOFRFRAIL sLudy compared this alternative against maintaining the existing
6)0 VI'C system with the inherent hazards due to its third rail, and concluded
in t.ivor of the 25 kY AC system. The study also analyzed different solutions
oi) moderTnize and improve the southern suburban railway line run by SNCFT, and
rf--oriume.nded that the two suburban railway lines be connected. The Government,
hn(-cvqr. wr ; reluctant to adopt the last recomndation in view of the
diiSirultirs to) integrate the TCM and southern lines due to their different
g.au:g!. ( thte tlormer was standard 1.44 m gauge; the latter, metric gRuge).
,       i srt (:FT's southern suburban line was part of  the national  railway
yvst,tem. idit tsherefore, the Covernment did not wish a takeover of this line by
2S        Thr PCFR:OM traffic study was based on data collected in 1970, and
provit'l-  in;lruiation  on  traffic  flows,  origin/destination and  purpose of
tr..w'.v.  Tl- study indicated that major traffic flows were between the suburbs
;and t1.e  rity  ce-nter--whcre the major part of employment was located-, and
tii.tt :.i  o' the home-to-work trips were made toward this center.  The data
a1.-' indtic.t-d. th.at a sizeable number of passengers comuuting between the
s        h s  .idh to  transfer at the  city  center.  in  the  absence  of  direct
i-r-prt iono.
;r. ,,    1-r.f ;dr.It ion
Pro.,et   preparation  had  to  tackle  the  fact  thet  information
.1's .t  t'.iws either outdated or too aggregate and difficult to utilize.  The
;4*-1 'ian offered few well-justified spatial guidelines, and failed to
c. *- sound investment programing framework.  The most recent census was



- 6 -
that of 1966, and the 1960 traffic study barely went beyond the extrapolation
of past urban development trends. F3nally, the 1972 BCEOM study of SNT fell
short of the expectations of the new SNT management who commissioned a new
study to substantially complement the old one.
2.10      Preliminary  cost  estimates  for  the  proposed  TGM  modernization
program were at TD 5.0 million. Viewed against the population served by the
TGM-10% of the total Greater Tunis population, and to a substantial extent, a
rather affluent population--, investment per capita appeared excessive.  The
alternative of substituting the TGM line by buses was explored in a
preliminary fashion and showed that servicing the TC-M corridor would require
about 30 vehicles  at a  cost of  TD 450,000.   The magnitude of the cost
difference between these two alternatives was such that the Bank preparation
mission recommended that other alternatives be investigated, and that their
costs and benefits be compared in order to reach a decision on a more reliable
basis. Among these alternatives was the rehabilitation of existing facilities.
2.11      In the course of project preparation, SNT appeared in substantial
need of technical assistance to reach a satisfactory level of operation.  It
was suggested that four experts be assigned to SNT for about two years: (a) a
financial expert to set up a proper accounting system and propose improvements
to the structure of the fare system; (b) a bus operation expert to work on
scheduling of services and training of personnel; (c) a bus maintenance expert
to organize the depots, establish an efficient system for preventive
maintenance and train the related staff; and (d) a rail operation and
maintenance expert, if the TGM railway was to be modernized.
2.12      The  Bank  preparation  mission  drew  the  attention  of  Tunisian
authorities to the traffic increases that would be associated with the
operation of the project financed buses-and hence, to a need to study and
monitor traffic flows-and the need of incentives to encourage the use of
public transport and discourage that of private cars.  It was recommended,
therefore, that consultants be hired to work on public transport policy issues
and to assist in planning and programming future urban development. The same
consultants were also to (i) train Tunisian technical staff,  (ii) provide
technical support to the Tunis District, (iii) assist in designing integrated
urban debelopment policies, and (v) help prepare priority projects.
2.13      A bank preappraisal mission visited Tunisia in December  1972 to
review  the  dossiers  prepared  by  SNT  and  the Municipality  of Tunis.   A
consultant was on the mission to analyze the TGM moderni.-ation program
specifically.   The mission concluded  that  it was unreasonable--if  at all
possible-to maintain beyond five years the TMG's overaged rolling stock.  The
alternative of closing the railway line would require extensive roadwork
between La Goulette and La Marsa, and faced serious reservations from SNT, the
Municipality  of  Tunis  and  the Government.   A rehabilitation/modernization
program was gradually identified:  as a first step toward reducing costs,
electrificatioin of the system to 25 KV AC was rejected because of the high
capital and operating costs.  This change alone reduced the original cost
estimates of the TGM component by 502. Further alternative measures to reduce
the overall cost were considered, including acquisition of diesel-powered
vehicles, replacement of the rolling stock with new 600 VDC electric
equipment, purchase of used motors and other equipment to be installed on new
cars.



-7-
Project Appraisal
2.14      The Bank appraisal mission was in Tunis from January 15 to
February 8, 1973.  In the course of appraising each project component and
assuring its overall effect on the improvement of Tunis transport, it was
found desirable to modify further the project content.  Regarding the bus
acquisition component, the Government and SNT officials requested that against
the original proposal which was to cover bus requirements for the 1973-75
period, the project finance the purchase of all the buses needed by SNT for
the Four-Year Plan (1972-76) period. The need for additional bus maintenance
facilities was also taken into account to ensure proper overhaul and maximum
use of available vehicles.
2.15      For  the  railway  component,  six  alternative  TGM  modernization
programs (three rail and three bus alternatives) were costed and evaluated.
The rail alternatives included the replacement of the existing rolling stock
with new electrically-powered equipment, the acquisition of used motors and
other equipment to be installed on new cars, and the purchase of
diesel-powered vehicles. Bus alternatives involved closing the TGM line and
replacing it by a bus system, and included bus operations on the existing road
infrastructure, or conversion of the TGM right-of-way to exclusive busway. A
comparison of these alternatives showed that maintaining and rehabilitating
tne electric rail service was the most economic solution.  The comparative
cost data to support this conclusion were developed in consultation with SNT,
the Ministry of Public Works, and local and international experts.
2.16      To  provide  for  a  comprehensive  approach  for  solving  urban
transportation problems, other essential components were included in the
project, inter alia assistance to the Municipality of Tunis for increasing
street capacity, improving circulation, discouraging private automobile use in
the  downtown  area,  and  encouraging  the use  of public  transport.   These
measures were to be among the major factors determining the effectiveness of
the bus component.  It was also proposed that the project include the purchase
and installation of traffic signals and minor civil works to improve the
operation of street intersections; also, that the Municipality improve traffic
conditions through the introduction of one-way streets and prohibited turns,
and the promulgation of limited parking regulations, including the towing of
cars parked on major streets.
2.17      The appraisal mission also found that, notwithstanding the 1972 Law
instituting  the  Tunis  District,  the agency was still non-existent.   The
mission reconmended external support in the form of a UNDP project for (a) the
provision of six experts for two years, (b) sector studies on housing,
transport and public finance, and (c) feasibility studies on low cost housing,
developing the banks of the Lake of Tunis once its pollution was resolved, and
the future of the Tunis port area; these studies to be subcontracted and
supervised by the Tunis District, if need be. A UNDP officer came to Tunisia
to join the appraisal mission and assist the Government in drafting a UNDP
Project Document.



2.18      During project appraisal, the Government requested the Bank mission
to  look  into  the urban problems of Sfax and consider the possibility of
including in the project, development and pre-investment studies for Greater
Sf ax.   The  Directorate  of  Amenagement  du Territoire  in  the Ministry  of
Equipment had already completed a first-phase study in which the major
problems affecting the city had been identified and preliminary proposals had
been put forward. The main objective of the requested studies was to evaluate
development options and lay the groundwork for urban projects suitable for
future consideration by external sources of financing, with a view towards
developing Sfax as the main urban center in the South.
2.19      As agreed between the Government and the Bank, the Tunis District
Urban Planning and Public Transport project consisted of the following parts.
Part A: purchase and putting into operation of up to 210 buses, and
purchase of spare parts for the SNT bus fleet;
Part B: construction and equipping of a bus maintenance depot for
SNT at Bir Kassa, and improvement of all SNT bus maintenance
operations and facilities;
Part C: rehabilitation of TGM suburban railway services by purchase
and putting into operation of 26 new rail cars (13 of which
electrically powered), as well as a stock of spare parts;
renewal of track and signalling equipment; and improvement
of TGM maintenance operations;
Part D: technical and managerial assistance to SNT during project
implementation;
Part E: technical assistance to the Municipality of Tunis in
establishing and implementing modern traffic engineering,
control measures and regulations;
Part F: construction works for improvement of street intersections
and  for  experimental  pedestrian  tunnels;  as  well  as
installation   of   additional   traffic   signals   in   the
Municipality of Tunis;
Part G: technical assistance to help the Tunis District assume its
planning, programming and supervision functions and train
its personnel; and
Part H: technical assistance to undertake an urban development study
of Sfax.
2.20      The  total  cost  of  the  project,  including  contingencies,  was
estimated at about TD 12.5 million (US$28.6 million equivalent). The foreign
exchange  component  was  estimated  at  TD  8.5  million  (US$19.5  million
equivalent),  or  68Z of  the  total  cost.   Project cost  estimates  and  the
financing program are summarized in Annex I.



- 9 -
2.21      The Tunis District was made responsible for the overall supervision
of project execution.   To  this end, agreement was reached during project
negotiations that a decree would be issued providing the District with proper
organization and staff, and establishing a Technical Coordinating Committee
bringing together senior technicians of the ministries and public agencies
involved in the project.  Issuance of the decree, hiring qualified staff for
the  District  and  establishment  of  the  Committee  were  conditions  of
effectiveness.  It was also agreed that SNT would begin executing the public
transport improvements (Parts A - C) during the fourth quarter of 1973, and
that procurement of buses, TGM rail cars and other necessary equipment would
take  place  over  a  three-year  period.   The  Tunis  Municipality  was  made
responsible for executing the traffic engineering and control measures
(Part F).
2.22      Despite  earlier  tentative  agreements   (see  para.   2.06),  the
Government proposed during negotiations that the procurement of buses to be
financed under the project (Part A) be undertaken by SNT through the local
bus, truck and automobile manufacturing enterprise, Societe Tunisienne
d'Industrie Automobile (STIA). To ensure that the cost to the project of the
STIA assembled buses would not be unreasonable, it was agreed that buses would
be procured through STIA only if STIA's offer would not exceed by more than
15X an international reference price, Cif Tunis, for comparable buses. This
reference price was to be established by SNT with the assistance of an
independent consultant and agreed upon by the Bank.  If STIA prices were to
exceed this limit, SNT would acquire complete buses through international
competitive bidding.
2.23      SNT agreed not to undertake until December 31, 1978, any "major"
project related to its urban operations (defined as any project requiring an
aggregate investment exceeding TD 250,000) without first satisfying the Bank
that such a project would not interfere with SNT obligations under this
Credit/Loan, a bus fleet expansion of up to 110 buses between 1976 and 1978
being an exception.  Furthermore, SNT agreed to submit for Bank review the
technical and economic justification of its 1976-1980 urban operations
investment program, no later than December 31, 1975.
2.24      The Government requested UNDP assistance to finance Part G of the
project for the benefit of the Tunis District.  The long-range objective of
the UNDP project was to assist the staff of the District to initiate and
supervise integrated development in the Greater Tunis area, and it was
expected that the UNDP project would permit strengthening and training of the
District's technical and administrative staff.  It was also expected that it
would enable short-and medium-term corrective measures to be taken without
delay, and a continuing planning process for the long term to be gradually
developed and established. The immediate objective of the UNDP project was to
train and guide a multi-disciplinary team and increase its capacity to carry
out  its  work  program.   In  July  1974,  UNDP  approved  a  contribution  of
US$850,000   against   a   Government   counterpart  financing  of  US$497,000
equivalent. IBRD was made the executing agency of the UNDP project.



- 10 -
2.25      On  August  7,  1973,  the  Bank's  Board  of  Directors  approved  a
development credit in an amount equivalent to US$7.0 million (Credit No.
432-TUN) and a loan  of US$11.0  million  (Loan  No.  937-TUN).   The  legal
documents were signed by representatives of the Government and the Bank on
October 5, 1973.
3. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness
3.01      Conditions of loan/credit effectiveness (Section 8.01 of the Loan
Agreement) were the following:   (a) authorization or ratification of the SNT
Project Agreement on behalf of SNT; (b) authorization or ratification of the
District Project Agreement on behalf of the District; (c) authorization or
ratification of the SNT subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Government
and SNT; (d) issuance of the District Organization Decree by the Government in
a form satisfactory to the Bank; (e) establishment of a Technical Coordinating
Committee  (consisting  of  decision-making  level  officials  of  interested
ministries and public agencies) within the District; (f) appointment of a
qualified and experienced Directeur G6neral of the District; (g) employment of
a  traffic  engineering  consultant  by  the  Municipality  of  Tunis;  and
(h)Nemployment of engineering, management and cost accounting consultants by
SNT;   and  (i) employment  of  seven  experts  and  six  counterparts  by  the
District.    January  31,  1974  was  specified  as  the  expected  date  of
effectiveness.
3.02      The above date was first postponed until May 15, 1974 because most
of the conditions of effectiveness were not yet fulfilled; by early 1974, the
only steps taken to meet such conditions had been the appointment of the
Directeur  General  for  the District.   In May,  the consulting firm to the
District was selected and appointed. At the request of the Planning Ministry,
the effectiveness was again postponed until July 15, 1974.   Selection and
appointment of corsultants and counterpart technical personnel, and the
issuance of the District Organization Decree in a form satisfactory to the
Bank were the conditions most difficult to fulfill. The decree, issued and
published in November 1973, was not entirely satisfactory on a number of
points despite submission of comments by the Bank on previous drafts; Inter
alia the November 1973 decree did not provide for (i) examination by the
District (prior to commitment) of investment proposals from public agencies
and authorities; (ii) inclusion in the investment budgets of technical
ministries, of projects responding to priorities established by the District;
(iii) supervision by the District of implementation of other agencies'
programs and projects; and (iv) entrusting the District with the authority to
comment on private industrial and commercial investment proposals. The sum of
these omissions amounted to a considerable weakening of the power and the role
of the District.  The Bank requested that the decree be amended, but the
Government remained hesitant to do this less than a year after the decree had
been promulgated. The Bank, eventually, agreed that circulaires d'application
would be  issued and  that-for  effectiveness  purposes-a  letter  would  be
submitted to the Bank, giving the points to be covered by the circulaires and
the dates by which they would be issued. Third and fourth extensions of the
effectiveness were requested and accepted by the Bank. Finally, the Loan and
Development Credit became effective on September 24, 1974.



- 11 -
3.03      The delays in the fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness had an
adverse impact on the timely start-up of the project and the implementation
schedule.   Critical  to  the establishment  of  the  Tunis  District  and  the
execution of its work program was the participation of Tunisian staff (see
para. 3.01, condition (h)). Of the 23 counterparts to be appointed by early
1975 as agreed under the Project Agreement, only six had been recruited by
then, making it impossible for foreign technical assistants to reach their
main objective, namely, the training of Tunisian staff in urban planning
operations.   The  absence  of a competitive  salary  scale and  the lack  of
administrative and financial autonomy to ensure its development as an
effective metropolitan agency were also among the causes of the District's
initial problems.
3.04      Beyond  effectiveness, most covenants  in Loan, Credit and Project
Agreements were satisfied, although frequently with substantial delays (see
Annex IV). Most covenants that were not satisfied pertain to SNT financial
management as a result of the Government's reluctance to adopt a clear system
of targets by which both SNT and the Ministry of Finance would have been
respectively and concomittantly bound to such operational and compensation
targets.
Revisions
3.05      TGM Component.  The eight-months delay in fulfilling conditions of
effectiveness of the project coincided with a period of sharply rising world
prices in 1974. The TGM component of the project suffered the worst damage in
this respect; when the bids for 26 rail cars were opened in January 1975, the
prices quoted by the lowest, technically acceptable offer were twice the
original  estimates  (TD  316,000  for a  2-car  set).   The  Bank appointed  a
consultant to investigate the magnitude of this cost differential; the
consultant reviewed prices quoted internationally in early 1973 and 1975 for
comparable equipment, and confirmed that submission to SNT were indeed fair
market prices. Subsequently, the Bank informed SNT that it had no objection,
and the contract was signed in August 1975.  The Government started looking
for supplementary financing and requested from the Bank in November 1976 that
the percentage against which project funds could be disbursed for the TGM
component be changed from 40 to lOOZ until funds were fully exhausted under
the corresponding category. The request was justified by a desire to prevent
delays in the execution of the TGM component while supplementary financing was
being sought.  The Bank did not approve the request, arguing that the whole
TGM component would be in jeopardy unless the Government intensified its
effort  to  make  up  the  difference.   Supplementary  financing  was  finally
obtained from Abu Dhabi (to be spread over both the TGM component and the bus
depot at Bir Kassa)  in March of 1977.   The delivery of the new rail-cars
commenced in mid-1977 -- as compared to September 1974, according to the
schedule agreed upon at negotiations --, and was completed by the end of that
year, two and a half years behind schedule.
3.06      During  these  negotiations,  the  rail-car  supplier  offered  an
additional set of five 2-car trains, at the same unit price as the first 26
cars. In view of the running inflation and diseconomies of small orders, SNT
and the Government accepted this offer. The cars were delivered in mid-1979.



- 12 -
3.07      SNT Bus  Component.   Under the project agreement, 210 buses were
bought for the SNT urban services, and delivered from 1974 through 1978.  In
addition to project financed buses, SNT bought 367 buses in the period
1975-1980 (inclusive), more than half  of  the  1980 fleet.  In  the period
1976-1978, 126 buses were purchased, slightly above the limit set in the
Project Agreement (para. 2.23).
3.08      Traffic Improvement Component.  Following an international tender,
the consulting group SETEC-SOTUETEC-TRANSITEC was appointed in late 1974 to
assist the Municipality of Tunis in carrying out a traffic management study.
The results of the study, published in September 1975, were promptly adopted
by the City Council, and a further contract was awarded to the same
consultants  to produce detailed  designs and  cost  estimates.   The program
differed from that outlined in the appraisal report in that fourteen
intersections  were  to  be  improved  rather  than  six,  three  pedestrian
underpasses were to be constructed rather than five; also, various traffic
signs, reserved bus lanes, and six pedestrian streets were to be introduced
where none had been originally planned. Detailed engineering was completed in
1977 and diverse contracts to implement the improvement were awarded in late
1976 and  1977.   Between  1977 and  1980, the Municipality's  newly created
Traffic  and  Transport  Unit  introduced  further  changes  in  the  traffic
management component, namely:
(i) the layouts of another eleven intersections were improved;
(ii) all pedestrian underpasses were dropped from the program, due to
the prohibitive unit costs involved;
(iii) about 20 additional pedestrian streets were introduced; and
(iv) an area traffic control system encompassing a total of 44
intersections, plus signal equipment for 6 isolated intersections
were introduced.
The net result of all these changes, summarized in Annex II, was that Tunis
was  equipped  with  a  signal  system  significantly  more  extensive  and
sophisticated than originally envisaged, and that the actual costs came to
three times those estimated during project appraisal (para. 3.16 below).
3.09      Technical  Assistance  to  Tunis  District  and _Sfax.   The  credit
agreement specified that sums of US$189,000  (Category VIII) and US$497,000
(Category IX) were earmarked for technical assistance to undertake an urban
development study of Sfax and for the Tunis District, respectively.  Total
disbursements for technical assistance came to be consistent with forecasts.
However, a confusion was introduced between the two objects mentioned above -
Categories VIII corresponding to part H of the project, and Category IX
corresponding to part G of the project, respectively -- ended up being in a
proportion inverse to that written in the Credit Agreements.



- 13 -
Implementation Schedule
3.10      The appraisal report had assumed that the loan/credit would become
effective by early 1974.  On this basis, it was estimated that the project
would take two years to implement and that disbursements would be completed by
mid-1976. As of December 1981, the project was completed with the exception
of  the  SNT bus  depot, scheduled for full completion in early 1982.  The
closing date of the credit/loan, originally set for December 31, 1976, was
postponed by five years, to December 31, 1981.
3.11      The project suffered a variety of delays (see Table 1), starting
with the initial eight months' delay in effectiveness, with a ripple effect on
the timing (and prices) of several project components, but especially the TGM
rolling stock purchase and track upgrading (para. 3.05).
Table 1: DELAYS IN IMPLEMENTATION OF MAJOR COMPONENTS
Start              End            Delay (months)
In    In
Start- Dura- In
Event Activity            Forecast Actual   Forecast Actual      Up   tion  Total
Implementation, from
Date of Effectiveness
to Closing Date           1/31/74  9/24/74  12/31/76 12/31/81    8    52    60
SNT/TGM - Reconstruction
of Way                    10/1/73  mid 1974 7/31/74  end 1977    9    32    41
SNT/TGM - Arrival of
New Cars                  10/1/74  6/1/77   5/31175  12/31/77   32    -1    31
SNT - Arrival of New
Buses                     4/1/74   10/74    12/31/75 12/77        6    18    24
SNT - Construction of
Bir Kassa Depot           4/1/74   mid 1978 12/31/75 1/82        51    22    73
Tunis Municipality -
Traffic Improvements 1/            9/75     mid 1976 mid 1980    -      -    48
1/ From commencement of technical studies to completion of the improvements and
installation of the equipment.



- 14 -
By mid-1976, about 60Z only of loan/credit funds were disbursed.   On  the
traffic  improvement  component,  delays  due  to  extensive  revisions  were
compounded by the difficulties experienced by the Tunis Municipality in
following Government administrative procedures. At one point, the supplier of
traffic control equipment stopped work for four months because his invoices
were not being paid. Also, a contract for training traffic computer operators
and preparing a library of traffic control programs remained dormant for an
entire year. However, the longest delay occurred in constructing the SNT bus
depot at Bir Kassa: about six years in total (seeNTable 1). It took a long
time  to  select-in  cooperation  with  the  Tunis  Municipality-a  suitable
location for the depot, only to have the Municipalitj withdraw its commitment
in 1976.   It then  took another year  and a half  to find an alternative
location. By December 1981, the construction and equipment of the depot were
substantially completed; full completion was scheduled for early 1982. The
cost of the depot increased from an estimated TD 1.6 million (in 1973 prices)
to TD 3.6 million; essentially, because of the delay (the General Price Index
in Tunisia went from 100 in 1973 to 145.2 in 1978, and 169.1 in 1980).
3.12.    In  retrospect,  the  original  time  schedule  for  the  project  was
optimistic, since a number of the delays were due to political/administrative
matters that could have been foreseen in a more realistic manner. Attaching
the loan/credit effectiveness to a major institutional change which involved
redistribution of decision making power, might appear as a weak feature in the
project, but it was a necessary risk since the potential benefits (see para.
1.07 & 3.02) from establishing the Tunis District went far beyond a mere $28
million transport project. A viable alternative, however, might have been to
make this institutional change a condition of Board presentation instead. As
for the late 1973's increase of oil prices and resulting 1974 rise of world
prices, they could not be foreseen and the project implementation could only
suffer from such developments.
Procurement
3.13     As  already mentioned  in paragraph  2.22,  the Government requested
during negotiations that the Bank Group finance imported chassis and
mechanical sub-assemblies for the SNT buses, while the Tunisian enterprise
STIA would manufacture bodies and do the assembly of vehicles.   The value
added  in Tunisia would be  50  to 55 percent.   It was  expected that the
procurement of buses by STIA would help build up STIA's capacity to integrate
further its bus assembly operation, and would thus provide the impulse for a
new industrial activity where Tunisia had comparative advantage because of
low-priced  labor.   STIA  already  had  experience  in assembling buses  from
imported components, and by 1973 had launched an expansion program under which
it was to manufacture bodies-with Van Hool assistance-largely from locally
produced materials, and was to complete buses with imported frames, engines
and gear boxes. This expansion program was to create 300.new jobs in STIA, in
addition to an unspecified number of positions in domestic supplying
industries.
3.14     At the time of Board presentation, STIA had already invited bids for
the supply of bus chassis and mechanical sub-assemblies through international
competitive bidding.  The Bank reviewed the bidding procedures followed by
STIA, and was satisfied that the procedures conformed with the Bank's



- 15 -
procurement guidelines.  SNT employed a consultant to assist in evaluating
STIA's bid price against prevailing international market prices. STIA's bid
did not exceed by more than 15X the international reference price, and the
contract was awarded to STIA.
3.15     In January 1975,  SNT submitted for Bank approval a report on the
evaluation of bids for the supply and installation of signalling equipment
under the TGM railway modernization scheme.l/  Initial bids were found to
contain several errors and omissions, and SNT asked bidders to provide
supplemental  information  and  clarification  on  their  offers.   The  lowest
evaluated bidder was eliminated in view of its lack of experience in supplying
and installing signalling systems for similar public transport projects. The
second lowest bid was also rejected because the proposal did not conform to
the bid specifications. SNT proposed to retain the third bid as the only one
technically  satisfactory.   The  Bank  reviewed  the  detailed  information
furnished by SNT and its consultants and, after discussions with its engineers
and consultants, agreed with SNT's position.
Proiect Costs and Disbursements
3.16     Annex I shows details of project costs as forecasted at the time of
appraisal and actual costs by component, by source of finance, and in total.
These costs can be summarized as follows:
Table 2: PROJECT COSTS, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Cost
Appraisal Forecast          Actual           Differential (.)
TD '000    US$ '000   TD '000    US$ '000       TD      US$
1.  SNT Total             10,868.0   24,843.0   19,286.4   45,919.9    +77       +85
Buses & Spare parts   4,920.3   11,176.8    4,807.6   11,446.7        -2      +2
Bus Depot              1,571.4    3,610.8    3,620.0    8,619.0   +130    +139
TGM                    4,054.1    9,315.7   10,530.2   25,071.9   +160    +169
Tech. Assistance         322.2      739.7       328.6      782.3      +2      +6
2.  Traffic Component        766.0    1,762.0    2,241.2    5,336.2   +193    +203
Tech. Assistance          82.5      190.4       298.2      686.2   +249    +260
Traffic Improvements    683.5    1,571.6    1,953.0    4,650.0   +186    +196
3. Technical Assistance
to Tunis District        737.0    1,695.0       728.9    1,695.0    -_         0
4.  Sfax Urban Study         139.0       319.0      199.1       474.0    +43     +49
TOTAL                 12,510.0   28,619.0   22,455.6   53,425.1    +80       +87
1/ See para. 3.05 on procurement of TGM cars.



- 16 -
The total cost of the project came to TD 22.5 million (US$53.4 million 1/),
compared to TD 10.9 million (US$24.8 million) expected during appraisal.
During negotiations (May-June 1973), appraisal forecasts were adjusted
- especially the foreign exchange component--to TD 12.5 million (US$28.6
million) in view of the provisional agreement reached that the SNT buses might
be supplied by STIA. Thus, actual cost of the project came to be 80% higher
than the 1973 forecast if expressed in TD, or 87% higher if expressed in US$.
This cost overrun is due to a combined effect of sharp price escalation that
started in 1974, long delays in some components (e.g., bus depot) and major
revisions  and  delays  in  others  (e.g.,  traffic  signals).   The  Bank/IDA
contribution to the project, estimated in 1973 to be 631 of total cost,
eventually amounted to only 33X; the rest of the funds were supplied by the
Government and by a complementary loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
3.17      These data illustrate well how a delay of less than a year, in the
initial 1973-74 period, made a tremendous impact on project costs. Contracts
for buying buses for SNT were signed in mid-1974, with actual prices roughly
equal to those estimated during appraisal; bids for TGM rolling stock were
received in January 1975 and were 991 higher than forecasted. The entire TGM
component 2/ ended up costing 1601 more than expected.
3.18      Of  the  $18  million  credit/loan,  a sum of US$17.6  million was
disbursed  3/  (see Annex  III).   Delays  in  project  execution  resulted  in
approximately  equivalent  delays  in  disbursements.   Once  construction  and
procurement started, disbursements proceeded at a rate somewhat faster than
estimated at the time of appraisal. An exception to this were disbursements
for the traffic improvements component (see Table 3), where 452 of the
original amount has yet to be disbursed, due to administrative delays in the
Tunis  Municipality;   this,  however,  is  only  about  22  of  the  Bank/IDA
participation in the project.
1/ Average exchange rate of US$1 = TD 0.42 used for the overall project
implementation period.
2/ Including 5 extra 2-car trains.
3/ As of December 11, 1981.



- 17 -
Table 3: DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN BY CATEGORY
(US$ 000)
CateRory Part of Proiect Amount Allocated in Loan Agreement Amount Disbursed
I           A                       4,927.0                    5,627.0 1/
II         B,C                       9,804.0                     9,700.7
III           B                       1,324.0                       924.5 1/
IV           D                         497.0                       299.8
V           F                          123.0)
VI           F                         525.0)649.0                308.6 2/
VII           E                          114.0                      114.0
VIII           H                          189.0                      474.0 3/
IX           G                         497.0                       185.8 3/
TOTAL                               18,000.0                    17,634.4
1; $700,000 transferred to Category I from Category III in the early period
of project execution.
2/ Categories V and VI aggregated in the early period of project execution.
3/ For comments, see para. 3.09.
4. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE-SNT PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.01     This   section    reviews   technical,   financial,   economic   and
organizational ;erformance as regards the SNT project components.
Assessment of SNT Past Operations and Level of Service
4.02     Major problems affecting the SNT urban bus services, as diagnosed
during project preparation and appraisal, were: overcrowding in buses, low
ride comfort, frequent breakdowns, lack of punctuality, and low travel speeds.
These problems, in turn, were traced to a (i) shortage of buses on the road
vis-a-vis transport demand; (ii) advanced age of part of the fleet; (iii)
inadequate maintenance stemming from lack of facilities, delays in purchasing
of spare parts, and generally low level of efficiency in the maintenance
operation-including its management-; and (iv) congestion of the street
network in which SNT buses operate. As for the TCM suburban railway line, its
cars had been manufactured early in the century and had far outlived their
economic acceptability, while the track, third rail and signalling were in bad
need of reconstruction.
4.03     In addition,  SNT had serious financial problems.   On the revenue
side, fares were kept artifically low by a government decision and
insufficient compensation was paid by the Government for reduced fares imposed
onto SNT for some categories of passengers. Also, a false sense of security
was maintained by fare-box revenues covering costs, the latter reflecting



- 18 -
unrealistically  low write-offs  for equipment depreciation.   On the supply
side, SNT was overstaffed, and modern managerial practices leading to bighor
productivity were generally absent; for example, performance and costs of
various SNT activities were not monitored, and therefore, past experience
could not De fed back into operations.
4.04     The project was designed as a comprehensive package dealing with each
specific problem mentioned above. Hence, the project provided for (i) the bus
fleet to be renewed and enlarged by about 210 buses and for stocks of spare
parts to be refurbished; (ii) maintenance to be improved, which meant opening
a new. fully equipped depot; (Wi) the environment for bus services to be
improved. by launching a traffic improvement program (Chapter 5); (iv) the TGM
track to be reconstructed; (v) modern control to be installed along this line;
and (vi) the TCM fleet to be completely replaced.  On the financial side,
project covenants called for appropriate compensation by the Government for
special fares and for Covernment's approval of fare increases (and/or
regular subsidy payments) sufficient to ensure that the SNT could meet its
operating costs and debt service. The project also provided for technical
assistance in diverse areas of operations and management to help improve
efficiency in the provision of transport services.
4.05     Quantitative targets for future operating performnce were adopted,
along with a timetable for reaching these targets.   Some targets were in
terms of capacity (e.g., fleet size), others in terms of output (e.g.,
passengers carried), yet others were average costs or broad indicators (e.g.,
on maintenance). Tables 4 and 5 show for bus and TCH services, all major
operational indicators at the time of appraisal, operational targets l/ set
for SNT and values of indicators for subsequent years. Annex IV presents the
major agreements/covenants concerning SNT as they were recorded in the
Project,  Loan and Credit Agreements; Annex IV also reviews the borrower's
compliance with these covenants.
Urban Bus Operations
4.06     In physical terms, all project financed 210 buses were bought and put
into service (Table 6). In addition to these SNT purchased another 367 buses
from 1975 to 1980 (inclusive).
1/ Except for 'percent of overload" for which no later data are available.



- 19 -
Table 4As PIT - ElAN NJ S EV1
-     MIJ  OIMADG SrATICSr
1973   for 95     9X      1975     197        1977      1978      1979       195)
135.k;  17J.0    13&2    159.5   179.2        )3.1    2D9.1      221.4       23D.2
NeNoark
Lagth (I.)         lU7       -       910   1,025   1,23)       1,3D6     1,558     1,619          -
Fleet Size         374                                          529        il        631        63B
(NO, Duases)       31/392 21    378           43      49559                 I6368
ApYun) Xt6                    -        7        8       7    5I/12    6I.5'12    6W9/12    661/12
Sdaeduled
(1,OCD mT       19,000            13,5)   23, M0   25.100    29,100    31,500    32,9DD      33,300
(1,ooO)             SD       -        55       59      51        55        53         52         52
Avenag FLeet
Avai Lbility(Z)     6 I/   85         A        83      81        8          5         aD         82
Daily passe sr/
Bus an Servi.e    1,6f6D           1,352   1,3)4   1,224       1,315     1,193     1,19I 1,2D5
Average No.sys
JmuAbLhia.JllUs/            55         -      61       71                  72         75         65
10,O  lu-                            6.5      3.0     2.7       2.2       2.3        2.2        1.8
A.rnge Maim
ter    ODats3/
5 Dt us 3-  2,273   1,577        -        -   4,059      4,3D4     4,587     4.344       4,453
Average (auu¶Ii
Costs 4/
(197 '7l)/lus-)              _ -                -       0.112     0.118     0.125     0.125       0.126
mnistratimv
t1973 ZTU ' D)                -        -        -     849       903      1,013       910        964
Averae Opeatir4g
Costs 5/
(1973 flD/JuI)               -                 -        0.22.     0.227     0.243     0.236       0.241
1/ Mhse am SIT data, ii1yirs 227 vhicles availabl for service an the awe; Appraisal Report cites 3)0
veic1es in service.
2/ kb. of bum  in servce (fleet sie x awrq  fleet availability)
31 All wps deflated usitghe cost of lIvizg iMy; All dateriald t  usixg the Ae    price end.
I Accordzz  to SIr  mula,ture         uig costs  iuhmde                    AMarssifs, -Pj Pr  peratiz
eaqes m  fuel.
5/ Th3e sm of wxuz`.~' mmimmewe .u ze= dmhinistrati:v md miniceflulmioS caste6



- 20 -
lable 5: 9NT - TXI SERVICES
mA R OaTE   : sACTisf
1973   for 1975 1974   1975   1976      1977       1978      1979      198)
Passergers
Car
(Millions)         16.3 1/   19.1   15.9   18.1   19.3       19.6     2M.1       21.3      22.4
Netwokk lngth
(km)               19.5       -      19.5   19.5   19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5
Fleet Size 2/
(Nb. cars)         22        26       -      -      -        26       3D         36        36
Scheduld
Kilketrage
(1,000 in)      2,MDh         -  2,M)0  3,000  2,542    2,8D7       2,8D0     3,302      3,2)D
Average Maiw-
teniwe Costs 3/
(1973 TD/car)    6,50D     1,250      -      -  8,8E) 4/  - 5/    13,6)0 6/ 12,8)5    10,861
Average lbirg
Costs 71                      -       -      -      0.112    0.114      0.114     0.121     0.124
Aministrative
an Misc. Costs                -       -      -    104        87        9)        92        87.5
Average Opertirg
Costs 8/
(1973 TD/car-A)               -       -      -      0.328    0.286      0.32)     0.289     0.273
1/ This is a corrected figure obtaied foma ST sourmes; Appraisal Report had 16.9 million passergers.
2/ Old cars until mid-1977, but 1974-1976 data not awilable; data for 1977 and beyoud refer to now cars.
3/ All wages deflated usirg the cost of living index; all mterials deflated using the wholesale price
index. Tradk mintenaire inclxed.
41 Last full year with old cars.
5/ Year of transition.
6/ First full year with mm cars.
7/ According to SNT nmewlate, 'iru        costs" incxide operators' wages adl umifor., othder operating
expenses and fuel.
8/ Includes '"Vuv3ig costs, mairtn e adl epairs,  ainistratimn and overhead.



- 21 -
Table 6: SNT BUS ACQUISITIONS
(1974-1980,"
1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980   Tof
No.  Cost* No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost  No.
Total Acqui-
sitions        44  744   111 2022  87 1895  79 2121  34 834   65 1590 157 4412  577
Standard
Buses        44  7"4   111 2022  67 1318  18 382   30 729   40 1060 110 3118  420
Articulated
Buses         -    -      -   -   20 577   61 1739   4 114   25 530   47 1294  157
Financed by
IBRD Loan      44  744    92 1643   9 173.  61 1739   4 114    -   -    -   -   210
Standard
Buses        44 744    92 1643   9 173    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -   145
Articulated
Buses         -    -      -   -    --611739   4 114    -   -    -   -    65
I In 1,000 TD
Source: SNT (April 1981 mission)
In spite of bus scrapping, the fleet increased by 69% relative to 1973.  The
average age of the fleet, decreased to under 6 years in 1977, rose to about 7
years in 1980, and is expected to decrease to under 5 years in 1981 following
the scrapping of some 16-year-old buses.
4.07      Bus maintenance was substantially improved,  in spite of the fact
that the depot at Bir Kassa was not completed. This is evidenced 1/ by
(i) an increase in bus availability (from 602 in 1973, to 80-832 over the past
five years; close to the 85Z target) and (ii) a substantial decrease in
average number of breakdowns (from 6.5/10,000 km in 1974 to 1.8 in 1980).
4.08      These improvements  were achieved at a very high cost.  Average
maintenance cost per bus not only failed to drop by 30% as targeted, but
increased by about 100% in real terms (Table 4). Prices of tires and spare
parts increased faster than most other cost components, and so did wages; but
low productivity appears to have been a major factor (see para. 4.25), even if
explainable in part by pressures exerted by Government to maintain employees
on the job even when redundant.
1/ The values assumed by the indicators reflect the fact that buses are
rather new, but this fact was also taken into account when targets were
set.



- 22 -
4.09      In operational terms, the fleet increase of 69S in the 1973-1980
period has made possible a corresponding increase of 742 in the scheduled
kilometrage, 100l in the service network and a decrease of about 261 for daily
bus  loading.  The  improvement in  level  of service  implied by  the above
numbers, generated a 701 increase in the number of passengers; roughly, an 81
growth  rate per annum.  This compares favorably with the 44Z increase in
patronage predicted at the time of appraisal for the same period (Table 7).
4.10      For passengers,  the  level  of  service has  improved  in terms of
availability (network coverage), frequency and comfort (newer and less crowded
buses). There are also fewer breakdowns en route (61 in 1972 vs. 4.6S in
1979). Traffic management improvements have also resulted in higher speeds on
suburban segments of bus routes; unfortunately, traffic improvements have been
less impressive downtown, in terms of bus priority at signals, or in terms of
keeping reserved bus lanes clear of private cars (paras. 5.05 and 5.06).  The
comuercial speeds of some downtown lines have occasionally fallen (e.g., for
the line around the Medina, from 11 km/hr. in 1974 to 7 km/hr. in 1977); in
other words, bus operations were not efficiently sheltered against general
traffic increase.  A comprehensive analysis of bus service  characteristics
-remains to be done; SNT Study Unit carried out two surveys (of frequencies,
adherence to schedules, commercial speeds and passenger volumes) in 1974 and
1977, but results have not been synthesized. Attempts were made to improve
the lot of passengers (e.g., the campaign against smoking in buses,
publication of bus network maps, etc.), but these have remained limited. The
SNT still lacks a genuine coimmercial department to study travel market
characteristics and to design pertinent service improvements.
TGM Operations
4.11      The  TGM  line  has been  completely refurbished,  including  track,
signals,  sub-stations and depot.   The new rolling  stock was  progressively
introduced, starting in mid-1977;  the fleet of 26 cars financed under the
project plus 10 extra cars are now operational (paras. 3.05-3.06).  The only
work items planned under the project and not yet implemented are the
protection of the third rail and fencing. The new service is reliable and
fast (about 35 km/hr. travel speed). The ride is comfortable, with a minimum
of lateral sway and smooth acceleration/braking. Vehicles and stations are
well maintained.
4.12      TGM patronage grew from 16.3 million in 1973 to 22.4 million in
1980, an increase of 371 (i.e., at a rate of about 5X per annuw). This is
only slightly lower than the patronage predicted at the time of appraisal
(Table 7).



- 23 -
Table 7: SNT PASSENGER STATISTICS
COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL FORECAST AND ACTUAL VOLUMES
(million passengers)
Urban Bus Services             TGM                    Total
Year    Forecast 1/  Actual 2/  Forecast 1/  Actual 2/  Forecast        Actual
1972        -          129.6        -           16.3         -          145.9
1973      136.7        135.8       16.9         16.3       153.6        152.1
1974      148.1        138.2       17.4         15.9       165.5        154.1
1975      161.4        159.5       19.1         18.1       180.5        177.6
1976      168.6        179.2       20.5         19.3       189.1        198.5
1977      175.8        203.1       21.1         19.6       196.9        222.7
1978      183.0        209.1       21.7         20.1       204.7        229.2
1979      190.2        221.4       22.3         21.3       212.5        242.7
1980      197.4        230.2 3/    22.9         22.4 3/    220.2        252.6 3/
Sources: 1/  Project Appraisal Report (No. 157a-TUN)
2/  Supervision report by Philippe Laville, Mise en Oeuvre du Projet
de Transports en Commun, 1973-1980, October 1980.
3/ SNT Direction Financiere, Retrospective D6cennale 1972-1981,
Document No. 2, Juin 1981.
4.13      The  only operational  target  set up for the TGM at the time of
appraisal, other than the fleet size, involved average maintenance cost. The
outcome is very disappointing. Average maintenance cost per car was TD 6,500
in 1973, and the target for the new fleet was set at TD 1,250. 1/ In 1976,
the last full year of operations with the old cars, unit maintenance costs
increased to TD 8,860.   In the three years  (1978 through 1980) since the
introduction of new cars, maintenance costs declined from TD 13,600 per car 2/
in 1978 to TD 10,861 in 1980, but remained about 100X higher in real terms
than those in 1973 (Table 5). A number of technical features of the new cars
proved to be inappropriate for operations in the Tunisian environment. For
example, ventilation systems were not up to local summer temperatures and
windows apertures had to be increased.   Other problems  led  to fleet-wide
breakdowns, e.g. short circuits in collecting shoes of electrical motors.
Attempts made to correct these shortcomings were expensive not the least
because the price of spare parts has been exhorbitant.
1/ All thesP unit costs are in constant 1973 TDs.
2/ This cost includes both vehicle and track maintenance.



- 24 -
Fares
4.14      There were four rate increases during the project period, slightly
greater than those agreed upon at the time of negotiations: 30% in January
1974, 101 in August  1977,  151  in April  1978, and  181  in  August  1981.
However, these increases were too low and too late to offset increases in
operating costs. The latest increase was accompanied by a change in fare
structure, whereby the first five tariff zones were reduced to two; this may
for a time discourage short trips, but should ultimately give a reasonable
increase in revenue.
Financial Evaluation 1/
4.15      Because of SNT's financial dependence on the Government (paras. 4.03
and 4.04), conventional financial ratios had not been considered at the time
of appraisal, as c"itable indicators against which SNT's performance could be
measured.   Thus,  the only  targets  set  up at  that  time were  related  to
operational and maintenance costs. The linkage between these and financial
performance was to be clarified under the technical assistance effort, along
with  the  identification  of  other  targets  related  to  staffing,  labor
productivity, budget control, etc. A full set of performance measures was to
be submitted to the Government, the Tunis District, and the Bank/IDA for
approval. Reports were to be semi-annual with annual program reviews, and
Governmental subsidy payments provided to SNT in lieu of tariff adjustments
were to be linked to the system of performance criteria. The above-described
system was never formalized because of sensitive relationships between the SNT
management, the labor union and the Government.
4.16      In  1973, SNT  showed a gross  surplus of  TD  1.2 million  before
charging depreciation and debt financial service, and a net surplus of TD 0.15
million; it had a satisfactory working ratio of 0.85, an operating ratio of
0.97, and a gross cost to total income ratio of 0.98. By 1975, the working
surplus had increased to TD 1.47 million but, as capital investment had
increased, depreciation charges and debt service offset the working surplus
and resulted in a net deficit of TD 0.59 million, after payment of indirect
taxes (TD 0.64 million) and direct taxes (TD 0.11 million). As a result of
fare increases applied in 1974, 1977 and 1978, SNT continued to show a
satisfactory working ratio through 1980. At the same time, fleet performance
had improved, and there was a steady growth in total passenger trips.
Nevertheless, SNT began to experience financial difficulties, its total
earnings not being sufficient to cover all operating and other costs.  The
reluctance to introduce new fare increases has led to an imbalance in costs
and income which (as can be seen in Table 8) was to lead in 1981 to a net
deficit in the region of TD 2.6 million, and an operating ratio of 1.06.
1/ For SNT urban bus and rail operations as well as inter-urban services,
since SNT accounts for years 1973-1981 did not distinguish between these
operations despite Bank/IDA recommendations presumably because of the
difficulties involved in allocating certain joint costs (e.g., maintenance
and administration related) to urban and inter-urban operations.



- 25 -
Table 8: 9NT CATP( JCUNr SUMMARY 1/
Th (000)
Forecasts
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    19ED    1981
Traffic Receipts      6722.00  8483.00 10104.00 11664.00 14099.00 17445.00 19818.00 2D5D0   21852
Other IwAme             93      62      112      137      133     215      294     214      228
(kia ensaticu for
Cbncessionasy Fares  15M0     1500    l500    2)00    2400    2400    2400    2100    21W0
TCOAL INM            8315   10045   11716   13801   16632   2D060   22512   23414   2478D
-nployees            4048    5000    5726    6991    88D2    9609   10489   122D0   13D92
Hbterials             2295    2762    3159    3732    3973    5121    5728    6D27    6537
Other Expenses         211      99      617      792      728     877    1122    1008    1116
Indizect Taxes        487      537      635      847    1134    1344    1316    1411    1517
Direct Taxes            67      85      107      129     16(      192      197     218      235
TOTAL EXEENSES       799    8483   10244   12491   14797   17143   18852  2a864   22497
WDRKING SUJRPLUS     1216    1562    1472    1310    1835    2917    3650    2550    2283
Depieciation           952    1216    1666    105   2a34    2654    3187    3413    3877
Cbntribution to
Finauiig Expenses    119     152      398      5D3     652      789      874     850    1004
NET SJEUS/CDEFICIT) 145        194    (592)   (798)   (851)   (526)   (401)  (1713)  (2598)
ITbrkirg Ratio           0.85    0.84    0.87    0.91    0.89    0.85    0.84    0.89    0.91
Operati.g Ratio         0.97    0.97    L02        1.02    L01    0.99    0.98    L04         L06
Gross Cost/IJcame
Ratio                   0.98    0.98    L05    1.06    1.05    1.03    L02    1.07            .10
Source; Philippe Laville, Mise en Oeuvre du Projet de Transports en  mumm 1973-1979, October 1979
1/ Includes urban bus services, the GIb, and inter-urban bus services.



- 26 -
4.17      The  Government  has  fulfilled  its  obligation  (para.  4.04)  in
principle, in regularly paying compensation for concessionary fares; however,
it did not to the full extent due. As the following table shows, the payments
have increased since 1973 at a pace that would meet inflation, but not
inflation and growth in traffic (of which a rather constant portion is on
concessionary fares).
1973     1974    1975      1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Payments               100     100     100      133.3   160.0   160.0   160.0   180.0
Wholesale Price Index 100      121.2   132.7   134.4   140.9   145.2   155.7   169.1
Cost of Living Index  100      104.0   113.6   120.0   128.0   135.0   145.3   160.0
The Government seems to have preferred meeting its obligations vis-a-vis SNT
through funding capital increases, and through occasional rescheduling of
SNT's debt to the State, from short to long term; this can be seen from
TableN9, "Sources and Applications of Funds Statement".1/ While the above
method has certainly improved SNT debt/equity ratio, it has made the company's
financial planning difficult since the amount and mode of Government funding
has had to be negotiated each year and SNT could not rely on any automatic
process for compensation (or tariff increase for that matter).
4.18      The most worrying feature in SNT's accounts is the steady increase
in capital utilization-resulting from the investment program--and the
continuing increase in financial costs. Table 9 shows that this deterioration
originates with significant capital investments for the financing of which SNT
has been led to borrow on short term. There again, the picture is obscured by
the investment program for inter-urban services, as compared to strictly urban
operations.
1/ Up-to-date results for 1980 and provisional 1981 are available, but could
not be reconciled with Operating Accounts.



- 27 -
Table 9:  SNT SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
TD (000)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
SOURCES
Operating Surplus/(Deficit)   194   (592)  (798)  (851)  (526)  (401) (1713)
Depreciation                   1216   1666   1605   2034   2654   3416   4031
Capital Contributions           900      -      -   2000   3000   1500    500
Long Term Loans               3031   5202   3652   6252   4119   6178   4390
Increase in Short Term Debt      -   2096   2875   2494   1910    451
Subsidy                          -       -     42       -      -       -
Reduction in Net Assets           -      -      -   1570       -       -
TOTAL                        5341   8372   7374  13499  11157  11144
APPLICATION
Financing Expenses in Excess
of Annual Contributions        (36)   143    873   (717)   303    233
Capital Expenditure           1921   5385   3707  10309   4610   9269   9070
Increase in Stocks             262    704   1406   1119    703        -
Increase in Current Assets   1030   1411    161         -    150      -
Reduction in Short Term Debt 1092        -      -       -      -       -
Payment of Long Term Debt      668   1284   1369   2665   2195   3889   4924
TOTAL                        4937   8927   7516  13376   7961  13391
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash      404   (555)  (142)   123   3196  (2247)
4341   8372   7374  13499  11157  11144
Source: Philippe Laville, Mise en Oeuvre du Projet de Transports en Commun
1973-1979,                          October                          1979.



- 28 -
4.19      Table 10 below shows the essential unit costs and revenue over the
project period, for the aggregate SNT operations (bus services and TGM
combined).
Table 10: SNT UNIT COSTS AND REVENUES
(millimes per passenger trip)
Increase Over
the 1973-80
1973   1975   1977   1978   1979   1980   period (2)
Labor Costs               27     32      40     42     43      47        74S
Total Costs               54     69      79     90     94      96        78X
Total Revenue             55     66      75     88     93      89        631
Working Surplus            8      8       8     13     15      10
Net Surplusl(Deficit)      1     (3)    (4)    (2)    (1)    (6.5)
Source: Philippe Laville, Mise en Oeuvre du Projet de Transports en Commun
1973-1979, October 1979, except for the 1980 column which was
corrected on the basis of new patronage data obtained by the May 1981
supervision mission.
It shows that while total costs per passenger trip increased by 781 during
this period, labor costs per passenger trip rose by 74Z; this reflects the
increasing burden of servicing debt and financing capital investment. At the
same time, total revenue per passenger trip increased by only 63S, resulting
in a serious increase  in net deficit  per passenger  trip.   Total  revenue
throughout this period increased by 181X, made up largely by a 74X growth in
passenger trips and a 64% fare increase.
4.20    Balance Sheets for 1978 and 1979 (Table 11) 1/ show that debt:equity
ratios are satisfactory-largely as a result of the injection of capital by
the Government-, but there has been a narrowing of  the working  capital
position. Sources and Applications of Funds Statements have already indicated
a recourse to short term borrowing and non-payment of taxes; this concern is
confirmed by a worsening of the working capital position: in 1978, there were
net current liabilities of TD 2.05 million; in 1979, these had increased to
as much as TD 3.6 million. This is, at best, a delicate financial situation.
1/ The  figures,  however,  could  not  be  reconciled with the   Sources and
Applications of Funds Statements (Table 9).



- 29 -
Table 11: SNT BAIANCE SHEETS
TD (000)
1978                      1979
Detail     Agareg.        Detail      ARRreR.
I - ASSETS
Initial expenses (net)                        7028                       6665
A - Fixed Assets
At cost                         34900                      39067
Depreciation                   (12530)                    (14628)
Subtotal                             22370                      24439
Loans due to SNT                              1791                       1256
TOTAL                                31189                      32360
B - Current Assets
Stocks and materials             5548                       5924
Short term investments           2682                       2628
Cash, Bank account               2504                       1947
Subtotal                             10734                      10499
Deficit                                        524                       1104
Less_Current_Liabilities
Short term loans
(less than 1 year)              4644                      5154
Taxes                            4112                       4825
Other short term debts           4551                       5216
Subtotal                            (13307)                    (15195)
TOTAL                               2049                       3592
TOTAL ASSETS                                 29140                      28768
=======__=-
II - FINANCED BY:
Capital Reserves                              9074                      10541
Provision for finaacing
expenses                                    4905                       4322
Long Term Loans                              15161                      13905
TOTAL                                     29140                      28768
Debt:Equity Ratio                               1:2.2                      1:1.7
Source: Philippe Laville, Mise en Oeuvre du Proiet de Transports en Con3Uz
1973-1979. October 1979.



- 30 -
Economic Evaluation - Bus Component
4.21      At the time of appraisal,  investments  in SNT bus  services were
analyzed in a 3-step sequence: first, it was estimated that investment in the
Bir Kassa maintenance facility alone would not be economical; cecond, it was
estimated that the combined fleet replacement and improvements in maintenance
would have an internal rate-of-return  (hereafter IRR) of 19X; third, when
fleet expansion was added to the above program, the IRR became 29j-30%.
Benefits of the first two steps stemmed from cost savings for a fixed-demand
case (equivalent to 1973 patronage); the third step brought an additional
benefit--that of capturing trips that would otherwise have been made by
car--which was estimated on the basis of average costs of travel by the two
modes, as well as assumed occupancies and average trip lengths. Trips that
would not have been made in the absence of fleet expansion, or would have been
made on foot were not accounted for.  In substance then, the justification of
the third component rested on reduction in operating costs.
4.22      In  the intervening years,  the following changes--relative to the
"with the project" scenario-have taken place:
(i)   construction  of  the  Bir  Kassa  maintenance  facility  has
suffered very significant delays (para. 3.10) and SNT has
managed with old workshops in Bab Saadoun and Cherguia depot
opened in 1974;
(ii)  SNT bought all of the 210 buses as planned in 1973 and at
prices as estimated then, but it added another 367 buses to
its fleet;
(iii) the patronage exceeded all expectations, signifying the
existence of a considerable latent demand for bus transport.
4.23      Actual events having developed in ways substantially different from
those expected "with the project," a straightforward updating of the economic
evaluation carried out during appraisal would be erroneous. As for doing a
radically new evaluation of the actual case, serious methodological and data
problems would be associated with identifying and quantifying a "without
project" scenario.   On the demand side,  the missing key data include trip
length distribution for SNT bus passengers and an assessment of the fraction
of bus patrons who were transit captives as opposed to passengers which were
prospective car travelers and/or pedestrians. On the supply side, the problem
is in estimating what maintenance costs in the "without" case could have
been-considering  that  3ppraisal  estimates  and  expectations  proved  so
different from what actually took place. Nonetheless, the following can be
said:
(i)   the actual  cost of  the bus  component  came very close  to
estimates;
(ii)  maintenance   and   operating  unit  costs   (if  consistently
measured) could only have decreased with the project -ven if
only slightly, at worst-in view of the number of controls
introduced in all SNT activities; and



- 31 -
(iii) ridership in SNT buses has increased significantly more than
expected,   and   therefore,   the  effective   IRR  might-at
worst-not bave reached the 29-30X mark, but should have come
relatively close to such a value, for the most important
benefits (as well as the most "profitable" return on
investment) accrue as a result of economies achieved by the
project diverting to public transport a number of trips that
would have otherwise been made by private car.  Since this
benefit proved to be substantially larger than expected, the
IRR could only reflect positively the greater than expected
project impact, this partly tempered by a slight fall in other
benefits which -- at any rate -- were secondary in magnitude.
4.24      As noted in para. 4.08 and shown in Table 4, unit maintenance costs
have not only failed to decrease from their 1973 level (TD 2,273 per bus) as
expected, but have actually doubled in real terms (TD 4,453 per bus in
1980)N1/. As for the average total operating costs (traffic, maintenance and
administration), the AR does not provide any explicit value for SNT bus
operations in 1973, but implies a unit cost of about TD 0.133 per bus/km. 2/.
This compares with actual operating costs ranging from TD 0.223 in 1976 to
TD-O.241 in 1980 (all in 1973 TDs). Thus, contrary to expectations at the
time of appraisal, operating costs for SNT buses would have nearly doubled
compared to 1973 values, in spite of fleet replacements and expansion, and of
some improvements in maintenance. This, of course, is little indicative of
what would have happened in the absence of these very actions.
4.25      Three causes for this increase have been identified.   First,  as
noted in para. 4.08, prices of tires and spare parts increased very sharply,
and apparently, significantly above average inflation indices.   Second,  low
productivity of the SNT maintenance personnel has been and still is a major
problem of the company, but SNT cannot streamline its personnel at will - as
is the case in many other agencies in the country --.  Finally, operating
costs in the AR were derived from the SNT data produced prior to the
introduction of a cost accounting system, whereas the 1976-1980 data were
produced by the new system; since the TGM operating cost data show a similar
tendency, the change in measurement system may very well be the main cause of
substantial variations in unit costs.
4.26      On the positive side, Table 12 shows that, in the 1976-1980 period,
SNT bus revenues always covered the corresponding operating costs as well as
some capital costs. Furthermore, the sum of fare-box receipts and Government
compensation for subsidized fares has been roughly equivalent to the sum of
operating and capital expenditures for each year in this period. While these
expenditures are accountant's rather than economist's costs, and while
Government compensation can only be treated as a rough proxy for additional
fare revenues that would have accrued in the absence of subsidized fares, the
above numbers suggest that capital investments in the SNT's urban bus
operations have been reasonable.
1/ Annual kilometrage per bus was roughly the same in 1973 and 1980.
2/ AR, Annex 16, page 7.



- 32 -
Table 12: COSTS AND REVENUES OF SNT URJAN BUS AND RAIL OPERATIONS
1976             1977            1978             1979          1980
BuB     TGM      Bus    TSM      Bus      TCM     Bus      TCM   Bus   TGM
Direct operating
coats &/               7.11    0.b3    8.74    1.05   10.76    1.24   11.59   1.42 13.01   1.4
Total costs bI         9.25    1.31   11.59    1.44  '13.95    2.14   15.20   2.35 16.74   2.3
Revenue (fares) c/    7.44    1.12    9.47    1.12   11.97    1.56   13.74   1.81 14.04   1.8
Compensation dl        1.88    0.25         2.53         2.17    0.11    2.22   0.12  2.49   0.1
Total receipts e/      9.32    1.37        13.12        14.14    1.67   15.96   1.93 16.53   1.9
Receipts'Total costs  1.01    1.05          1.01         1.01    0.78    1.05   0.82  0.99   0.8
Passengers carried  179.2    19.3   203.1    19.6   209.1    20.1   221.4   21.3 230.2   22.4
(millions)
Annual Vehicle Kilo-
metrage (millions)   25.1       2.54   29.1      2.81   31.9     2.80   32.9    3.30 33.1    3.2
Unit operating cost
(milliee/passenger) 39.7    32.6    43.0    53.6    51.5    61.7    52.3   66.7  56.5   63.8
Unit operating cost
(millimes/veh-km)   283.3   248.0   300.3   313.7   337.3   442.9   352.3  430.3 393.1  446.9
Unit total cost
(millimeslpasseuger) 51.6    67.9    57.1    73.5    66.7   106.5    68.7  110.3  72.7  104.9
Unit total cost
(millimeslveh-km)   368.5   515.7   398.3   512.5   437.3   764.3   462.0  712.1 505.7  734.4
a/ Sum of running. maintenance and administrative costs in current TD million.
b/ Sum of operating costs, depreciation, taxes and interest payments in current TD million.
_t In current TD millior.
d/ Paid by the Governmer.t for preferential fares (in current TD million)
e/ Sum of revenue and cotipensation (in current TD million).
1 millije = 0.001 TD
Source: SNI Comptabilit6 Analytique



- 33 -
Economic Evaluation - TGM Component
4.27      At the time of appraisal, three rail and three bus alternatives were
evaluated and compared for the TGM component (para. 2.15). An economic rate
of return of 16-171 was astimated for the winning rail alternative over a
"without" scenario based on abandonment of the TOM rail service and its
replacement by bus services operating on city streets.
4.28      In retrospect, a different "without" scenario would have been more
appropriate for economic assessment  purposes.   The reasons have to do with
first,  the  realism  of  the  scenario,  and  second,  the  nature  of  the
methodology. As for the first reason, the AR suggests that the Government was
r-. ween on "abandoning" the TGM, and therefore, It would be hardly justified
that the related "without" scenario selected at the time of appraisal could be
considered as an acceptable reference situation. As for the second reason,
the methodology adopted then for economic evaluation would be fairly adequate
for comparing marginally different alternatives (e.g., when alternatives
differ in costs of supply, while level " service and demand effects are the
sam), but it is such less adequate when this is not true.  In the case of
this project, street buses and trains on exclusive right-of-way do not
constitute effectively comparable alternat.ves; differences in level of
service provided, corresponding differences in perception by passengers, and
conversion of the abandoned right-of-way would have required that a more
sophisticated evaluation procedure be adopted than available data could have
permitted. Finally, the quoted IRR was overstated since it was computed on
"last-but-worst" alternative, rather than on the "last surviving" alteniative
which would probably have been the alernative B (from Annex 6, page 13 of the
AR), involving standard buses operating on converted TGM right-of-way.
4.29      For  the  purpose  of  this  report,  economic  analysis  of  the TGM
alternative was reviseo to reflect concerns of the preceding paragraph and
actual costs of the project.  For this exercise. alternative B from the AR was
adopted for the "without the project" scenario; i.e., the TGM railway as it
was reconstructed under this project was compared with a situation where the
TGM right-of-way would  have been  converted  into an exclusive busway and
passenger service would have been Yrovided using standard urban buses.  For
the "with the project" cash flowL , actual capital costs were used, while
conversion  costs as  estimated  in  the AR were used  for the  "without the
project" case.  Operating costs were estimated on the basis of an analysis of
actual cost accounts for the TGM railway and the SNT urban bus services from
1976 to 1980.  Since the patronage data for the TGM were limited to annual
totals, estimates of the fleet and schedule requirements for the bus
alternative were based entirely on the details of tCe actual TGM schedule.
4.30      The key assumption in the analysis was that the bus line would have
offered a similar level of service as the TGM, and therefore, would have
attracted the same patronage; explicitly, this meant that the shadow bus line
was designed to provide the same number of seats as the TGM at any time of the
day. This also meant that the bus service would have to have somewhat greater
11 Capital costs for the TGM include the costs of the extra 10 cars bought by
SNT.



- 34 -
frequency and capacity, due to the relatively low ratio of seats to total
space on SNT standard buses, '2hile the TGM would retain some advantages in
ride comfort and in-vehicle speed, due to shorter station dwell times. The
estimated rate-of-return of the TGM railway over the "without TGM" (bus)
alternative, computed on this basis came to 10X.
4.31      To test the sensitivity of the   Se-of-return to the assumption on
equal service, another set of calculations was run assuming that buses should
provide the  same flow of passenger spaces (rather than seats).  This, of
course, drastically reduced both the size of the required bus fleet and annual
kilometrage.  Under this assumption, the TGM railway still comes out with a
positive rate of return, but it falls to about 31.
4.32      The fall in the IRR from 16-17X during appraisal to 3-10  in the
present revision is partly due to the different "without" alternatives
selected, but stems much more from the near-doubling of prices for the TGM
rolling stock (para. 3.04) while prices for buses - because of early contract
negotiations - came to be close to those initially estimated.
4.33      In analyzing how successful the TGM project component was, one must,
however, go beyond cost-centered confines, and look into its demand and fare
aspects. According to Table 12, the TGM covers all of its direct operating
costs from the fare box. Its total receipts, however, (fares plus Government
compensation for subsidized fares) have fallen short of total (accounting)
costs each year since reconstruction; the shortfall ranging from 32X in 1978
to 15Z in 1980. Total (accounting) unit costs per passenger are significantly
higher than for SNI bus operations.  In view of a substantial fraction of TGM
users belonging to upper social strata (the rest consisting of the industrial
workers using Tunis - Le Kram section) unlike the great majority of SNT bus
passengers, the true success of the TGM would be really tested if economic
fares were charged to capture some of the consumer's surplus due to the TGM
higher level of service compared to SNT bus operations. As it operates now,
the TGM is technically successful and offers a good quality of service to some
22 million passengers per year, but it entails a substantial subsidy to upper
income residents of the north-eastern corridor of Greater Tunis, who ride the
TGM along with lower income residents and workers in the same area.
Organizational Improvements
4.34      The major contribution of the project to the SNT organization has
been the use of technical assistance funds to introduce a cost accounting
system, which has permitted detailed analyses of costs in relation to use of
manpower and equipment, in operations and in maintenance; as well as detailed
analyses of the relationship between costs and revenues.  The review of bus
operations which was launched in late 1979, and the subsequent improvement in
bus fleet productivity were, to a large extent, made possible by the above
system.
4.35      The  SNT management  has  further demonstrated a concern for  its
organizational performance through a number of changes that they introduced



- 35 -
between September 1978 and August 1979.   The two most significant changes
introduced were:
(i) the creation of a Directorate specifically responsible for
procurement of spare parts (the principal reason for days lost to
service); and
(ii) the creation of a Budget Division in the Directorate of Finance.
4.36      £he results of the reorganization,  however,  do not appear to be
dramatic.  The new Directorate of Supplies does not appear to have had a
really noticeable effect on the SNT performance with regard to the supply of
parts for vehicle maintenance.  In practice, there are still errors in the
movement of spare- parts, and little improvement in clearing obsolete stocks.
Within the organization, there are still long delays in processing orders.
SNT also suffers from particular purchasing policies, whereby it is under
obligation to purchase Tunisian products whenever possib;'e, some of these
products being of doubtful quality; an example frequently quoted is the
batteries, the life of which -- when produced in Tunisia -- is in the region
of seven months only.
4.37      In addition,  SNT has difficulty  with  supplies  of  foreign spare
parts; to minimize the cost sunk in parts, SNT would wish major manufacturers
to keep an adequate supply of spare parts locally, and at the same time, not
pass on to SNT the cost of maintaining such inventories.   There are also
problems with custom clearance and financing which often introduce several
months delays in obtaining parts.  SNT is therefore faced with the constant
problem of balancing delays in the supply of spare parts and holding of such
spare parts, against the price it has to pay to foreign manufacturers.
4.38      Establishing a Budget Division in the Finance Directorate  should
have helped  improve  financial  control.   Unfortunately,  officers Iaving an
adequate  understanding  of  financial  management  are  still  too  few.    The
preparation of the 1980 Budget involved a two-stage process; first, measures
were identified to reduce costs and increase receipts and to adapt the
investment  program.   Second,  following  the  above exercise,  the investment
program was effectively reduced, and bus services in the off-peak periods were
curtailed, planned recruitment was reduced and economies in the TGM energy
costs were sought.
4.39      The question of manpower productivity--especially in maintenance--
remains among the weakest spots in SNT, casting a dark shadow on SNT requests
to  Government  to  cover  its  deficits.   Formally,  the  Directorate  of
Administration is responsible for addressing such questions, but little effort
appears to have been spent to address them effectively.
The Future of SNT
4.40      The 1970s have seen a substantial restructuring of the SNT's bus
fleet and a complete reconstruction of the TGM, which allowed a major surge in
latent demand for travel by public transport. The major events of the 1980s
will be (i) the emergence of light rail transit (LRT) in Tunis, and (ii) the
proposed splitting up of SNT into three separate companies.



- 36 -
4.41      Light Rail Project.  The Tunisian Government contacted the Bank in
1976 in connection with the LRT idea, seeking both technical and financial
assistance.  In the course of project supervision, the Bank staff had been
made aware of feasibility studies for the LRT and were rather sceptical about
the prospect of another very large investment in urban transport so soon after
that undertaken under the project. Another problem concerned the Government's
commitment under the loan agreement, to consider any new major urban transport
investment in reference to a transport policy framework that the Tunis
District was to develop but took longer than expected. The Bank responded by
advising caution, calling for more studies and suggesting that at best, its
own role in this project could not go to financing foreign exchange needed for
anything but infrastructure, since - in the Bank's opinion - financing
rolling stock could be done through supplier's credits. This exchange was the
Bank last involvement in the LRT project. The Government eventually decided to
proceed on its own; in so doing, a marginal violation of agreements under the
project (para. 2.23) was involved since invitations to tender for the#LRT were
issued in late 1978, shortly before SNT was to be freed of its obligation to
consult the Bank on major investments.
4.42      The LTR will consist of a 30-km double track network stretching from
the city center in three directions (north, south, and west/northwest).   It
will run on a surface, exclusive right-of-way, with intersections at grade.
The total cost is estimated at TD 82 million (in 1981 terms), of which TD 51
million is for construction and purchase of rolling stock, TD 12 million for
price adjustments and contingencies, and the balance for expropriations and
relocation of utilities.   Construction actually started in late 1980, with
completion of the first phase expected in 1984, and the second phase in
1986-88. The rolling stock will cost TD 22 million and will be financed by a
supplier (German-French) credit, while the Government will bear the full cost
of infrastructure.  Execution of the project was given to a special unit in
SNT staffed with a dozen engineers and administrative personnel; the unit will
shortly convert into an engineering consulting group where the SNT will only
be one of six shareholders.
4.43      While the Government has proceeded at considerable speed ti design
and implement LRT plans, many important questions related to bringing this
system into operation and to the impact on other aspects of transport in Tunis
have yet  to be  dealt with.   For example, such questions as LRT mode of
operation, schedules, fares, personnel, recruitment and training, etc. have not
yet been addressed. Furthermore, no work has been done on the impact of the
LRT system on street traffic, during construction and later when in
operation. Since the LRT will occupy a number of streets in an already sparse
downtown arterial network, it will contribute a serious traffic restraint that
will require considerable changes in the traffic circulation and parking
plans.Finally, no work has yet started on restructuring the bus network to
remove duplications, provide bus feeders to LRT lines and arrange for bus/LRT
transfer points. Impact of the LRT on the SNT urban bus operations will go
much beyond the bus route network; it will include the problem of surplus
buses and surplus personnel, all this at a time when SNT is scheduled to be
split into separate organizations.



- 37 -
4.44      Dismantling of SNT.  The September 1981 transport mission learned in
Tunis that the Government had imminent plans to split the SNT into three
separate companies:
(a) a bus company to provide urban transport in Tunis;
(b) a company to operate the TGM and the future LRT system; and
(c) an inter-urban bus company.
4.45      Those plans presumably aim at improving urban transport management,
the  SNT  having  grown  too  large.   The  underlying  reason  appears  to  be
political:  the Government is attempting to break up the power of the 6,000
strong union of SNT employees, which has proved its ability to paralyze
economic life in Tunis as was done in January 1978 and in the six-day strike
in March 1981. SNT may have grown too large and difficult to manage, and
therefore, the division into smaller companies may result in improved
operations, but splitting SNT will call for the creation of an institution to
coordinate the workings of the new companies so that they would operate-- with
respect to routes, fares, transfers, etc.-- as an integrated urban transport
system.   This is especially crucial because of the changes required by the
introduction of the  LRT.  This issue will  loom large in  the  forthcoming
discussions  on  the  urban  transport  sector  between  Bank  staff  and  the
Government.
5. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
5.01      The objective of this project component was to support improvements
in SNT operations by financing a priority program of traffic engineering
measures involving redesign of intersections, traffic signals, and provision
of pedestrian underpasses at some key intersections.  In addition, technical
assistance was to be provided to the Municipality to establish a Traffic
Management Unit with capacity to monitor and analyze traffic flows and adjust
operations  as needed.   In the  course  of project  execution,  a much more
ambitious  program  of  traffic  improvements  was  developed,  featuring  a
sophisticated area traffic control system, which put difficult demands on the
Traffic Management Unit in regards to its ability to maintain and run the
traffic system, and simultaneously initiate and implement further improvements.
Operations
5.02      In physical terms, the project component has been quite successful.
A traffic control system covering a total of 44 intersections, is
operational.   Another  six  intersections  have  been  signalized,  but  these
operate independently of the main system.   Eleven  intersections  have been
reconstructed and channelized.  A new circulation plan has been implemented.
About 5 km. of bus lanes were introduced and there are bus priority signals at
9 intersections.  More than 20 streets were reserved for pedestrians and 3
pedestrians areas were improved. Directional signing on main roads has been



- 38 -
implemented, and general traffic signing has been improved. Since the cost of
the planned three pedestrian underpasses proved excessive, this part of the
project  component  was  dropped.   Instead  special  pedestrian  signals  and
protections were installed at the three locations.
5.03      Overall, the investment has resulted in improved performance of the
traffic system. While the statistics necessary for making with-and-without
comparisons do not exist (para 5.10), there is some indirect evidence of
success.  According to officials interviewed, and some f 'eld observations,
inner city congestion has not worsened since 1975, while automobile
registrations in Tunis have doubled.  Consultants to the Municipality have
estimated that capacity of key downtown intersections has been increased by
20-30% and that, without the improvements executed under the project, the
congestion now experienced between 6:00 and 7:00 p.m. would be prevalent over
a 3-4 h.,ur evening peak; they also claim that vehicular speeds have increased,
but there are no data to support these claims.
5.04      The  area  traffic  control  system  represents  a  very  substantial
improvement in the capability of managing traffic in Tunis.  While earlier
attempts in traffic engineering dealt with individual locations and often
solved a problem by moving it elsewhere, the area traffic control tailored to
react to on-line flow measurements allows systematic and comprehensive
management of traffic flows.  At the moment, the system is under-utilized,
since only two programs are operational, out of the sixteen that the hardware
can handle. Additional programs are being developed by the consultants. The
equipment is now operated by local staff trained on-the-job by the supplier
and the consultants. The maintenance of equipment is something of a weak
spot, however; the supplier has been responsible for the maintenance during
the two years that followed installation.  A contract was signed with the
supplier's local partner, whereby he would be responsible for the next three
years for all maintenance and repairs for major breakdowns. Apparently, there
is some dissatisfaction with the arrangement, since the Municipality is
considering calling for new bids.
5.05      Bus priority measures have not been as effective as expected.  The
main problem is that automobile drivers do not respect the reserved bus lanes,
and enforcement has weakened.  With the exceptior. of a contra-flow bus lane
along Rue Bab Saadoun and Avenue Ali Belhaouane which has yet to be
implemented due to the resistance by merchants, all others are with-flow
reserved bus lanes that are easy to violate.  Furthermore, at intersections
equipped with bus priority signals, lack of enforcement allows automobile
traffic to take illegal advantage of early green lights meant for buses.
5.06      Parking  is another area where progress has been  slim.   Only a
limited fraction of the Municipality's plans to introduce parking meters and
to provide off-street parking have been implemented, and experiments are still
underway to measure parking durations and to test reaction of drivers to
different  parking  fees.   Parking  is essentially free,  but  scarce  in the
downtown area and enforcement is lacking; the result is indiscriminate parking
in many side streets and on sidewalks to the detriment of traffic and
pedestrian flows. The problem is two-fold: on the one hand, the Municipality



- 39 -
has failed to implement a comprehensive parking policy; on the other, the
police is faltering in enforcement. Under the project, the 200-strong traffic
police squad was provided with 10 tow-trucks and 120 vehicle immobilizers to
keep  the main  corridors  free  of  parked  cars.  Five tow-trucks only were
operational, and the police were not trained as necessary; for example, some
vehicles were immobilized by the police in reserved bus lanes instead of being
towed away.
5.07      Overall, it appears that the key to continued and further traffic
improvements in Tunis is in the hands of traffic police. Judging from casual
observation, the compliance of drivers and pedestrians with traffic laws is
very low. The police, apparently, are only concerned with getting the traffic
moving, to the point of waving vehicles through red lights, or standing in
complete indifference to obvious violations--; this is of course threatening
to undo a good deal of the improvement achieved by the area traffic control
system and other physical improvements.
Traffic ManaRement Unit
5.08      The Traffic Management Unit of the Tunis Municipality has been both
the vehicle and the product of traffic improvements described above. The Unit
has been very successful in forming and training a group of local technicians
to operate the traffic control system and in setting up a depot for
maintaining signs, road markings, automatic traffic counters, etc. While the
effectiveness of the traffic control group is dependent of the operation of
the computer hardware maintained under contract (para. 5.04), the depot is
constrained  by a lack of  transport  and  communications  equipment  and  of
maintenance tools.
5.09      The Unit's most serious problem is a lack of senior staff trained in
traffic engineering to manage and plan the work.  Since the departure of an
expatriate traffic engineer in 1980, the most senior person on the Unit has
two years of experience and no formal training in this field; in fact, there
is not a single person in the Unit who is a traffic engineer by training.
Furthermore, most supervisory posts in the organizational structure are not
even filled.
5.10      The experience with a Bank request for traffic statistics has been
indicative of this shortage of trained personnel.   A  list of  performance
indicators (bus travel speeds, intersections delays, travel times, capacities,
accident rates, major flows, etc.) was given to the Unit by a Bank mission in
late 1979.  The results received in May 1980 by the next mission consisted
only of tables with operating characteristics of reserved bus lanes, including
data on bus speeds drawn from an experiment impaired by a faulty design
prepared by SNT.  The project  has  thus  failed "to establish methods  for
systematic observation and analysis of traffic patterns", by not including
funds earmarked for training in traffic engineering.
5.11      The  Municipality  will   soon  have   to  tackle  several  major
traffic-related tasks.  The most critical of these is the large-scale effort
to rehabilitate road surfaces on the city's main streets. The next five-year



- 40 -
plan for traffic improvements is due soon, which should include actions
related to public transport services, pedestrian safety, and traffic
management improvements in low-income residential areas. Last but not least
will be the adaptation to the LRT, first during its construction (with
redistribution of traffic away from the closed streets) and later when the LRT
starts operations with its numerous interferences with street traffic.  For
the Unit to respond to these challenges, a considerable amount of technical
assistance and training will be necessary.
6. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - TUNIS DISTRICT COMPONENT
6.01      The  Tunis  District  was  established  to be  the capital  region's
planning and development control agency, and to introduce integrated
planning/programming/budgeting  at  the zegional level.  With the help of a
technical assistance team, the District was launched with a three-year work
program consistent with the role expected from such an agency.  Initially,
there were delays in building up a competent staff because of the poor salary
scale and because of the novel character of the agency. However, the first
Director General appointed to the District was effective in obtaining special
allowances for his staff and was able to negotiate substantial powers for his
agency. It was then possible to lay down the basis for sounder development
and to begin influencing decision-making in the capital region. In fact, the
second largest cities in the country (Sfax and Sousse) requested that similar
agencies be set up for their urban area, and began consulting the District on
problems and issues affecting their own development.
6.02      The District  carried  out  sector  studies  on  housing,  transport,
public finance and industrial development.  It produced a Regional Structure
Plan; a plan for preserving agricultural land and open spaces, a study on
levels of service and operating costs of public and social facilities, a
housing feasibilty study; a study on development potential of the banks of
Lake Tunis, a prospective land use plan for the Municipality of Tunis, and a
study of solid waste collection and disposal in the region. At the same time,
the District was involved in a great variety of issues from high-rise parking
lots, a circulation plan, major drainage and sewerage works, development of
the eastern edge of the city center, renewal of the Petite Sicile area, and
the location of housing programs and industrial parks.  Never before was any
urban area in Tunisia the object of such systematic and consistent operational
work as regards its overall development.
6.03      To  a  large  extent,  agencies  like  the  District  depend  on  the
personality and effectiveness  of their top management.   When the Director
General was changed, the level of effectiveness of the District fell although
technical work remained of good quality. Nonetheless, the District has had an
unquestionably positive impact as evidenced inter alia by:
(i) the change in national housing policy and the adoption of upgrading
and sites-and-services programs in Five-Year Plans;



- 41 -
(ii) the shelter and solid waste components of the Bank financed Tunisia
Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1705 TTJN), which were
prepared by the District;
(iii) the gradual re-distributing of growth in the capital region, with
more housing programs in the southern areas and more job-creating
investment in the northern and western areas;
( iv) the initiation of programs to assist--financially and technically--
small-scale business; and
(v) the launching of regular national seminars on municipal finance and
management.
6.04      At  the  same  time,  the Tunis District  has  fallen  short  of  the
expectations that had gradually been built up among decision-makers as the
District was making its mark increasingly felt.  In recent years, it has not
maintained the effectiveness of its firat five years of operations, mostly
because of the weakening of its leadership; however, the District also
suffered from a relative momentary loss of momentum in the very ministries
with which it related most, i.e. the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of
Planning.
6.05      In February 1976, a tri-partite review of progress achieved by the
District was carried out by the Government, the UNDP and the Bank, in
consultation with Tunis District officials.  Its conclusions were essentially
positive.   It was  found  that  the District  had  achieved  a fair level of
technical sophistication, and had been responsible for training a number of
professional  staff.   It was also acknowledged that problems of coordination
among other agencies remained pre-dominant and greatly conditioned the level
of efficiency of the District. The Tunis District had achieved a great deal,
both from a policy and project point of view, as described above.
6.06      On  balance,   and  expecially  compared   to  similar  experiments
elsewhere, the Tunis District has proven a success considering the cost and
time allocated to establishing it. However, its leadership has changed again
and there remains a question mark over whether the Tunis District will be able
to continue being an effective tool for regional management.
7. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - SFAX COMPONENT
7.01      The project component in Sfax was executed satisfactorily.  Studies
were carried out according to plans and produced the types of results
expected.  At the request of local authorities, the scope of these studies
were broadened to include the design of a Master Plan for Greater Sfax for
which the Government provided supplementary financing. This development did
not hamper the implementation of the original studies; on the contrary, it
provided them with a proper framework, allowed issues to be better ider.tified
and perceived, and permitted solution to be more readily adopted.



- 42 -
7.02      Eventually, studies on Sfax carried out under the project resulted
in important sites and services and upgrading components in the Bank financed
Tunisia Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1705 TUN).
8. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE - CONSULTANTS AND SUPPLIERS
8.01      Under  the  project,  all  suppliers  were  contracted  by  executing
agencies; so were most consultants with the exception of the consultant to the
Tunis District whose services were financed in part under a UNDP project for
which the Bank was executing agency.
8.02      As regards the latter consultants, the Bank was responsible for the
whole selection and negotiation process.  Eventually, a multi-national group
was selected which overall gave satisfaction.   However,  the experience has
shown clearly the inherent difficulties in appointing non-native speakers to
work closely with local counterparts. A number of such professionals on the
team were far less effective and integrated than would have been desirable; as
a result, turnover was substantial, irritation on the part of Tunisiaa
officials and professionals followed, and contract partial re-negotiations
became necessary.
8.03      As regards other consultants and suppliers, the Bank was consulted
on  all  selections  and  was  satisfied  with  the  decisions  recommended  by
executing  agencies.   No  special  dissatisfaction  was  voiced  by  these.
Occasionally, Bank missions were asked to comment on particular performances;
in most cases, Bank comments were taken into account by executing agencies who
dealt directly with consultants or suppliers to obtain the improvements sought.
9. EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE
9.01      Consultations with Bank counterparts on this project have revealed
that the Bank assistance was highly valued on a number of subjects, but also
perceived  as  falling  short  of expectations  on a number of others.   Bank
assistance was particularly appreciaced on a variety of questions ranging from
questions that usually call for top Government decisions, down to detailed,
technical ones. Apparently, Bank support was found decisive on questions such
as (i) making the Tunis District a reality, (ii) obtaining from the Government
for the benefit of SNT, financial compensation for preferential/social tariffs
and  agreement  to  tariff  increases,   (iii)  helping  in  the  search  of
complementary financing for SNT, and (iv) arguing in favor of substantial
housing policy changes. Similarly, Bank regular supervision was found most
helpful in maintaining exchanges of views, identifying feasible solutions, and
in general terms, broadening the scope of concern, diversifying frameworks of
reference and deepening mutual understanding.
9.02      The Bank, however, was criticized for not maintaining a sufficient
continuity in its supervisory staff, not allowing more frequent and greater
in-depth collaboration, and not favoring steadier involvement of Bank staff in



- 43 -
collaborative  work  with  and  among  local  agencies.   Besides  the  common
sensitivity  to  Bank  procedures  and  control--  frequently  perceived  as
nit-picking and lack of confidence--, Bank counterparts had also the feeling
that, beyond the critical starting plan, the Bank soon re-allocated its
resources to new up-coming business to the detriment of what had been started,
while keeping up its demands and/or expectations vis-a-vis the Borrower as in
the earlier phase.  Finally,  the Bank was perceived as little inclined to
diversify its range of interventions -- occasionally, in some new areas--
because of the possible difficulty in developing an acceptable economic
justification, or because of pre-determined sectoral allocations, or else
because of the longer time horizon involved in recognizing the benefits
expected from the project envisaged.
10. CONCLUSION
10.01     Performance  under  the  Tunis  District  Urban Planning and  Public
Transport Project shows substantially different levels of achievement from one
project component to the next, as well as within the same component from one
sub-element  to the next.   In fact, one could easily refer  to achievement
beyond the expected in some places and to under-achievement in others. If any
one pattern could be somewhat clearly identified, it could be that, on narrow
indicators the performance was less, while on more abstract or fundamental
criteria the performance was substantially better than expected--although of
uneven significance for the long term--.
10.02     The Tunis District was not fully successful in becoming the capital
region's all powerful planning agency; but it was decisively influential on
policies and programs related to such essential sectors as low income 1-ousing,
small scale enterprises, solid waste management and spatial pattern of
development of Greater Tunis.  It was hoped that SNT, the public transport
company, would be able to reach--in its traffic, maintenance, administrative
and financial operations, a level of efficiency close to that of comparable
European  companies;  but  SNT operates   with  a  labor force and within  an
economic/political environment that preclude certain levels of consistency and
commitment.   Nonetheless,  SNT  was  able  to  expand  its  patronage  beyond
expectations, to meet targets as concerns the level and reliability of
service, and to improve substantially the quality of its cost control.  The
Government did not compensate SNT for social tariffs as consistently and fully
as expected; however, SNT was able to obtain the Government's endorsement for
building a Light Rail Transit (LRT) system--which constitutes a remarkable
decision in favor of public transport and to restrain the use of the private
car-, and a commitment to take up major investment costs related to the LRT.
10.03     The Municipality of Tunis could have been more efficient in helping
public transport--especially as regards the operation of reserved bus lanes-,
and in monitoring the effect of its traffic improvement programs.  But the
Municipality eventually launched a program significantly larger than planned-
five times more intersections were redesigned and equipped, and ten times more
streets were closed to traffic and turned to pedestrian exclusive use-; and
that expansion was highly beneficial, even if at the cost of lesser monitoring
and less refined management.



- 44 -
10.04     The Tunis District component has also demonstrated that (i) delicate
policy issues, eg. housing, could be addressed and resolved even through
hardly established institutions, eg. the Tunis District; (ii) new concerns,
eg. solid waste, could be raised and dealt with; and (iii) streams of projects
related  to  these  issues and  concerned could be  initiated.   However,  the
project has also shown that this could be achieved inasmuch as the Bank was
able to maintain sufficient continuity, demonstrate understanding of local
conditions and be as much of a partner in new endeavors as can be reasonably
expected.



TMISIA - 1U11S DLSIRICr URBFAN PLUtNl
AN) 11UL.1. IW'bKMA ki4J.JrL
(UmN t/utlull 43t-1ulq)
Table 1: FRECASE AND) ACIUAL (DSWS!
APRAIASAL FUWAASr. 2/    _ ICI L (UATS                                                 Cost
Prject Part                       WUWIAPJJ               ,wt.UJ  it                 Ev.ui$C) 4t_                              Dif_fe_ _tia_
LoCAi  ?orei      tat    wcai to            I-m T    tal oal   tW o eC loaig  IO Tucat   otal orign  lotal tb
PUBL1C TPAINlORr (S)         3,343.0  7,525.0  10,868.0  7,611.0  17,232.0 24,843.0   n.a.    n.a. 19,286.4    n.a.    n.s. 45,919.9  .77    485
A. 210 bsema ad spare parts   2,415.0  2,505.3  4,923.3 5,483.4  5,693.4 11,176.8 1,427.2 3,35D.4 4,837.6  3,398.1 8,048.6 11,446.7  -2     42
B. aIm nuintenanre depot      658.6    912.8  1,571.4 1,513.1  2,097.7 3,610.8  1,523.0  2,100.0  3,623.0 5/ n.a.    n.a.  8,619.0 5/ 41a:  4139
C. Reliabilitation of I1
suburban railway service    162.2  3.891.9  4,054.1   368.8  8,946.9 9,315.7   n.a.   n.s.  10,550.2    n.a.    n.s. 25,071.9 +1(0   416'I
D. Tedinical an mimagerial
assistamce                107.2    215.0    322.2   245.7    494.0   739.7   n.a.   na..      328.6    n.a.    n.a.    782.3   +2      46
IWFIC lXW00fEf
(DilIcipaMLty ot nmnis)      435,0      331.0    766.0  1,000.0    762.0  1,762.0  2,063.7   177.5 2,241.2  4,913.6   422.6 5,336.2 4193   42D3
E, Tecdnical assistamne in
traffic e,iaweri's         3D.7     51.8     82.5    73.7    116.7   19D.4   240.3    47.9   288.2       72.2   114.0   686.2 4249   +280
F, Traffic light a md civil
works at intersections    404.3    279.2    683.5   926.3    645.3  1,571.6  1,8Z3.4   129.6 1,953.0  4,3I1.4   3D8.6 4,650.0  4186   *19l
lllTS DISCT(,'                 151.0    586.0    737.0   348.0  1,347.0  1,695.0   n.m.    n.o.    728.9    371.0  1,324.0  1,695.0   -I    0
Go Technical ashistamze for
plamudT ard program       151.0    586.0    737.0   348.0  1,347.0  1,695.0   n.a.    no.n    728.9    371.0  1,324.0  1,695.0
SFAX UM   UD                   56.0     83.0    139.0   13D.0    189.0   319.0   n.a.    n.a.    199.1    133.2   340.8   474.0  443    449
IHe Tedhnical assistame         56.0     83.0    139.0   13D.0    189.0   319.0   n.a.    n.s.    199.1    133.2   340.8   474.0
RUAL               3,985.0  8,525.0  12,510.0 9,089.0  19,53D.0 28,619.0   n.a.    n.a. 22,455.6    n.a.    n.a. v.425.1  48D    487
Notecs 1/ As of Jun 30  1981
Z/ rclu"liz conahz  rcie a
E/ Exchutle rates I   D o0.44                                                                                                         z
/Exdum-e.ratea!JS   ID 0.42
/ Estited amxmt.                                                                                                                      m
0



lUIISLA - UllNS DlSflCr ULSM RAIEN
Table la: F?IIAL FRUW
- FoaW:asts and Atuals)
wDVIRM        PAr WICIMTII3             NM-M -F1IWJC1                              OflU FINACDC
~~~~~a     IWIINO                   WKM  INI;oL                                        IKN
Pn>je:t Par           AppralOaL Dr.3aSt  ACLUaL rartiZipatlaZ  Wpral$31 Fo  ca3t  AcEuat PartIcIPtME  - i9ralsal towcaSE   CS  aiit
-I%V\UA      tUDOUW  iiMw)I  LCO%VWI/ LU%%uA)  \ub    J  ~IIUUJU)JI %W%UU)  LIUW)  UVZOW I J    :X"xU
PUBLC TM?RIG (WT)            937.0    2,154.0   7,171.8   17,075.5  7,22D.4  16,552.0   6,951.8   16,552.0  2,M5.0 5/ 6,137.0  5,162.8 6/ 12,292.4
A. 210 ise  ad Bpat parts                        1,652.3    3,934.0  2,149.3   4,927.0   2,363.3    5,627.0                     792.0    1,885.7 8/
B, 1 s nuintenarme depot                         3,231.8 7/ 7,694.6 4,854.3  1            388.2      924.4
C. Redabilitation of ai                          2,085.1    4,964.5                     4,074.3    9,00.7                     4.31.8   10,06.7
). Tedinical assistame                             M2.6      482.4   216.8      497.0     126.0      299.0                              1
1tR.C RM Imt                435.0    1,000.0   2,063.7    4,913.6   332.4      762.0     177.5      422.6
%runicipallmy 01 1U)                                                                                                                             |
E. Tedchical assistance                                                49.7     114.0      47.9      114.0
r, Traffic lights & civil ;wt*                                        214.7    (b8.U      129.6  3u a6
TlMS DS11tCT                 151.0      348.0      276.9      659.2   21b.8     497.0      78o       185.8   374.0      89D.0 9/ 357.0 10/  83D.0 9/
G. Technical assiatamve
FAX UHMN SInU                 56.0      13U.0                          82A.4    189.0     199.1      474.0
It. Tedhnical assistaze
IUrAL             1,579.0    3,632.0   9,512.4   22,648.3  7,852.0  18,WU.0   7,406.7   17,634.4 3,079.0   6,987.0  5,519.8   13,142.4
Notes: 1/ Obtained ftxc previous column usi'l awrage exdiae rate US$ I ID 0.42
- / Loluwing cnti,egLies
71 Obtained firam ucceedirg column uirg avrae ehwye rate Us$ - N) 0.42
1 As of Jure 3D, 1981
T/ unisin BaDnt a participation
A1 Fbu Ihabi Furid
7/ Estimate as of May 1. 1981
8/ Saw as 1/                                                                                                                           .
W UNUP cantributim                                                                                                                  ti _
ID Same as 3/                                                                                                                       0



TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
A.YD PUB.. IC TRAUSPW;%T P&%GJ:CT
Traffic tlproveent Component
(Details of Revisions)
Item                       Appraisal              SITeC (1977)                Actual
Number      Cost        Number       Cost       Number       Coet
of Item     TD'O0O      of Items    TDOOO       of items    TD'000
intersection Improvemnts           6          66.51        14         175.0        11          520.0
Traffic Signals                    IS         67.5         15          160.0       44w6      1,260.0
Pedeatrian Underlianses             5        465.0          3          187.0        -            -
Direction SIgns                     -           -           -            6.0                     6.0
Asia Lanes                         -            -           -           23.7   (marginal)      ,c.
Pedestrian Streets                  -           -           6           78.9       22          165.0
Ceneral Signs                       -           -                        6.0   (marginal)       n.Z.
Teelnical Assistance                -         75.0          -            -           -         288.2
Suilbtotal                                   696.0                     658.6                 2,241.2
Contingencies                                 70 (102)                  98.6 (152)               -
YOTAL                                        766.0                     757.4                 2,241.2
I/ Typing error li Appraisal Report corrected
2/ forty four Intersections Included in the ares traffic control system, pIns six
Independent signalized intersections.



-48 -                                   ANNEX 3
TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 937/Credit 432-TUN)
chedule of Uluburmnents
DSSOO0  a.l1ma)
ZIRD Fiscal Year        3tsburseue:s Durtnt OuQartes        Cimulative Disbursemeits
and Quarter           Appra±sa.         Actual 11        Appraisal       Actual
297J-1974
Dec. 31. 1973             0.1                                0.1
March 31. 1974            0.7                                0.8             -
J.   30. 1974             2.3              -                 3.1             -
197&-197S
Sept. 30. 1974            2.8              _.9                               _
Vea. 31. 1974             1.9              1.1               7.3            1.1
*arch 31. 1975            2.2              0.9              10.0            2.0
June 30. 1975             3.0              2.1              13.0            4.0
1975-1976
Sept. 30. 1975            2.4              3.4              15.4            7.4
Dec. 3. 1975              1.0              2.6              15.6           10.0
March 31. 1976            0.1              0.4              17.2           10.4
Jma 30. 1976              0.5              0.2              13.0           LO.6
1975-19 7
Sept. 30. 1976             -              0.1                -             10.8
Dec.. 31. 1976             -              1.2                -             11.9
Mwrch 31. 1977             -               0.3               -             12.2
Ja 30. 1977                -                .5               -             12.7
1977-1978
Sept. 30.1977              -               1.3               -             14.0
Dec. .31. 1977             -               1.6               -             15.7
March 31. 1978             -               0.2               -             15.9
Jma 30. 1978               -               -                 -             15.9
1976-1979
Sept. 30. 1978             -               -                 -             15.9
Dec. 31 1978                               0.3               -             16.1
Harch 31. 1979             -               -                 -             16.2
Jima 30. 2979                              -                 -             16.2
1979-1980
Sept. 30. 1979             -               -                 -             i6.2
sec. 31. 1979              -               0.3               -             16.5
March 31. 1950             -               -                 -             16.5
.m  30. 10                                 -                 - -           16.5
190-1981
Sept. 30. 1980                            -                                16.5
Dec. 31. 1980                             0.1                              16.6
March 31. 1911                            -                                16.6
Jima 30. 191            L--I                                              17.6
1981-1982
Sept. 30. 1981                                                             17.6
11 ComUttLve aim of this colm slightly differeat from actual culative diaburueents
due to toulidnl,g.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA - TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING
AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 937/CREDIT 432-TUIN)
Summary of Compliance with
Loan and Project Agreements
for Traffic Improvements and SNT Components of the Project
Agreement/Covenant                       Compliance
A. Loan Agreement
1.   Tunis Municipality,
to employ traffic engineering consultant              Yes
2.   Government,
To agree on and implement
Wi)  a program of traffic improvements on          Yes
the basis of traffic consultants'
work.
(ii)  twenty months after Effective Date,           No
to adopt and implement measures on
the basis of special policy studies
by Tunis District.
giii)  not to undertake any new arterial             No
highway improvements without consult-
ation with Bank in the light of Tunis
District policy work.
(iv)  to establish a high-level Technical           Yes
Coordinating Committee to help Tunis
District.
(v)  to compensate SNT for concessionary           Yes
tariffs in each fiscal year.
(vi)  to allow SNT to raise tariffs                 Yes; in large part
and, if necessary, provide                    (para 4.17)
additional grants to make up the
difference between SNT's operating
revenue and operating expenses plus
debt service in excess of depreciation.
(vii)  payments under 2(vi) above to be              No
quarterly, calculated on the basis of         (para 4.17)
performance targets (see No. 3(viii)
below) and cash needs of SNT.



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Agreement/Covenant                      Compliance
B.  SNT Project Agreement
3.   SNT
(i)  to employ engineering consulcants            Yes
to help with specifications, bidding
documents and bid evaluation.
(ii)  to keep its staffing under continuous        Yes; within the
review, hiring new staff only if             limitation of socio/
managerial efficiency or the project         political pressures
warrants it.
(iii)  to employ management consultants and         Yes
bus operations/maintenance consultants
(iv)  to employ railway consultants                Yes
(v)  not to undertake any major new project       Yes; to a large
until end 1978 without consultation          extent. (However,
with Bank (except for 110 buses              studies on mass
between 1976-78)                             transit were
started)
(vi)  to submit by late 1975, technical/           No
economic justification for 1976-80
urban operations investment program.
(vii)  should authorize by end 1973 its             Yes
Directeur-General to sign contracts
up to TD 100,000 without approval of
SNT Board of Directors.
(viii)  by April 30, 1974, to submit a system        No; Government was
of operating and financial                   reluctant because
performance targets.                         of link with obli-
gation to compensate
SNT for low tariffs
(ix)  to report every six months on results        No; see above
relative to above targets plus annual
review with Bank and Tunis District.
(x)  accounts to be audited annually by           For two years,
independent auditors and results            yes; then not
submitted to Bank no later than              regularly and
six months after end of each year.           eventually no
more



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Agreement/Covenant                     Compliance
(xi)  to employ consultant in management         Yes
and cost accounting.
(xii)  to increase urban operations tariffs       Yes
by at least 15% by June 30, 1975.
(xiii)  to insure that its operating income        No; since Government
covers operating expenses plus debt        did not authorize
service in excess of depreciation for    all tariff increases
all three services until end 197,'+;       that would have been
thereafter, SNT urban and inter-urban    necessary
operations to fulfill same condition,
but separately.
(xix)  to consult with Bank on any debt for       No
inter-urban operations exceeding
TD 250,000.



