FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOR4ENT ASSOCIATION
Net For Pubc Ueu
RePAPt No. 157a-TUN
TDUISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
July 25, 1973
Urban Projects Department
This report was prep.red for off"iil mse only by tdm Bank Gmup. It mnay nlot be publled, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authoitation. The Bank Croup doun ot accpt responslbillty for the
accuracy or coplemteJas of the report.



Currency Equivalents
National currency is the Dinar (D)
divided in 1,000 Millimes (M)
US$ 1.00          *       D 0.4h
US$ 2.272   :             D 1.0
US¢ 0.23          =       M 1.0
US$ 1 million             D 440,000
Weights and Measures
I Metric ton      =       2.205 lbs
1 Kilogram (kg)           2.2 lbs
1 Xilometer (km)  =       0.62 miles
1 Meter (m)       =       3.28 feet
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Acronyms
SNT       -     Societe Nationale des Transports
SNCFT     -     Societe Nationale des Chemis de Fer Tunisiens
TGM       -     Tunis - La Goulette - La Marsa Railway
STIA      -     Societe Tunisienne d' Industrie Automobile
SNI       -     Societe Nationale d' Investissement
CIF       -     Cost, Insurance and Freight



TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                 1
II.   BACKGROUND                                                  3
A. The Economy                                         3
B.  Tunis Metropolitan Area                            3
C.  The Center City and the Medina                     4
D.  Urban Growth Pattern                               4
E.  The Inatitutional Framework -
Metropolitan Tunis District                     5
III.   THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                        7
A. Vehicles, Roada and Traffic                         7
B. Public Transport                                    8
IV.  TRANSPORT POLICY AND URBAN PLANNING ISSUES                  il
A. Towards a Transport Policy for Tunis               il
B. The Urbau Focus of the Project                     12
C. Urban Planning and Investments                     12
V.   THE PROJECT                                                14
A.  Main Features                                     14
B.  Cost Estimates                                    16
C.  Project Financing Plan                            18
D. Project Execution - The Institutional
Arrangements                                    19
E.  Procurement                                       19
F.  Diabursement                                      21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank/IDA appraisal mission
which visited Tunis from January 15 - February 7, 1973, and comprised Mr. N.
Carrere (Urban Projects), Ma. I. Bradfield (Consultant), Messrs. R. Postgate,
P. Ongley, G. Hafter (Consultants - London Transport), A. latz (Consultant -
British Rail), M. Thraya (Consultant - SOTUETEC). Messrs. R. Venkateswaran
(Urban Projects), and A. E. Elmendorf (EMENA - Programs Il) also participated
in the mission. Mr. Boutros-Ghali (UNDP) visited Tunis concurrently to pre-
pare the draft UNDP project document. Me. C. Tager (Urban Projects) assisted
in the final preparation of the report. A subsequent mission from June 19-29,
1973, comprising Messrs. Venkateswaran, Elmendorf and D. Rowe (Consultant)
reviewed the procurement arrangements.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   THE SNT PUBLIC TRANSPORT COMPONENT                          22
A.   The Executing Institution SNT                     22
B.   Financial Aspects                                 23
C.   Economic Analysis                                30
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM MENDATIONS                     32
ANNEXES
1    Population (Table)
2    The Metropolitan Tunis District
3    Public Transport in Tunis
4    Traffic Analysis and Forecasts
5    Estimated Needs of Rolling Stock
6    Analysis of TGM Modernization Program
7    Traffic Improvements
8    Sfax Urban Study
9    Detail Cost Estimate
10    Outline Terms of Reference - SNT Consultants
il    Outline Terms of Reference - Traffic Consultant
12 Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile (STIA)
13 Disbursement
14 Financial Aspects of SNT - Results, Projections,
Assumptions
15 SNT Tariff Structure
16 Economic Analysis
CHARTS
7662(R)   Project Implementation Schedule
7659      Organization of SNT
M4APS
10419     Tunisia - General
10420     Tunis - Metropolitan Area - By Major Zones
10421     Tunis - Main Infrastructure
10422     Tunis - Bus Network
10423     Tunis - TGM Line
10424     Tunis - Traffic Improvement Program



TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC
TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Forces of urbanization are creating extreme pressures on the urban
facilities in Tunis. Without corrective action the accelerated urban growth
coupled with deteriorating public transport services vill aggravate urban
sprawl in the next decade. Urban development policy planning is needed to
avoid unnecessary urban investments in light of the scarce resources available.
il.       Recognizing the need for prompt action, the Government has created
an agency for urban policy planning and development and is taking steps to
assure its effective functioning. To this end, the Government seeks Bank and
UNDP aid in strengthening the District's planning, programming and supervision
capability, as well as assistance in rehabilitating the public transport system.
iii.      The transport part of the project consists of:  the purchase of new
equipment to renew and expand the bus and rail facilities operated by the
Societe Nationale des Transports (SNT); the construction of a bus maintenance
depot; technical assistance to improve SNT's managerial and operating effi-
ciency; and a supporting program of traffic engineering and control. Addi-
tionally, to begin to focus growth outside of Tunis, the project will finance
consultant services for an urban development study of Sfax, the second largest
city in Tunisia, which is experiencing rapid growth.
iv.       The project is estimated to cost US$28.6 million equivalent includ-
ing contingencies for which a Bank loan of US$11 million and an IDA credit of
US$7 million are recommended. The foreign exchange cost amounts to 68% of
total project cost. Of the overall amount, US$10.8 million will be used for
the purchase of up to 210 buses, US$9.5 million for the modernization of the
TGM railway and purchase of 26 electric rail cars, US$3.8 million for a bus
maintenance depot, US$1.8 million for traffic engineering, and the remainder
of US$2.7 million for technical assistance to SNT, the work program of the
Tunis District, and for the Sfax study. The UNDP will contribute US$850,000
towards the cost of the Tunis District program.
v.        The Borrower would be the Government of Tunisia.  The major portion
of the Bank loan and IDA credit would be relent to SNT for the public trans-
port improvement program. The Municipality of Tunis, aided by a foreign traf-
fic and transport consultant, will execute traffic engineering and controI
measures. The Tunis District with consultant assistance will execute the
urban planning and programming studies.
vi.       Rapid urbanization in Tunis itself demands that action be taken to
formulate a long-term growth strategy. Population has more than doubled from
400,000 in 1956 to 900,000 in 1972. By 1980 the population is expected to
reach 1.5 million, an increase that can be adequately accommodated within the
metropolitan area only if supported by multisectoral development policies.
Crowding in the Medina or city center has resulted in uncontrolled outward



- ii -
expansion, with an industrial area to the south, squatter settlements on the
western periphery, and residential areas for the higher income families in
the northern suburbs. In the absence of an adequate planning framework,
urban infrastructure investments have contributed to an excessive separation
of home and work places. Costly infrastructure has been constructed in cer-
tain sections of the city while other areas have been inadequately serviced.
The faults of these investments are currently reinforced by inadequate public
transport services and the absence of effective restraints on private auto-
mobile use.
vii.      To date, the net effect of disorderly development has been to in-
crease home-work trips and traffic across the congested central core despite
t:ie fact that private ownership of automobiles is confined to only 5% of the
families. Because taxis are relatively expensive, lower income groups are
forced to rely on public bus and rail services. The increased demand for
urban mobility is reflected in the 6-7% annual growth of public transport
patronage in recent years. However, public transport passengers are bur-
dened by steadily deteriorating services characterized by frequent break-
downs, delays and severe overcrowding.
viii.     Nlost of the present suburban rail equipment for the northeast cor-
ridor, running on a network built in 1902, is 60 years old and is expected
to last no more than five years. The bus system is also outmoded and poorly
maintained. The Bank's analysis of traffic demand indicates that if current
trends continue without immediate corrective measures, there will begin a
relative decline in public transport ridership by 1976, accompanied by an
increase in car ownership from the present 5% to perhaps 20% of the popula-
tion before the end of the decade, with serious economic and social cost to
the entire community.  At the same time, the lowest income groups may not be
able to afford the anticipated higher public transport costs.
ix.       Continued decline in the quality of public transport services is
only one part of the overall urban problem. The city stiîll has the time to
plan and design its land use to accommodate efficiently the expected grawth,
without heavy social costs. The prolect is designed to establish the frame-
work for a rational approach to urban growth. The short-term impact of re-
habilitating the public transport system will make it possible for the Gov-
ernment to initiate orderly land use development and introduce disincentives
to private automobile use. The Government already imposes high purchase taxes
and restrictive import quotas on automobiles and will consider other restraint
measures such as parking bans in congested areas.
x.        The economic evaluation of the project indicates satisfactory rates
of return, ranging up to 30% for replacement and expansion of the bus fleet
and construction of new maintenance facilities, and 16% for modernization of
rail services. The major quantifiable economic benefits arise from the re-
duced costs of SNT's bus and rail operations. The modernization of the TGM
railway under electric power is justified as the least cost method of provid-
ing public transport service in the area presently serviced. The benefits
of reduced operating costs and the foregone costs due to avoidance of other
less desirable alternatives contribute to the satisfactory rate of return.



- lii -
The impact of long-range urban development planning, the major justification
of the project, cannot be quantified in economic benefits.  This planning
should make it possible to determine the need for or avoidance of those in-
vestments to guarantee adequate transport and mobility for the majority of
the population.
xi.       The project is economically sound and thus provides a suitable
basis for the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit.






TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC
TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tunisia has requested Bank/IDA assistance in
financing an urban project for Tunis designed to:
(i)  strengthen the technical capabilities of the Tunis District,
to plan, program, and supervise public investments and
establish suitable urban policies for metropolitan Tunis; and
(ii) improve public transport services by purchasing new equipment,
by increasing the efficiency of public transport management,
and rationalizing traffic movement.
The District provides the institutional framework for the urban policy and
planning aspects of the project. The immediate improvements in public trans-
port facilities would be carried out by the Societe Nationale des Transports
(SNT). The District's staff would prepare a comprehensive urban development
strategy, encompassing a review of current urban land use, which would assist
in conducting a series of special policy and feasibility studies leading to
additional urban projecta.
1.02      In the Tunis area, the Bank Group has already financed industrial
development through the Tunisian development finance company, the Societe
Nationale d'Investissement (SNI), port facility expansion at La Goulette,
national highway access routes to the city, water supply, and tourism infra-
structure. An urban sewerage project is in preparation. In its metropolitan
approach, the project would set a new direction in Bank Group lending oper-
ations contrasted with the sectoral orientation of past investments.
1.03      The proposed project is an outgrowth of previous Government invest-
ments in the transport sector. The suburban rail system serving South Tunis
is part of the national railway network run by Societe Nationale des Chemins
de Fer Tunisien (SNCFT) which modernized its rolling stock under a Rank
loan and IDA credit in 1969. This project financed a study, undertaken by
the French consulting firm SOFRERAIL, to lay the groundwork for the SNCFT
modernization progra'm and to modernize the Tunis-La Goulette - La Marsa (TGM)
suburban railway operated by SNT. The present Government request for Bank/IDA
assistance to rehabilitate the TGM line and SNT bus fleet is based on the
SOFRERAIL study and a 1972 report on SNT's bus needs prepared by BCEOM.
1.04      The proposed project is estimated to cost about D 12.5 million
(US$28.6 million equivalent) for which Bank financing of US$11 million and
IDA financing of US$7 million are recommended.



-2-
1.05      The project was first discussed vith the Tunisian authorities in
early 1972. Preparation and preappraisal missions were undertaken in July,
October and December 1972, and the project was appraised in January 1973.
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission composed of
Mr. N. Carrere (Urban Projects), Ms. I. Bradfield (Consultant), and Messrs.
R. Postgate, P. Ongley, G. Hafter (all Consultants, London Transport Execu-
tive), A. Hatz (Transmark-British Rail), and Mr. Thraya (SOTUETEC). Mr. R.
Venkateswaran (Division Chief, Urban Projects) and Mr. A.E. Elmendorf, (EMENA,
Programs II) participated in the mission and contributed sections of the re-
port. Mr. M. Boutros-Ghali of the UNDP undertook a parallel mission to pre-
pare the draft UNDP project document for assistance to the Tunis district.
Ms. C. Tager (Urban Projects) also contributed to the final preparation of
the report. A subsequent mission in June 1973, comprising Messrs. Venkateswaran,
Elmendorf and Rowe (Consultant) reviewed the proposed procurement arrangements.



-3-
II.  BACKGROUND
A.  The Economy
2.01      Tunisia's economy grew at a relatively moderate rate of 5% a year
during the past decade. In preparing its Fourth Plan for 1973-76, the Gov-
errment reexamined past development policies.  The Plan reaffirms the recently
adopted economic policy of liberalization and aims at reducing the high level
of rural and urban unemployment through emphasis on job creation in agricul-
ture, export-oriented industry and tourism. To this end, the Government is
beginning to relax administrative controls and strengthen support to produc-
tive activities in the private sector. Despite the emphasis on rural devel-
opment, however, Tunisia's options are limited by the physical constraints
of land abutting the Sahara. About 43Z of the total population and 70% of
the urban population live vithin 10 km of the coast, where natural conditions
favor continued growth.
2.02      In 1972, GDP at constant factor co0t rose by about 18%, compared
with a 9% average in 1971. This accelerated growth was due, to a large ex-
tent, to increased agricultural production aided by favorable weather condi-
tions, higher tourism receipts, workers' remittances and oil revenues. Aided
by the adoption of simplified import procedures for raw materials and spare
parts, growth also induced a high level of public and private investment, as
reflected in increased construction activities and concentrated industrial
expansion.
B.  Tunis Metropolitan Area
2.03      Tunis, the capital of Tunisia, is the country's largest and most
important urban area -- the focus of Government and economic activity and
a major tourist center (Hap 10419). With a population of 400,000 in 1956,
the year of independence, Tunis has grown rather rapidly increasing to
900,000 in 1972.
2.04      The metropolitan Tunis population (see Annex 1) comprises 14% of
the national total of 5.4 million and accounts for 35Z of the total urban
population in municipal areas of 50,000 or more. Growing at 5% annually,
Tunis has been projected to reach 1.5 million by 1980. The Municipality of
T,unis, with some 558,000 inhabitants, is the largest of the 13 communes 1/
in the metropolitan area.
1/   Ariana, Ben Arous, Carthage, Ez-Zahra, Hamman-Lif, La Goulette, La
Marsa, Le Bardo, Megrine, Manouba, Rades, Sidi Bou Said, and Tunis.



-4-
2.05      In 1971, per capita income in Tunis was estimated at US$450 equiv-
aient, almost double the national average of US$255, and four times the level
prevailing in rural areas. Metropolitan Tunis accounts for more than half
the nation's total commerce and trade, construction, administration, and
other white collar jobs. Moreover, Tunis contains Tunisia's major banking
activities as well as its only university. These factors, combined with the
expectation of higher incomes each year, draw a large number of immigrants
aspiring to better employment opportunities and living conditions. The in-
migration annually adds half of the overall growth in population or roughly
35,000 a year. This growth has already contributed .o housing and water
shortages, inadequate public transport services and rising unemployment. In
1971 the number of unemployed persons was officially listed as 13.8% of the
labor force. The small size of the labor force 1/ vould appear to indicate
a much higher figure.
2.06      The full thrust of urbanization has not yet overtaken Tunis.  Only
13% of the gross area of the Tunis District is truly urbanized. The grid
street pattern of the modern city cons.tructed in the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries to the east of the older sections is adequate and now only has to
accommodate the more than 45,000 vehicles currently in use. However, while
automobile ownership is still small, it is expected to grow rapidly unless a
faster and more efficient public transport alternative is soon made available.
C. The Center City and the Medina
2.07      The central core of Tunis consists of a restricted land area be-
tween two bodies of water, the Lake of Tunis to the east and Sebkha de
Sedjoumi to the west (Map 10420). At the center is the Medina, the ancient
walled city of historical Tunis. The Medina has an extremely high density
of 50,000 per km2 (comparable to the central city densities of Bombay and
Calcutta), with compact and overcrowded residences bordering a maze of wind-
ing streets and alleyways permitting pedestrian traffic only. The souks
(shops) in the Medina, while serving as a main tourist attraction, also sup-
ply 50% of all goods consumed in Tunis and its suburbs. Most government of-
fices are located in or near this area, as are the principal commercial and
financial activities. In all, it is estimated that 70% of all jobs are lo-
cated in the city center, in and around the Medina.
D. Urban Growth Pattern
2.08      Overcrowding in the city center and the lack of available land
nearby have precipitated a sprawling expansion, stratifying income groups
and dispersing employnent opportunities.
1/   In 1971 the active labor force numbered 237,100 or 26.6% of total pop-
ulation. The low labor force participation rate is primarily explained
by the nearly 51% of the population aged 20 and below.



-5-
2.09      The poorer inhabitants, accounting for one-third of the total met-
ropolitan population, reside mainly in squatter settlements in the south
coastal and western sections of Tunis. Low-income residents are also clus-
tered near the port of La Goulette in the coastal zone to the east and north-
east of the center, while middle- and high-income dwellers reside in areas
to the north and northeast of the central business district. To the east
and northeast, development has been mixed, from the port area of La Goulette,
past the archeological sites of Carthage and Anibal, and proceeding north to
newly emerging tourist development areas. About 50% of all new industrial
establishments in the Tunis area are located south of the central core, be-
cause of better transport connections with the rest of the country. South-
ward, especially along the GP-1, the major national highway to and from Tunis,
is the industrial area, composed chiefly of chemical, textile, timber and
small industries and major warehousing facilities.
2.10      The beginnings of urban sprawl have already caused substantial in-
creases in the number and length of work trips and have generated greater
through traffic across the congested central part of the city. Inadequate
public transport services have added to the difficulty by forcing travellers
from the suburbs to change buses one or more times if they must cross the
center city.
E. The Metropolitan Tunis District
2.11      The tendency towards dispersal of residential development and em-
ployment zones created by the city's location has been strengthened by the
inadequacy of the planning and institutional framework for dealing with the
area's problems. Ministries and decision-making are highly centralized on
a sectoral basis, and inter-ministerial coordination on investments affecting
the growth and development of metropolitan Tunis is weak. lndividual minis-
tries and agencies tend to follow the narrowly conceived demands of their
particular responsibilities, and not to take the implications of their pro-
grams for the activities of other public bodies adequately into account.
2.12      The Government has recently begun to view the absence of effective
planning and the pattern of Tunis' development with concern.  In 1972, it
took an essential initial step by setting up the Tunis District, designed to
create an institutional structure within which the areats development could be
seen and guided as a whole. The principal task of the District is to plan,
coordinate and supervise public investments at the metropolitan level. The staff
falls under the authority of the Governor-Mayor of Tunis; a Board of local
representatives chaired by the Governor-Mayor and a ministerial level Coun-
cil chaired by the Prime Minister exercise supervisory and decision-making
responsibility.
2.13      Establishment of the District constitutes a major step towards
decentralization and sets a precedent for the eventual regionalization of
public administration in Tunisia. Such fundamental change cannot easily be
put into effect and practical measures are only now being taken to establish



-6-
a staff and make the District operational. When it reaches its full effec-
tiveness, the District is to have a major role in planning the public invest-
ment program for the Tunis area, in preparing the state capital budget for
Tunis and in supervising the execution of projects. Agreement was reached
during negotiations on a draft decree concerning the District's organization,
staffing, financial authority and relations with other agencies; issuance of
the decree is a condition of effectiveness. Agreement was also reached on the
establishment of a technical coordinating committee for the District bringing
together decision-making level representatives of the interested ministries
and public corporations.
2.14      The District will have three directorates, responsible respectively
for planning and studies, programming and the public investment budget, and
supervision. In close cooperation with the ministries and other public
agencies concerned, the Planning and Studies Directorate will prepare medium-
and long-term development plans for the District. It will examine fiscal and
financial problems, as well as other public policy issues, concerning the
development of the Tunis area. Before any commitment to an investment project
in the area is made by a ministry, a commune, or, when a state grant is re-
quired for its realization, by a public corporation, the Planning and Studies
Directorate will review the project. The Directorate will also initiate and
prepare specific investment projects through its own staff or with the assist-
ance of consultants.
2.15      The Directorate for Programming and the Budget will participate,
in close cooperation with the Planning Ministry, in the preparation of the
state investment budget insofar as the Tunis area is concerned. The Super-
vision Directorate will ensure the conformity of projects being executed with
agreed plans, and will arrange cooperation with three public land corporations
recently established to ensure the timely availability of land for housing,
industry and tourism.



-7-
III. THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM
3.01      The transport system serving metropolitan Tunis is in many ways
complicated by the walled Medina and by the constricted location of the city
center between two lakes. The major roads and railways serving the area are
shown in Map 10421, which reveals the following distinctive features:
(a) the radial access pattern to the city center;
(b) the absence of north-south and east-west links which.
would avoid the need to traverse the center of town;
(c) the lack of direct access from the southern industrial
areas to the main port area at La Goulette, with the
undesirable result that the main road to the south from
the port, enters the city at its most congested inter-
section, the Place d'Afrique, before being connected to
the southern access road;
(d) a constrained circulation pattern around the Medina and
the discontinuities in the road system within the central
business district due to the Medina's location; and,
(e) the inadequacy of the relatively narrow street system
-in the center to handle increasing traffic flows without
stricter enforcement and perhaps modification of traffic
regulations.
A. Vehicles, Roads and Traffic
3.02      In 1970, vehicle registrations in the Tunis metropolitan area
amounted to some 45,000, nearly 50% of the national total: 31,450 private
and commercial automobiles, 7,350 trucks and lorries and 650 buses and motor-
coaches. In addition, some 20,000 vehicles registered elsewhere in Tunisia
are normally in use in the Tunis area.  At present, private vehicle use is
low relative to other cities of comparable size and wealth, but is increasing
annually at 5% a year, in spite of high customs duties and high prices for
new and second hand purchase. Private vehicle ownership has been estimated
at an average of one automobile for every 27 persons in Tunis although in
wealthier sections of the city the rate is as high as one in two families.
3.03      Traffic growth has averaged 4-5% a year in recent years on most
major roads and has been as high as 9% a year on some sections. Traffic
'volumes on the main approaches to the city reach some 20,000 vehicles per
day (vpd) at the most congested entry point, the main access to the south,
and vary on a typical day between 2,000 vpd to 10,000 vpd. The proportion
of private automobiles varies from as high as 80% to as low as 20% on the



-8-
1heavily industrialized sections of the access routes. Several routes carry
a high proportion of two-wheeled vehicles (bicycles, motorbikes, motor-
scooters and motorcycles), comprising up to 40% of total traffic.
3.04      Physical constraints, such as narrow lane widths in the city center
slow down traffic flows during the peak hour at several key intersections and
on many streets; together with the lack of systematic intersection control
and anarchic driving and parking practices, they contribute to mounting inner
city congestion. Average speeds in peak hour traffic range from 12-15 km/h,
while the average speed of public transport vehicles is about 10 km/h. With-
out improved traffic organization the projected increases of about 40% in bus
traffic over the next few years would further reduce commercial speeds.
3.05      The Municipality of Tunis is responsible for traffic engineering
measures to facilitate circulation. A 1970 traffic engineering study resulted
in a plan for the regulation and improvement of Tunis' traffic flows. The
Municipality has implemented some of the recommended measures in selected areas,
eliminating congestion at some points in the network only to transfer it to
others. The lack of a systematic data base on traffic movements and travel
characteristics hampers development of a broader approach to the problem.
B. Public Transport
3.06      Public transport in Tunis is provided by:
(a)  the bus system run by Societe Nationale des Transports (SNT);
<b)  a northern suburban railway system, the Tunis-La Goulette-La
Marsa Line (TGM), operated by SNT;
(c)  a southern suburban railway system, the Tunis-Hamman Lif
section, operated by the national railway company, SNCFT,
on main line tracks; and
(d)  a public taxi fleet of some 1,100 vehicles.
About 76% of all passenger trips in metropolitan Tunis are made by public
bus or train, 10% by taxi, motorcycle and bicycle, and only 14% by private
car. This compares favorably with Buenos Aires (66%), Stockholm (57%), London
(54%), and Kuala Lumpur (35%) to cite a few examples from both developed and
developing countries. The services provided by SNT account for the bulk (over
90%é) of ali public transport trips by bus and train, and nearly 70% of all
passenger trips by all modes (see Annex 3). In recent years, public transport
patronage on the SNT network has increased at 6-7% annually, compared to the
5% increase in motorization and population.



-9-
(i) The Urban Bus System
3.07      The SNT urban bus system (see Annex 3) consists of some 55 urban
and suburban routes totaling nearly 750 km (Map 10422). The fleet comprises
355 vehicles, of which 104 vehicles are more than 12 years old. Average daily
fleet availability is about 58Z, a rate far below the 85% utilization factor
achieved by efficient public transport undertakings. During peak hours, buses
are usually filled to some 10-15% over rated capacity.  Prior to 1972, no
regular preventive maintenance vas provided by SNT, and parts were replaced
ouly when they became defective.  Due to the difficulty in obtaining spare parts,
10Z of the fleet is now no longer in use, and a high proportion of vehicles
break down during daily operation. 1/ The sole maintenance depot at Bab Saddoun
cannot adequately handle mechanical defects or accident repairs nor fully accom-
modate the vehicle fleet resulting in serious congestion and late departures.
A second depot nearing completion at Cherguia should temporarily ease the
situation, but a third to be constructed under the project is needed to meet
future demand.
3.08      The number of bus (and trolley bus) passengers has increased stead-
ily fron 50 million in 1963 to 130 million in 1972.  The discontinuance of
trolley bus operations in 1969 caused a relative drop in total SNT traffic.
Without improvements to SNT operations and complementary measures to improve
bus circulation to be provided under the project, bus ridership in Tunis is
expected to decline in absolute numbers by 1979 (see Annex 4 for a detailed
AnAlysis of traffic demand).
5ii) The TGM Suburban Railway
3.09      The TGM line operated by SNT serves the northeast corridor (Map
10423) of the metropolitan area. Starting from Place d'Afrique in the cen-
ter, the double track railway crosses the Lake of Tunis on a causeway and con-
tinues up to La Marsa, some 19 km from the central business district. The
northeast corridor, with a 1971 population of 82,000, contains high concen-
trations of both louer and higher income groups, the former clustered at the
Port of La Goulette, the latter residing in areas further northeast.
3.10      The line vas bulît in 1902 and uses rolling stock (some dating back
as far as 1907) which has largely exceeded its useful life.  Between 1963
and 1971, total passengers transported climbed from 11 million to 16 million.
During peak hours (between 7 and 8 a.m.) the number of trains is six to seven
per hour, sometimes even ten, and on the La Goulette-Tunis section, the number
of passengers averages about 3,470 per hour, with an average of 3,000 per hour
for the whole line (see Annex 3). Despite its high level of ridership and high
load per car (68-75) the overaged equipment is all but impossible to maintain.
It iL estimated that, in the absence of a major modernization program, service
could not be maintained more than five years.
1/   In 1972 there were daily breakdowns of 40 vehicles in every 100 average
vehicles. Of these 23 had to be towed back to the garage and the rest
could be repaired on the spot.



- 10 -
(iii) The Southern Suburban Diesel Railway
3.11      Operated by SNCFT, the southern suburban diesel railway is part of
the national railways system which benefited by a modernization of rolling
stock under a Bank loan and IDA credit in 1969. Total passengers transported
grew from some 10 million in 1966 to about 13 million in 1971. The suburban
section is approximately 17 km long and serves part of the southern industrial
area.
(iv) Taxis
3.12      In 1972, there were over 1,100 licensed small taxis, ten large taxis
for public hire and a handful of unlicensed tourist taxis plying the city
streets.  The umall taxi fleet grew by nearly 40Z since 1967, but has leveled
off since the end of 1970. The number of taxis operating in 1973 is likely
to be saaller than in 1972, due chiefly to a steady erosion of the profit
margin of the owners, the result of rising costs of gasoline, spare parts
and maintenance, and an unchanged tariff level fixed by decree in 1967.  For
short distance travel, however, taxis offer a competitive service in the
central area due mainly to their greater mobility. The transport policy study
to be carried out by the District is expected to lead to policy measures to
improve taxi service and to provide alternatives for potential private auto
usersa



- 11 -
IV. TRANSPORT POLICY AND URBAN PLANNING ISSUES
A. Towards a Transport Policy for Tunis
4.01      The availability of reliable snd efficient transport has an impor-
tant impact on the direction of Tunis' future growth. Given the spatial con-
straints of the central city, an unrestricted increase in private automobiles
will make circulation all the more difficult. The Government has decided to
accord priority to public transport.  Nevertheless, improved public transport
facilities are clearly ouly one step. The project therefore emphasizes the
need for metropolitan-vide planning.
4.02      A comprehensive transport policy must be designed for Tunis.  An
increase in the supply of buses and complementary measures to improve the
traffic flow are part of the overall urban development effort, as is also
the establishment of a policy to prevent an increasing diversion to private
automobiles by those who are marginally able to afford a car but continue to
use public transport. Increasing private automobile use is not only un-
economic but also leads to demands for the costly infrastructure necessary
to support an auto-dependent urban society. Moreover, the high cost of re-
liance on the auto is self-reinforcing; the mobility provided by the auto
encourages the dispersed urban sprawl that requires still further investnent
in costly infrastructure.
4.03      The Government already imposes high import duties on private auto-
mobiles, amounting to soue 55%-65Z of the CIE price. Under a Governnent quota
system, the number of locally manufactured and imported vehicles has remained
at about 2,500 a year between 1965-1970. The tax component on the local
vehicles is also nearly as high as on imported vehicles and the high tariffs
and quotas have the effect of limiting private automobile ownership. The
import duties are also not designed to protect the local enterprise, Societe
Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile (STIA), which has ouly a 30-40% share of
the market for new vehicles in Tunisia (see Annex 12).
4.04      Improvements in public transport can only be effective with comple-
mentary efforts to improve traffic flows (see para. 5.06) and regulate pri-
vate automobile use in the city center. Under the project, a consultant to
the Municipality of Tunis vould make recommendations concerning the enforce-
ment and, as necessary, modification of traffic regulations, (including the
possibility of organizing a municipal towing service to remove illegally
parked vehicles), the level of fines for illegal parking, and controls over
the utilization of existing parking areas.  It should also be noted that the
Government is currently studying the level of private automobile insurance
premia in relation to the real costs of insurance services. It is expected
that this study will lead to a revision of insurance rates in about one year. 1/
1/   Recent studies of the insurance industry indicate that all companies,
public and privately owned, lose money on their automobile insurance
operations and subsidize the losses internally through profits on other
operations. The Governument fixes insurance rates and insurance is com-
pulsory for all automobile owners.



- 12 -
For the longer term, issues relating to restraints on private automobile
ownership and use vill be taken up in the District's transport policy study.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it vould consult and agree
with the Bank/IDA on follow-up action to be taken on the recommendations re-
sulting from the studies. The record of action in this field will be an
important element in the consideration of a possible second Bank Group project
for the development of metropolitan Tunis.
B.  The Urban Focus of the Pro]ect
4.05      The formulation of an urban transport policy cannot be undertaken
in a vacuum. In the past, transport investment decisions in Tunis have been
taken in response to the haphazard expansion of a city whose land options
are limited by its constricted location and historical evolution. With the
residential settlements now expanding to the east and west of the city center,
the traditional focus on the north-south transport axis must be reexamined.
Decisions regarding transport as well as other priority urban projects depend
on the location of urban structures and activities, their densities, their
physical arrangement, and the interrelations among housing, places of work,
shopping, recreation, and other services.
4.06      The project places special emphasis on the effective establishment
of the Tunis District, as the institutional framework for systematically iden-
tifying urgent needs, and guiding future growth by promoting the execution of
projects that vill influence such growth patterns. Rational physical patterns
developed in this way will make a major contribution to reducing transport
requirements, thus releasing scarce resources for other priority needs.
C. Urban Planning and Investments
4.07      Past Bank Group lending operations in the Tunis area did not have
the benefit of well-defined guidelines for urban development, thereby pre-
venting activities such as improvement of inter-city highways to the outskirts
of Tunis and development of industry through SNI, from achieving their maximum
impact. The assistance to be given in developing appropriate urban policies
and investment programa is, accordingly, of direct relevance to the effective-
ness of these projects, as well as of future projects in the Tunis area.
4.08      A Bank-financed project for improving the capacity and characteris-
tics of the GP-1 highway to Tunis is in execution and feasibility studies on
its southern approach and western and northern access routes are underway.
The feasibility study of the northern access route will examine its impact
on a north-south link (called Z4) to traverse the city center, as proposed by
the Directorate of Roads in the Ministry of Public Works and Housing. The
feasibility study will be confined to the effects of the road on the city's
traffic distribution system, to the exclusion of assessing its impact on land
use and other development.



- 13 -
4.09      The proposed north-south link would have a direct negative effect
on the rational development of the city, further emphasizing its north-south
orientation at the expense of east-west movement. In the absence of detailed
study, construction of the full Z4 would appear to be inconsistent with the
Government policy of improving public transport services. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that, until the Bank has been consulted on the conclusions
of the Tunis District's transport policy study, funds will not be committed to
new arterial highway investments in the District, including all but a portion
of the proposed Z4 and extension of the Tunis-La Goulette highway which par-
allels the T"? railwav line to the TGM terminus at La Marsa.



- 14 -
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The project con'sists of:
(a)  consu:.tant services to the Tunis District, to aid it in
carrying out its planning, prograrming and supervision
functions and in training its personnel;
(b)  purchase of up to 210 buses, including an initial stock
of spare parts, to renew SNT's urban bus fleet and help
meet its needs for new vehicles;
(c) purchase of 26 electric railway cars, signaling equipment
and other materials required to renew the TGM railway line
of SNT;
(d)  construction of a new bus maintenance depot for SNT;
(e)  improvement of key traffic intersections and purchase and
installation of related signaling equipment for the
Municipality of Tunis; and
(f)  consultant services for technical assistance to the Goveru-
ment, SNT and the Municipality of Tunis.
A. Main Features
1)   The Planning Effort - Tunis District
5.02      The project provides consultant services for technical assistance
to the Tunis District to prepare a long-range comprehensive urban development
strategy, which should aid in identifying and coordinating both short-term
and long-term inter-sectoral investment decisions.  The District will also
undertake special policy studies on transport, housing and public finance.
During negotiations it was confirmed that the Government will review with
the Bank/IDA and agree on follow-up action in the light of study recommenda-
tions.  Feasibility studies for housing and industrial zones will be part of
such follow-up action and consultant assistance to this end is also provided
for in the project. The content and timing of the program of urban studies
te be carried out are detailed in Annex 2.
5.03      A major effort will be necessary by the Government to build up
the District staff to the required size and competence. To this end, the
project will provide, under joint Bank/IDA and UNDP financing, for a team
of consultants to assist the District in executing its work program and
training its staff. Additional consultants would be made available for
special, short-term assignments. The Bank would act as Executing Agency
for the UNDP project. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the



- 15 -
text of the UNDP Project Document; employment of the consultants is a condi-
tion of loan and credit effectiveness.
2)   Public Transport Improvement - SNT
(a) Bus Operations
5.04      The project provides assistance to renew and expand SNT's bus fleet
to meet vehicle requirements for the 1973-75 period. The purchase of 210 new
buses would enable SNT to replace equipment which has passed its economic life
and to increase its capacity to accommodate future passenger demand. To im-
prove bus maintenance, the project includes the construction and equipment
of a new maintenance depot at Bir Kiassa which will ensure the proper overhaul
and maximum use of available vehicles and permit more efficient bus schedul-
ing. Provision for an initial stock of spare parts needed in routine main-
tenance is also included. It is expected that fleet renewal and expansion
should permit SNT to increase bus utilization from 58% in 1973 to 85% in
1976. (See Annex 5 for an analysis of bus fleet requirements.)
(b)  TGM Rail Services
5.05      The project provides for the purchase of 26 new rail cars (13 motor/
trailer sets) to replace the overaged fleet, track renovation to permit higher
overall performance, installation of modern signaling equipment and improve-
ment of maintenance. Maintenance and renewal of the line through provision of
electrically powared rolling stock would be the most economic solution. (See
Annex 6 for an analysis of the modernization program.)
(c)  *anagerial and Technical Assistance
5.06      To ensure that SNT reaches a satisfactory level of operation and
adopts sound management practices, the project provides for four consultants
to assist SNT over a two-year period in the management of bus and TGM opera-
tions and maintenance and to assist in use of modern managerial control and
cost accounting procedures. Short-term technical assistance will also be
provided to review the technical specifications of the equipment to be ac-
quired, to assist in preparing tender documents, and to assist in evaluating
tenders. The employment of consultants by SNT on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank/IDA was confirmed during negotiations; hiring by SNT of
all consultants except the railway expert (whose services are not required
until the new equipment begins to arrive in mid-1974) is a condition of
effectiveness.
3)   Complementary Traffic Engineering Improvements
5.07      To improve traffic flows and facilitate circulation of buses in the
congested areas of the city, the project would help finance the Municipality's
priority program (see Annex 7 for details) of intersection improvements, in-
stallation of traffic lights, and construction of pedestrian crossings and
underpasses (Map 10424). In particular, the project includes:



- 16 -
(i)  the redesign and reconstruction of six major inter-
sections to control traffic flows more efficiently;
(ii) installation of traffic signals at fifteen intersections;
(iii) synchronization of signals at the six redesigned intersec-
tions; and
(iv)  construction of pedestrian underpasses at five major squares,
including two of the above six intersections.
The project also provides consultant services for assistance to the Munic-
ipality of Tunis, to establish methods for systematic observation and analy-
sis of traffic patterns, and to aid in introducing priority schemes for pub-
lic transport. This work would be carried out within the broader framework
of the transport policy study to be undertaken by the District (paras. 4.04
and 5.02) and would lead to the formulation of a short and medium-term action
program based on the consultant's report. FolLow-up action on the consultant's
recommendations would be agreed with the Bank/IDA within one year of effective-
ness of the loan and credit. The consultant's report would alo serve as a
basis for the establishment of traffic improvement targets to be agreed with
the Bank/IDA and monitored and supervised by the Tunis District.  Emplayment
of the consultant on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA was
confirmed during negotiations and is a condition of effectiveness.
4)   Urban Study of Sfax
5.08      The project includes financing for an urban study of Sfax, Tunisia's
second largest city, located 280 km south of Tunis. While Sfax's growth has
been rapid, it has been haphazard and uncontrolled. The main objective of the
study would be to evaluate the development options recently proposed in a Gov-
ernment report (see Annex 9) and lay the groundwork for urban projects suitable
for future consideration by the Bank/IDA and other sources of external finance,
with a view towards developing Sfax as the main industrial growth center in
the south. The study would be undertaken under the direction of the Ministry
of National Economy - Regional Development Directorate wJth the aid of con-
sultants. It was confirmed during negotiations that consultants will be
hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
B. Cost Estimates
5.09      Project cost estimates are summarized in the table below and derailed
in Annex 9. The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, is
about D 12.5 million (US$28.6 million equivalent).  The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at nearly D 8.5 million (US$19.5 million equivalent),
or 68% of the total.



- 17 -
Summary Cost Estimates
(Tt '000)              (US$ '000)
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Z Foreign
1) Tunis District
Study Program                 137    533    670    316  1,225  1,541   79
Contingencies /1               14     53      67     32    122    154   79
Subtotal /2              151    586    737    348  1,347  1,695   79
2) Public Transport (SNT)
Bus Procurement             2,142  2,226  4,368  4,868  5,059  9,927   51
TGM Modernization             141  3,458  3,599    324  7,950  8,274   96
Bus Maintenance Depot         584    811  1,395  1,343  1,864  3,207   58
Technical Assistance           95    191    236    218    439    657   67
Contingencies /3              381    839  1,220    858  1,920  2,778   69
Subtotal                3,343  7,525 10,868  7,611 17,232 24,843   69
3) Traffic Engineering Improvements
Improvements Program          365    256    621    839    589  1,428   41
Technical Assistance           30      45     75      69    104    173   60
Contingencies /1               40     30      70      92     69    161   43
Subtotal                   435    331    766  1,000    762  1,762   43
4) Sfax Urban Study
Study Program                  51     75    126    118    172    290   59
Contingencies /1                5       8     13      12     17      19   59
Subtotal                    56     83    139    130    189    319   59
TOTAL                   3,98S  8.525 12,510  9,089 19,530 28,619   68
/1   Physical and price contingencies of 10%.
/2   Includes UNDP financing of US$850,000.
/3   Physical contingency 5%, price escalation 5% a year over procurement period.
5.10      Cost estimates for the bus procurement and TOM modernization elements
of the project are based on consultant studies, SNT's (and SNCFT's) past ex-
perience and on consultation during appraisal. The estimates take into account
the recent cost experience of large public transport undertakings in Europe in
the purchase of similar equipment.



- 18 -,
C. Project Financing Plan
5.11      The proposed Bank loan of US$11 million and IDA credit of US$7 mil-
lion would cover 92% of the foreign currency costs of US$19.53 million, which
represent 68% of total project costs of US$28.6 million. The UNDP contribu-
tion of US$850,000 would cover about 4% of the foreign currency cost, and
Tunisian financial institutions will cover the remainder (i.e. US$680,000
equivalent fcr materials imported by STIA in the marufacture of bus bodies).
The Tunisian institutions will also cover some US$5.5 million equivalent of
the local currency costs of the project.  A su=rary of the financing required
is as follows:
D uillions   US$ millions    z
Sources of Funds
Proposed IBRD Loan and IDA Credit           7.852        18.000         63
UNDP Contribution (for Tunis District)   0.374            0.350          3
Government (for District, Traffic
Improvements, Sfax Study)                 0.642         1.478          5
Government (for Public Transport-SNT)    0.937            2.154          8
Tunisian Banks (for Public Transport-
SNT)                                     2.705          6.137         21
Proposed Project Expenditures              12.510        28.619        100
5.12      The financing plan does not show an estimated D 7.1 million in
duties and taxes on imported rolling stock and other equipment for which
SNT would normally be liable. The Government indicated during negotiations
that SNT would be exempt from these taxes and duties in view of the nature
of the capital investments involved.
5.13      The Borrower would be the Government of Tunisia.  The portion of
the IBRD loan and IDA credit (i.e. US$16.552 million equivalent) representing
96% of foreign currency expenditures for SNT public transport improvements
would be relent by the Government to SNT on terms and conditions applicable
to the Bank loan to the Government. The term of the loan has been determined
equal to the weighted average economic life of the major project components;
a term of 22 years including four years of grace, at the prevailing interest
rate on Bank loans, 7.25%, would be appropriate. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached that Bank and IDA funds will be relent on the terms and con-
ditions of the proposed Bank loan to the Governnent. Signature of a subsid-
iary loan agreement between the Governnent and SNT is a condition of effec-
tiveness. The local financing would probably be made available to SNT through
a consortium of Tunisian Banks headed by SNI, and would assist in the purchase
of buses manufactured by STIA on chassis to be imported under the project (see
para 5.17). The terms of this local financing are expected to be ten years
at 3% interest.  The finally agreed terms are subject to Bank/IDA approval.



-19-
D.  Project Éxecution - The Institutional Arrangements
5.14      The metropolitan Tunis District will be responsible for overall
supervision of project execution, and'will effect coordination among the
different entities involved. To ensure the District's effective operation,
the following measures have been taken:
(a)  The District's organization, staffing pattern, financial
authority and relations with other agencies, vere discussed
and agreed during negotiations, on the basis of a draft de-
cree; issuance of the decree is a condition of effectiveness.
(b)  The future Director-General of the District participated in
the negotiations on the project. The assignment of Tunisian
staff to the District vill begin during the second half of
1973. The hiring of suitably qualified counterpart staff for
the consultants to be provided under the project (para. 5.02)
is a condition of effectiveness.
(c)  The establishment of a Technical Coordinating Committee bringing
together senior officials of the interested ministries and public
agencies is a condition of effectiveness.
5.15      SNT will begin executing the public transport improvements during
the fourth quarter of 1973. Procurement of buses, TGM rail cars and other
necessary equipment will take place over a three-year period. A detailed
project implementation schedule is shown in Chart 7662(R).
5.16      The Tunis Municipality will be responsible for executing the traffic
engineering and control measures. Construction of intersections and pedestrian
underpasses and installation of signaling equipment vill be contracted out.
E.  Procurement
5.17      During negotiations, the Government requested that the Bank Group
finance imported chassis and mechanical sub-assemblies for buses; the compo-
nents would be assembled by the Tunisian automobile and bus manufacturing
enterprise, Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile (STIA). To ensure that
the cost to the project of the STIA assembled buses is not unreasonable, it
was agreed during negotiations that buses would be procured through STIA only
if STIA's firm offer does not exceed by more than 15% an international refer-
ence price (CIF Tunis) for comparable buses to be established by SNT with the
assistance of a consultant and agreed by the Bank. If STIA's price exceeds
this limit, SNT will acquire complete buses through international competitive
bidding.
5.18      Local procurement of buses should help to build up STIA's capacity
to manufacture bus bodies and thus provide the impulse for a new industrial



- 20 -
activitv in an area where, because of low priced labor, Tunisia has a com-
parative advantage. STIA already has experience in assembling buses from
imported components, and it has recently launched an expansion program, which
would' become operational with the project buses, under which it will manufac-
ture bodies largeiy from locally produced. naterials and compiete the bDses
with imported chassis and mechanical sub-assemblies.  STIA wilI receive tec-h-
nical assistance rrom. van Hool, a well-known European body manufacturer, with
w..h4ch it has recently signed a licensing agreement. The expansion program
will create some 300 new lobs ir. STIA, în addition to an unspecii-ed rtutber
of Dositions in domestic supplying industries.  SLIA's participation in the
project would be consistent with the recommendations of recent Bank economic
reports, which proposed that Tunisia concentrate on labor-intensive pro4uction
such as assembly operations.
5.19      STIA has invited bids for the supply of bus chassis and mechanical
sub-assemblies on the basis of international competitive bidding. The Bank
has reviewed the bidding procedures followed by STIA on the offers, and is
satisfied that the procedures conform with the Bank'e Procurement Guidealines.
STIA is expected soon to subtlit its evaluation report wd recommenéations to
the Banxk for approval before commencing contract negotiations for the award
of contracts.
5.20      The Bank has reviewed and found satiseactory STIA's financial and
organizational capability to manufacture and deliver on schedule the buses
required by SNT under the project (see Annex 12).  On the basis of Bank es-
timates, it appears unlikely that the price of a STIA-manufactured bus wili
exceed the international reference price (C1F Tunis) for comparable buses
by more than 15%. SNT will employ a consultant financed under the proposed
loan and credit to aid irn evaluating STIA's bid price against thea prevailing
international market prices prior to award of the contract to STIA. Tàe eval-
uation will be sent ta .he Bank for review and approvai of the internatîonal
reference price and the award. Arrangements satisfactory to thr Bank to com-
plete the f inancing of the buses to be acquired by SNT uou_d be a condition
of Bank approval of SNT's contract with STIA.
5.21      With the exception of the traffic improvement program of the
Municirality of Tunis all project-financed items, including particulsrly the
Tn,}f rail equipment and the construction and equipment of the bus maintenance
depot, would be procured through international competitive bidding. A
preference of 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever fs lower, would
be applied to hids from local equipment manufacthrers; preferential tariffs
will not be taken into account in bîd evaluation. Standardization of the
Municipality's traffic signaling equipment calls for new purchases to be
made from existing suprliers through normal commercial channels; the Munici-
pality's constructîon works under the project will be carried out in small
units and procureinent of construction services will be undertaken In accordance
with Tunisian Government procurement regulations.
5.22      Under present SNT regulations, contracta over D 50,000 require
prior approvai by SNT's Board and by the Government -  a process which is
time-consuming. To avoid delays in the award and execution of contracts,



- 21 -
agreement was reached during negotiations that the General Mianager of SNT
will be authorized to commit up to D 100,000 (US$230,000) without prior
approval of the SNT Board or Government.
F. Disbursement
5.23      To prevent delays in procurement, the Bank has agreed to reimburse
payments by SNT for project-related consultant services from June 1, 1973.
The amount of retroactive financing will not exceed US$50,000.
5.24      Foreign goods are expected to be imported largely in 1974 and 1975,
and the loan and credit to be fully disbursed by the end of 1976. (See Annex
13 for the disbursement schedule). Diabursements from the loan and credit
accounts would be made against:
(i) the CIF cost of all imported goods, spare parts and equipment;
(ii)  45% (representing the estimated CIF costs of bus chassis and
homogenous mechanical sub-assemblies) of total expenditures
on the purchase of any locally procured buses;
(iii)  50Z (representing the estimated foreign component) of total
expenditures on construction of the bus maintenance depot;
(iv)  35Z (representing the estimated foreign component) of total
expenditures on other civil works;
tv)  100% of foreign costs of consultant services, except in the
case of the Tunis District, for which the loan and credit
would finance only 35% of the total expenditures on consul-
tant services, the UNDP providing the remainder of the for-
eign exchange cost.
5.25      The IDA credit would be disbursed before the Bank loan.



- 22 -
VI. THE SNT PUBLIC TRANSPORT COMPONENT
A. Orgaiiization, Financial Aspects, Economic Analysis
1)        The Executing Institution - SNT
6.01      SNT is a public corporation created by statute in March 1963 to
succeed the Tunis Transport and Electricity Company and other nationalized
transport undertakings. There are no compensation disputes outstanding.
In addition to urban bus and rail services, SNT was authorized to provide
inter-urban bus service and operate a small fleet of tour coaches, hire
cars and taxis. The SNT Statute provides for control of the undertaking by
a Board of eight members appointed by the Government.  Four Board members
(including the Chairman) are Government officials, two represent the staff,
and two are selected from the public and private sectors for outstanding
technical or financial competence. All executive responsibilities are
vested in the General Manager (President Director-General), who is chosen
by the Government and serves as Board Chairman. The powers of the Board
are limited by the overriding authority of the Government, whose prior ap-
proval is required for: (i) any decision, which under corporation law re-
quires approval of the gcneral assembly of shareholders; (ii) operating and
capital budgets; (iii) staff rules and regulations; (iv) tariffs; (v) sale
of assets; and (vi) borrowing. The freedom of SNT in day-to-day operations
is not affected by these requirements.
6.02      A management reorganization of SNT was undertaken in early 1972.
The new General Manager has introduced important changes in administration,
maintenance and operations to increase efficiency. He has also established
a Planning Unit, to complement the work of the four departments: Adminis-
tration, Finance, Operations and Engineering.
6.03      SNT's present organization (see Chart 7659) is adequate to handle
future operations. There is, nonetheless, a lack of sufficient awareness
of modern management practices and, in particular, operationally oriented
research. In addition, senior staff are burdened with day-to-day operating
problems.  To remedy this situation, in addition to assisting SNT through
the period of expansion and modernization, the consultants to be provided
under the project will help it establish and utilize modern managerial
control and cost accounting procedures (para. 5.05).
6.04      At the end of 1971, total personnel of SNT numbered about 2,500.
Productivity was estimated at about 320,000 pass-km per man-year on the bus
system, and somewhat more than twice this figure on the TGM railway line.
Staff costs have been rising since 1967; additional wage increases are anti-
cipated as SNT follows the pattern of other public enterprises which have
recently granted major vage increases. The large number of staff reflects
exceza personnel remaining after discontinuance of SNT's trolley bus and taxi
services, and the general pressure in Tunisia to maintain an unnecessarily



- 23 -
large work force in order to reduce unemployment. During negotiations, it
was agreed that SNT would keep its staffing position under review, and im-
plement policies to improve manpower tutilization and training; SNT vill in-
crease its staff only if managerial efficiency or the execution of the Proj-
ect warrants employment of specialized personnel.  The performance targets
to be developed with the assistance of consultants (see para. 6.21) are ex-
pected to include manpower and productivity targets that would be the subject
-of consultation and agreement with the Bank/IDA prior to follow-up action by
SNT.
B. Financial Aspects
1)   General
6.05      SNT's financial position is deteriorating.  Its urban bus and TGM
operations, while not yet in deficit, have declined in profitability in re-
cent years. Its inter-urban operations were in deficit for the first time
in 1971 and the prospects are for increasing deficits.
2)   Past Finapcial Performance
6.06      The table below summarizes SNT's operating results in the recent
past:
in D '000
1969              1970               1971
SNT    SNT        SNT        SNT      SNT       SNT
Total   Urban    Total       Urban   Total      Urban
Revenue                  4,660   3,031    5,148       3,474   5,582       3,730
Operating Expenses       4,257   2,657    4,912       3,268   5,496       3,610
Net Operating Income        403     374       236        206      86        120
Although past operations have been moderately profitable as evidenced above,
SNT's inter-urban operations have been contributing a declining share of net
income and in 1971 were in deficit. The urban operations also show a declin-
ing trend on profitability.
6.07      Although SNT maintains separate income accounts for its urban and
inter-urban operations, methods for allocating common charges require review.
As detailed in Annex 14, amendments have been made to SNT's financial state-
ments to conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The financial
statements also overstate the profitability of the enterprise as maintenance
levels have been far from satisfactory in the past and inconsistencies in ac-
counting practice are also evident. To remedy this situation and establish



- 24 -
the cost accounting system needed to provide more reliable indicators of per-
fornmance and ensure greater consistency in allocating common charges, SNT
will hire a financial consultant (see para. 5.05) under the project; out-
line terms of reference are provided in Annex 10.
3)   Present Financial Position
6.08      SNT's present Balance Sheets do not show a breakdown of current
assets or liabilities into the urban and inter-urban operations. The Bal-
ance Sheet for the year 1971, (the latest year for which Government inspected
statements are available), also does not reflect SNT's true financial posi-
tion in that there is an underestimate of fixed asset value in respect of
TGM railway track and signaling equipment.  In the course of the financial
analysis, a tentative evaluation of the assets was made on the basis outlined
in Annex 13, in order to estimate the financial position with respect to the
urban bus and TGO  operations.  This is summarized in the table below:
(As at Dec. 31, 1971)
(D '000)
SNT           SNT           SNT
Total         Total    Urban Operations
(Actual)    (Revalued)    (Revalued)
Current Assets                              4,411        4,411          2,909
Net Fixed Assets                            5t309        6,951          4,990
Total Assets                          9,720        11,362          7 899
Current Liabilities                         3,837        3,831          2,437
Long-term Debt                              1,575        1,575          1,322
Equity                                      4,308        5,950          4,140
Total Liabilities                         11,362                   7,899
6.09      The above amendments have been used as the starting point for the
financial projections on SNT's urban operations. A similar starting point
needs to be established for SNT's inter-urban operations, in order to sepa-
rate the financial implications of operating policies and practices on the
urban and inter-urban activities. A separation of the urban operations into
the bus and TGM components would also be needed as part of the cost account-
ing system to be developed by the financial consultant (para. 6.07). During
ne-otiations, agreement was reached that independent external audits will be
carried out starting with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1973 and that
separate accounts for SNT's urban and inter-urban operations will be estab-
lished starting with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1973, and maintained
separately thereafter. Agreement was also reached that independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA will be appointed and that accounts and
financial statements will be audited in accordance with sound auditing prac-
tices.



- 25 -
4)   Tariffs and Subsidies
6.10      SNT's present tariff level and structure are detailed in Annex 15.
Passengers paying ordinary fares at single journey rates account for only
about 45% of the total traffic but contribute nearly 72% of total revenues.
Students form some 32% of the traffic but yield only 5% of total revenues.
For the past 20 years, the only tariff increases have been on the TGt4 in
1967 and on bus operations in 1969, each averaging 15%.  The f nancial re-
lationship between the Government and SNT, as spelled out in the SNT Statute,
includes a provision that the Government, when imposing any redutced tarif'f
structure (as for students and other special classes of passengers) would
compensate SNT for an amount up to the differences between the normal and
the reduced tariff level in question. The Statute provides for an annual
presentation by SNT of the compensation required prior to the start of the
new year and for payments to be made during the year.
6.11      Until 1972, SNT had not specifically requested that statutory com-
pensation.  This oeission stemmed from a false sense of profitability of its
operations, as evidenced by modest, though declining, levels of operating in-
come. The absence of adequate maintenance practices and satisfactory cost
accounting were in part responsible for the profitability picture despite
the relatively low tariff levels.
6.12      SNT now faces a period in which extensive replacement of its capi-
tal stock will be needed over the next ten years. The project would cover
SNT's capital expenditure requirements on its urban operations through 1975
although some elements of the project would not be completed until mid-1976.
SNT will face fleet replacement and fleet expansion needs beyond this stage
in order to sustain the level of improved operations. Accordingly, financial
requirements have been estimated up to 1981 in order fully to appreciate the
likely financing gap.  Given SNT's present tariff structure, SNT's urban bus
and TGM operations are expected to show increasing operating losses rising
from some D 65,000 in 1972 to nearly D 2.9 million in 1981 despite major im-
provements in maintenance practices and better control of operating costs;
(see Table, para. 6.14). To assist SNT in reducing these losses, the Gov-
ernment has agreed that it vill comply with its obligation under the SNT
Statute to compensate SNT to the extent that it imposes reduced tariffs for
certain categories of passengers. This compensation is expected to cover
some 50% of SNT's operating cash losses including debt service. The remain-
ing gap between cash income and cash expenses will be largely covered through
a revision of SNT's tariffs on urban services. During negotiations the Gov-
ernnent agreed that, as a first step toward a longer term policy, SNT's tariffs
would be increased by mid-1975, se as to effect an overall increase of not less
*          than 15% in SNT's operating income on its urban services.  This tariff increase
would represent the minimum financial worth to the community of improvements
undertaken through the project. SNT's inter-urban operations, which are
outside the scope of the present project, have experienced sericus losses
in recent years, and the company has agreed, no later than December 31, 1974,
to modify its inter-urban tariffs so that operating revenue (including any
compensation for reduced tariffs) will cover operating expenses and debt
service requirements on this branch of its operations.



- 26 -
6.13      Long-term tariff policy for SNT's urban operations will be con-
sidered in the context of an urban transport policy study to be carried out
by the District. The Government and SNT will adjust tariffs in agreement
with the Bank in light of the economically and socially desirable level rec-
ommended by the study. Any Government subsidies will be linked to a set of
financial and operational performance criteria to be elaborated by SNT with
the assistance of consultants and agreed by the Bank by the end of April 1974.
These criteria will cover the introduction of improved financial controls,
operating and maintenance targets, including manpower, and indices of labor
productivity. An annual review of performance and financial requirements
will be carried out by SNT, the Government and the Bank.
6.14     This approach to urban transport differs from the Bank's usual con-
cept of the financial autonomy and viability of enterprises whose investnent
programs it supports. Subsidization of metropolitan public transport systems
may be justified, however, since the external benefits of improved public
transport and balanced urban growth cannot be fully captured financially
through tariffs. Since low-income groups would be the main beneficiaries
of such subsidization, this would also be in keeping with the social desir-
ability of income transfers to such groups. The studies to be carried out
under the project, and especially the attempt to relate subsidization to
performance, will contribute to the Bank's knowledge in this new area.
5)  Forecast Operating Results
6.15      Forecast Income Statements for 1972/81 are detailed in Annex 14,
Table 4, together with the assumptions used in deriving the forecasts. As
explained earlier (para. 6.09), the forecasts only cover SNT's urban bus
and TGM operations. The results shown and operating loss of D 65,000 in
1972, rising up to D 2.9 million in 1981. The effect of Government com-
pensation and tariff adjustments (para. 6.12) on the forecasts is also
shown in Annex 14, Table 4. The forecast results are summarized below:
1972   1973         1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981
Revenue          4,016  4,191  4,477  4,865    5,091    5,294    5,504    5,715    5,922    6,1L43
Operating Expenses  4,081  4,379  5,202  6,116    6,566    6,985    7,476    7.993  8,533    9,054
Operating Income (Lose)  (65)  (188)  (725)  (1,251)  (1,475)  (1,691)  (1,972)  (2,278)  (2,611)  (2,911)
Less: Interest     131    146   331    603   801,  829  826   845   868  838
(196)  (334)    (1,056)    (1,854)   (2,279)   (2,520)  (2,798)  (3,123)  (3,479)  (3,749)
Add: Compensation for
Reduced Tarif.Ç  -     950  1,000  1,150  1,150  1,250    1,250  1,40o  1,400    1,400
Additional Revenue  -  -     -      666  762    1,515    1,571    2,231    2,313    2,398
Net Income (Loss)  (196)  616  (56)  (38)  (367)    (245)  23  508  234  49
after Interest,
Compensation and
Tarir£ Revi3ions/
Subsidies
Item: Passengers on SNT  145.9  153.6  165.6  189.1    197.7    206.9   220.7    232.2  246.4   261.5
Services (millions)



- 27 -
6.16      The above results indicate the likely implications of continued
Government compensation for revised tariffs, of possible tariff revisions,
and subsidies to cover shortfalls in tariff revenues. In view of SNT's
strong dependence on the Government, it would not be meaningful to specify
the financial ratios on its urban operations that normally apply to commer-
cially viable entities. Instead, a set of operational-cum-financial targets,
such as discussed in para. 6.22, would provide an objective frame of refer-
ence.
6)   Ten-Year Financing Plan for SNT
6.17      The financing plan for SNT's urban bus and TGM operations for the
period up to 1981 is indicated in the table below. It is derived from the
detailed forecast sources and applications of funds statement shovn in Annex
14, Table 5.
Total     Total        Ten Year
1973-76   1977-81        Total      %
(D'000)
Requirements of Funds
Operating Losses                    3,639    11,461        15,100     41.6
Debt Service                        3 512     7,895        11,407     31.5
7;151    19,356        26,507     73.1
Less:  Depreciation                 3,484     6,197         9.681      26.7
3,667    13,159        16,826     46-.4
Working Capital Requirements          907     3,018         3,925      10.8
Net Operating Cash Requirements   4,574    16,177          20,751     57.2
Capital Investments
Proposed Project                   10,868      -           10,868      30.0
Other Capital Needs                 1,166     3,477         4,643      12.8
Total Capital Investments          12,034     3,477        15,511     42.8
TOTAL                              16 608    19 654        36 262    100.0
Sources of Funds
Borrowings
Proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit 7,226        -            7,226      19.9
Other Loans and Credits             3,704     2,926         6,630      18.3
Total Borrowings                   10,930     2,926        13,856      38.2
Government
Compensation Article 23
(Reduced Tariffs)                4,250      6,700        10,950     30.2
Additional Revenues through
Tariff Increases and/or
Government Subsidy                1.428    10,028        11 456     31.6
5,678    16,728        22,406     61.8
TOTAL                              16,608    19,654        36,262    100.0



- 28 -
6.18      Thle proposed borrowings under the financing plan are:
(a) The proposed borrowing of Bank/IDA funds of D 7.226
million (US$16.552 million equivalent) to be provided
on terms of 22 years, including a grace period of four
years, with interest at 7.25% p.a. (para. 5.13).
(b) A borrowing of D 3.0 million (US$6.9 million equivalent)
through a consortium of Tunisian Banks possibiy headed by
the SNI to complete the financing needed for the bus ac-
quisition program through 1975, to be provided on terms
of ten years with interest at 8% p.a.
(c) Other loans and/or suppliers' credits of D 3.630 million,
necessary to cover the remaining capital expenditures for
the ten year program. They are assumed to be made for terms
of ten years with interest at 9% p.a., which are comparable
to terms obtained by SNT in 1970/72.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that until the end of 1978,
SNT will not undertake or execute any new major investment for its urbau
operations other than the project or the acquisition of the additional 110
buses estimated by the Bank/IDA to be required from 1976-1978 -without first
satisfying the Bank/IDA that such action would not interfere with its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement. Agreement was also reached that for cap-
ital investments for its urban operations during the period 1976-80, SNT vill
prepare and present before December 31, 1975, for Government and Bank/IDA re-
view, technical and financial justification of the proposed investment pro-
gran. Consultant services being provided under the project vill assist in
this task, which will be carried out in cooperation with the District.
6.19      SNT's inter-urban operations are also expected to require heavy
capital expenditures in order to modernize the outdated coach fleet and to
improve passenger services. In view of the continuing deficits on this op-
eration and, in addition to the assurances on the separation of accounts
(para. 6.04), agreement was obtained that, until the national transport
study currently in execution 1/ is completed, SNT will not undertake through
borrowings major new capital investments for this operation without prior
consultation with the Bank/IDA.
7)     Future Financial Position
6.20      Forecast Balance Sheets of SNT's urban bus and TGM operations for
the years ending December 31, 1971-Si are detailed in Annex 14 and indicate
that SNT's revalued financial position on its urban operations would remain
1/   The study covers coordination of road and rail services in Tunisia and
is being carried out by the Directorate of Transport in the Ministry of
National Economy with the aid of consultants, financed under Loan 746-
TUN, (Highway Project).



- 29 -
satisfactory. With the Government providing the necessary compensation and
with the net additional revenues as postulated, the current ratio is never
below 1, which is adequate. The ratio of long-term debt to equity will not
be higher than 73:27.
6.21      In order to ensure that SNT's operating cash income remains at a
level sufficient to permit systematic and satisfactory scheduling of main-
tenance, assurances were obtained that SNT's net annual revenues on its urban
operations will cover cash operating expenses including adequate maintenance
plus estimated future debt service. For this purpose, net revenues will in-
clude the amounts to be provided SNT as Government compensation for reduced
tariffs and to be obtained through tariff increases and/or Government sub-
sidies in lieu thereof.
8)   Monitoring - Financial and Operating Targets
A.22     SNT's financial dependence on the Government makes it difficult to
use conventional financial ratios as targets to measure performance. On the
other hand, a set of operating targets as indicators of increased managerial
efficacity and financial performance of fers a suitable alternative for moni-
toring and control purposes. The principal improvements in operations and
maintenance that are expected at the end of the project period are summarized
below:
1973       Indicative      Date
Figure        Target      Expected
A. Bus Operations
1) Operations
- Passenger Trips (million)                136.7        170        1975
- Percentage of Overload                    10            -        1975
- No. of Vehicles in Service               300          392        1975
2) Maintenance
- Fleet Availability (Z)                    65           85        1975
- Fleet Utilization (Z)                     58           85        1975
- Average No. of Days
Immobilized/Vehicle/Year                 162           55        1975
- Average Maintenance Cost/Bus/Year
(Dinars)                            2,273         1,577        1975
B. TGM Operations
1) Operations
- No. of Cars in Service                    22           26        1975
- Passenger Trips (million)                 16.9         19.1      1975
2)  Maintenance
- Annual Maintenance Costs/Car iu
Service (Dinars)                    6,500         1,250        1975



- 30 -
All the indicated targets have a direct impact on SNT revenues and operating
and maintenance co0ts. The detailed cost functions can only be developed
through study. This linking of operating targets and financial performance
will be done by the financial consultant to be hired by SNT in cooperation
with the technical consultants (para. 5.05), and is expected to take some
six months to complete. A set of monitoring guidelines will be proposed by
SNT. These guidelines will encompass the principal targets set out above,
but would also include manpower targets for each operation, indices of labor
productivity, budget control targets and other indicators that emerge as a
result of the economic and financial studies to be undertaken by SNT's team
of consultants.
6.23      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that not later than
April 30, 1974, a report detailing the system of performance targets, includ-
ing targets relating to financial controls, staffing, organization, urban bus
and TGM operations, traffic and maintenance vill be submitted to the Govern-
ment, the District, and the Bank/IDA for approval. SNT will report to the
Government, the District and the Bank/IDiL, every six months on the progress
in implementing the agreed targets, and review annually such program with
the Government, the District and the Bank/IDA. Assurances vere also ob-
tained that any additional Government subsidy payments to be provided SNT
in lieu of tariff adjustments would be linked to the system of performance
criteria.
C. Economic Analysis
6.24      The economic evaluation of the major investment components of pub-
lic transport improvement has been calculated in accordance with the method-
ology contained in Annex 15. The main features are summarized below:
1)   The Bus Component
6.25      Important quantifiable benefits are obtained from the three sub-
components essential for improving bus services:
(i)  upgrading of maintenance facilities;
(ii) replacement of vehicles over twelve years old; and
(iii) fleet expansion to reduce present overloading and
accommodate the anticipated traffic.
To determine economic feasibility, a comparison was made of the effects on
operating costs of building the proposed maintenance depot and replacing
the aged vehicles - as against no improvement. For expansion of the fleet,
an analysis of the investment timing was undertaken in order to assess the
delayed effects on level of ridership and operating costs.



- 3t -
6.26      Maintenance and vehicle replacement are interdependent.  Without
proper maintenance, the replacement of old vehicles would have little impact
and the serviceable life of new vehicles would be decreased by about half
that obtainable with improved maintenance. The internal economie returu of
the replacement components, assuming prior investment in improved mainten-
ance, is 19%. The analysis also shows that the investment in improved main-
tenance without vehicle replacement would be an uneconomic proposition. The
maintenance costs per vehicle rise in proportion to the average age of the
fleet even with the improved maintenance without the related investment in
fleet replacement.
6.27      Providing only proper maintenance and replacement, without increas-
ing the vehicle fleet, would mean continued overcrowding, discomfort and in-
ability to capture anticipated traffic growth. As the replacement of old ve-
hicles would be just sufficient to accommodate the present level of traffic
and future replacement needs would not be met, potential traffic would be
lost to other forms of travel. The expansion of the bus fleet, combined
with the provision of adequate maintenance, assures greater reliability of
service and lower overall costs of operation as the age composition of the
fleet declines appreciably. The incremental impact of this aspect leada to
an economic rate of return on the bus component as a whole that exceeds 29%.
The highest rate is obtained when all three sub-components are undertaken
concurrently.
2)   The TGM Railway Component
6.28      As detailed in Annex 6, the analysis of six alternative approaches
to TGM modernization shows that the replacement of present stock with new
electrically powered equipment is the least cost solution. The rate of re-
turn of this component foeuses on two main quantifiable benefits:
(i) reduction in TGM operating costs; and
(ii) foregone costs of alternative modes of transport
in the absence of the project.
The internal rate of return is calculated at about 16%. When user time sav-
ings are quantified, it rises marginally to about 17%.



- 32 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)  The Tunisian Government will -
(i)  agree with the Bank/IDA on follow-up action to be
taken in the light of the District's special policy
studies (para. 5.02);
(ii) within one year of effectiveness of the loan/credit,
agree with the Bank/IDA follow-up action to be taken
in the light of a traffic study by the Municipality
of Tunis (para. 5.07);
(iii) ensure that until the Bank has been consulted on the
conclusions of the study of transport policy to be
carried out by the Tunis District, funds will not be
committed to new arterial highway investments in the
District (para. 4.09);
(iv) compensate SNT for imposed reduced tariffs as required
under Article 23 of the SNT Statute (para. 6.12);
(v)  ensure that SNT's net annual revenue, including com-
pensation for reduced tariffs and any subsidies, on
its urban operations would cover cash operating ex-
penses including adequate maintenance plus estimated
annual debt service (para. 6.21).
(b) The Societe Nationale des Transports will -
(i)  introduce policies and training programs to improve
manpower utilization and only employ additional staff
if managerial efficiency or project execution require
hiring of specialized personnel (para. 6.04);
(ii) establish separate accounts for its urban and inter-
urban services from the beginning of fiscal year 1973
(para. 6.09);
(iii) not undertake any other new major investments for its
urban operations prior to the end of 1975 other than
those under the proposed project without first satisfy-
ing the Bank/IDA that such action would not interfere
with its obligations under the Project Agreement (para.
6.18); for the period 1976-80, submit for Bank/IDA re-
view before December 31, 1975, technical and financial
justification of its proposed five-year investment pro-
gram (para. 6.18);



- 33 -
(iv) until the national transport study is completed
undertake no major new capital investments through
borrowing for inter-urban operations vithout prior
consultation with the Bank/IDA (para. 6.19);
(v)  not later than June 30, 1975, increase its tariffs so
as to realize a net increase of 15% in its income from
urban operations (para. 6.10);
(vi) modify tariffs suitably by December 31, 1974 to eliminate
deficits on its inter-urban operations (para. 6.12);
(vii)  not later than April 30,1974, submit to the Government,
the District and the Bank/IDA for review and approval
a proposed system of performance targets (para. 6.23).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following con-
ditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit:
(a)  Appointment by the Municipality of a traffic engineering
consultant, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (paras. 4.04 and
5.07).
(b)  Appointment of all consultants to assist SNT, but the TGM
railway expert, acceptable to the Bank/IDA on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 5.06).
(c)  Promulgation of a decree, satisfactory to the Bank, estab-
lishing the Tunis District's organization, staffing pattern,
financial authority and relations with other agencies (paras.
2.14 and 5.14 (a)).
(d)  Hiring by the District of suitable counterpart staff to work
with the consultants to be provided under the project (para.
5.14 (b)).
(e)  Appointment of the consultants to assist the District under
the project (para. 5.03).
(f)  Establishment of a Technical Coordinating Committee for the
District bringing together decision-making level officials
of the interested ministries and other public agencies (para.
5.14 (c)).
7.03      On the basis of the above conditions, the project provides a suit-
able basis for a Bank loan of US$11 million on terms of 22 years including
four years of grace and an IDA credit of US$7 million on the usual terms and
conditions.






TUN!ISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBLAN PLAD.IG AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Po-n lâtion of Greater Tunîs la  l966 and 1971
Projections for 1976
(In thousanid)-
Rate of Total Anmlual
Increase                     Total
Total
1966           1966-71      1971-76           1971      1976
Sector & Comnmis
/1
Commune  of Tunis   449               4.3           4.4             55.8      69.3
Sector 1            67            4.0             3.4            82        98
2           78             3.6            3.0             93      109
3           61             4.1            3.5             74       89
4           38             5.1            4.6             49       62
5           59             4.2            3.3             73       87
6           51             4.1            4.7             63       80
7           17             8.8            6.6             26       36
8           10             5.2            9.7             13       21
9           47             4.1            4.6             58       72
10           21             5.1            7.5             27       39
~.ot declared /2       20
Other Comnmunes
La Goulette            32             5.9           6.1             43        59
Carthage                9             7.2            5.2            13        17
Sidi Bou Said           3             5.7           4.8              4         5
La Marsa               19             2.7            5.1            22        28
Hamman-Li1             26             5.5           4.1             34        42
Radés                  17             5.1           5.5             22        29
Ben Arous              13             6.5            6.6             18       25
M,grine                 9             9.1            8.3            14        21
Ez-Zahra               10            6.7            5.9             14        19
L.e Bardo              41             6.0            5.1            55        71
Manoube                19             7.1            6.7             2        38
Ariana                 33             6.3            5.5            45        59
Adjustmenlts                                                        -1         2
Total Greater Tunis  760              5.0            5.0           888    1,128
/1  Does not include "not declared' category.
/2  20,000 "not declared" persons include primarily military personnel living
in Sector 5.  This numrber is assumed to remain constant through 1976.
,c%iirce:  Tunis 72-70; Ministere de l'Economie Nationale, Direction de 1'.Aenagemenf
du lerritoire.






Page 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT UR<bAii PLANi]ING AN) PUBLIC TRAiPSORT PRJECT
THE METMDPOLITAN TUNIS DISTRICT
Legal arnd Institutional Framework
la        The District of Tunis is a Tunisian public agency (établissement
public) with independent legal status and financial autonormy.  Its geo-
graphical limits are the same as those oae the Governorate of Tunis, the
governorates being the principal units oa  regional administration.  iiile
the decrees establishing the District set forth a somewhat more complex
institutional structure than that prevailing in other governorates, the
District and its bodies have basically the same status as comparable, thougn
poorly staffed, bodies in the other governorates.
2.        Under the decrees establiehing the District, the highest authority
is the Council (Conseil Superieur) chaired by the Prime &inister and con-
sisting oaf the M    fètesothe Interior, of Planning, of Finance, of the
National EcOnOny, of Cultural Affaira and Information, of Public Lerks and
Ilousing, and the Governor-elayor of Tunis, who also provides the secretariat.
Its mandate is to approve development plans for the District, decide on the
prograimuing of public investments in the area, and to act on the suggestions
submîtted to it by the District's Board (Conseil d'Administration).  The latter
is chaired by the Governor-Mayor, and includes the chairmen oa the Municipal
Councils of the Commnes in the Listrict, ten representatives of the Municipal
aouncil of the City of Tunis-, and two representatives of unincorporated areas.
Its mandate ie to orient and coordinate the public investments made in the
District.  There is aiso a Consultative Comd.ttee consisting of representatives
of the Nieo-Destour Party, of national and regional bodies, and other persons
whose participation is thought desirable by the Governor-Mayor. In practice,
it is expected that the Council will retain all essential powers of decision.
3.        This range of bodies leaves one important gap:  a structure to bring
together representatives of the ministrîes and autonomous public corporations
to discuss common problems and resolve issues, thus obviating their submission
to the ministerial level in the Council. The establishment of a Technical
Coordinating ComÉittee chaired by the Director General of the District is
envisaged to close this gap. (See Chart 7660 for the organization of the District.)
4.        Tunisian legislation and decrees on the District provide that it
shall have a role of coordination, orientation and control.  Its basic purposes
are to study problems of urban development and investment, and to plan and prograr..
public investments in the Tunis area. The Governor-Mayor is responsible for
directing its staff and preparing development strategies for the area to be
submitted to the CJounci1, after approval by the Board.



Page 2
5.        The Tunisian decrees are presented at a high level of generality,
and their lack of detail makes it difficult to discern the intended authority
of the District. In response to the Governnent's request, the Bank assisted
in clarifying the matter, and tne Governient has decided to establish three
directorates responsible for  (a) studies and planning,  (b) prograimidng and
budget, and (c) supervision.
6.       T-he Planning and Studies Directorate will prepare medium. and long-
term plans for the development of the Tunis area and studies on public IOlicyC
issues affecting the area.  It will review project proposais by the technical
ministries previous to their incorporation in the capital budget of the state
for the Tunis area. It will also carry out or supervise the execution of
identification and feasibility studies for public investments or investment
programs. The P rogramming and Budget Directorate wiill participate in the
preparation of the public investment budget for the Tunis area, in cooperation
with the Planning Ministry and the technical ministries. The budget docunent
submitted to the Parliament will report the proposed projects as lile items
in the budgets of the executing mi.nistries, and is expected to contain an
information annex on the investment program for the District.  In the case of
state subsidies to autonomous puDlic corporations for projects in the area,
the District will conclude project agreements with each agency. The Supervision
Directorate will check to ensure the conformity of projects being executed with
plans agreed, will exercise a general supervisory authority over the activities
within the District of three autonomous public land corporations currently
being established to buy, improve and sell land for housing, industrial and
tourism purposes, and will supervise the granting of building permits in the
T'unis area.
7.        The District's administrative budget is subject to approval by the
i3oard and the Council. As in the case of all local authorities, the Ministry
of the Interior retains the right to check and supervise the District's
budget. In concept only an administrative budget and not a capital budget
is intended.  while the District may receive state subsidies and is authorized
to borrow, its capacity to raise revenue for projects and programs it wishes
to promote is limnited by its lack of authority to levy taxes. A fiscal and
financial policy study to be carried out by the District could lead to change
in this respect.
The staffing pattern for the District's professional staff was
discussed during negotiations. By January 1975, the District is expected
toa have a minimum professional staff of four fiscal/financial experts,
three urban economists, three physical planners, three engineers, two public
administration experts, one attorney, and one sociologist/demographer.  In
addition, there wil! be a irector General, a person who must be of con-
siderable stature and experience if the District is to succeed in fulfilling
its mandate.



ANNEC 2
Page 3
The District's eW>rk Program: Septenber 1973 - Decenber 1975
9.        The District's work program (see Appendix )  can be conveniently
divided into three portions: conti-niing responsibilities, special policy
studies, and proiect preparation work. The most important continuing
responsibility will be the elaboration and updating of urban development
strategies for the etropolitan area: defining options, proposing land
use patterns, infrastructure development, identifying public investment
projects of iLmediate interest to the District, and reviewing and preparing
public policies and administrative procedures affecting the area. In
addition to this work by the Planning and Studies Directorate, the ProgrammLng
and Budget Direct jrate will participate closely in the preparation of the
public investoene budget for the area a posteriori in 1974 and fully in 1975
and subsequent years. The Supervision Directorate has, by defi.nition,
exclusivel;y continuing functions in its review of projects against agreed
plans, cooperation wîth the land corporations, and supervision of building
peruits.
10.       D)uring the two-year life of the technical assistance to be proviaed
under the project, the District will carry out epecial policy studies on
housing, fiscal and financial issues at the local level, and urban transport
policies and tariffs.  Feasibility studies for low-income housing, industrial
sites and services and on the future of the port zone will also be prepared.
The Consultant Experts
il.       Technical assistance to the District will be financed jointly by
the UNDP and the BaUk/IDA under the project.  Its purposes will be to strengthen
the capacity o! the Tuniaian staff of the District, and to assist in carrying
out the District's work program, especially the preparation of project identi-
fication and feasibi-ty studies.  A budget for tbis assistance is contained
in Table 1 of this Annex. UNDP and Balc/IDA funds will be drawn dbwn for the
component in proportion to the participation of the two agencies in its total
coet.  The technical assistance will be provided through consultants, who vill
maintain a core team of seven (Chie£ Technical Adviser, Economist, Urban
E»onouist/Planner, Hou&ing and SLte & Services Expert, Financial/Fisca:l
AnIalyst, Transport planner/Engineer, Civil Engineer)in Tunis for the full two
years of the project.  In addition, 145 man mn=ths of consultants on special
short-term assignments will be providad, especially for feasibility studies.
Some of the short-term assignments are expected to be subcontracted to Tunisian
consulting firms.-
Training of District Personnel
12.       TrairnAg of the District's personnel by the foreign consultants will
take place principally through daily cooperation on specific tasks, but a
nominal anmunt of money for fellowships is included in the UNDP project.  The
budget for individual taaks has been calculated on the assumption that a



LÀNN3 2
page 4-
certain amount of t±m, over and above normal allocations, viIl be required
because of the consultanta' continuing training responsibilities. 'fie Chief
Technical Adviser vill evaluate training needs and prepare a detailed
training progran. Re vill prepare special reports to the Bank on the con-
sultants' training activities and on the progress achieved ia transferring
consultant responsibilities to the Tunisian staff.



lUJIS DISTPICT BBAS: PLA..:-iS       PUBLIC  R-       ? R TPPE?
Cost Estimates   Dlistrict Studies Prcgr.r
Man Hontha                              in  D                              in'US$ eguivelent                 % Foreign
staff      Consultant              Local     Foreign      Total           Local      Foreisn     Total            Exchanae
I - DISTRICT'S CONTINUING RESPONSIBILITIES
a. Gênerai Urben Strategy and
Planning Studies                      90            90               10,0O0 /     176,175    194,175          4l1379     405,000    446,379
b. Coordination and Prograoming
Exorcises                            .38            38                1,600        74,385      81,985         17,471      171,000   18,471
Il - SPECIAL POLICY STUDIES
c.  Housing Policy Study                     30           30                6,000         58,725     64,725         13,793      135,000    148,193
d.  Fiscal Policy Study                      25           25                5,000        48,937      53,937         11,494      112,500    123,994
e.  Transport Policy Studies               _              40                  -           78,300     78.300                     180.000    180.000
183          223               36,600       436,522    473,122          84,137   1,003,500  1,087,637               59.9
Ill - PROJECT PREPARATION
f   Housing/Site and Services               -             50               28,27.5       46,980      75,255         65,000      108,000    173,000
g.  Industrial Sites                         _            25               10.875         29,362     40,237         25,000       67,5QO      92,500
h.  Land Use Redevelopment of
Old Port Area                          _             10               10.875            -       10,875         25.000          -        25.000
85              50,025         76,342    126,367         115,000     175,500    290,500               10.5
IV - SURVEYS. DATA ANALYSIS 3                    25            5                7,850          1,957      9,807         18.046        4,500      22,546              0.3
V - LOCAL STAFF (SEMI PROFESSIONAL,
SECRETATALR-                                            264               19,920                    19,920         45,793          -        45,793
VI SCHOLARSHIPS                                                                                 8,ooo      8,o00                     18,000      18,000
VII LOCAL SUPPORT OF CONSULTANTS  4               -           _                20,000            _       20,000         45,977          -        45,977
VII EQ 4PMENT AND VEHICLES                        -           -                 3,000          10,657    13,657           6,897      24,500      31,397               1.5
SUWBOTAL                          .    77          313              137,395         533,478   670,873        315,850   1,226,000  1,54i,850               72.1
IX  CONTINGENCIES                                 48          31               13,746          53,38    67,o94           31,600     121,600    153,200               7.2
TOTAL COST                             525         144              151,141         586,826   737,967        347,450   1,347,6oO  1,695,050              100.0
s~~ ~      ~       ~~                       ~~~~              , -   . .-   .-
lotes: Basis for Calculation
A     D 200/man months of higb level District Staff (includes salaries, overheads) US$4,500/man month of Foreign Conisultant and
$2,500/man month of Local Consultant time.
2   85 man moriths of Consultants of which 46 man months Local Consultants, 39 man months Foreign Consultants.
/    5 man months of Consultants of which 4 man months Local Consultants, 1 man month Foreign Consultants.
L4  Local support costs of Consultants, local transport, supplies, office wverheada.                                                                                                              P   ,
March 31, 1973






AlNZE  2
Page 6
CHART 7660(R)
TUNIS DISTRICT
ORGANIZATION CHART
HIGHER COUNCIL
CONSEIL SUPERIEUR
CONSULTATIVE                     BOARD 0F DIRECTORS
COMMITTE
GOVERNOR-MAYOR
TECHNICAL
COORDINATION
__                            ~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEE
DIRECTOR-
GENERAL
PLTUDIES AND                 I PROGRAMMING              .              SUPERVISION
PLANNING                                          i
DIVISION                            DIVISION                            DIISO
- PREPARATION OF DEVELOPMENT       -COOPERATION WITH PLANNING          - GENERAL SUPERVISION
PLANS FOR THE TUNIS AREA           MINISTRY IN PREPARATION OF          OF EXECUTION OF PUBLIC
THE STATE INVESTMENT BUDGET        INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
- ESTABLISHMENT OF MEDIUM            FOR THE DISTRICT.
TERM PUBLIC INVESTMENT            - PARTICIPATION IN APPRO-           - RELATIONS WITH PUBLIC
PROGRAMS                           VAL OF CAPITAL BUDGETS              LAND AGENCIES
OF COMMUNES IN DISTRICT
- LANO USE POLICY AND PLANS                                        -   - SUPERVISION OF
-AGREEMENTS WITH PUBLIC              BUILDING PERMITS
- TRANSPORTATION POLICY AND          CORPORATIONS ON STATE-
PLANS                               P INANCED INVESTMENTS
- FISCAL AND FINANCIAL POLICY
- PROJECT ANALYSES
- PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND
PREPARATION
Worid Bank-7660(R)






ANNEX 2
Page 7
Appendix
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
TUNIS DISTRICT WORK PROGRAM
Starting Date
Activity                                                       and expected
duration
I.   INITIAL PHASE AND PERMYWIENT RESPONSIBILITIES
(a)  General Urban Strategy and Planning Studies                   September 1, 1973
for the duration
of the project
(i)       Preliminary Tasks:
= .  final review and determination of the timetable
to carry outi tlhe work program of the District
establishirng the methodological framework to serve as
reference for all future studies, whether theoratically
or practically oriented
review of existing date and studies, including review
and synthesis of the data and results of the studies
of the UNDP Tunis-Carthage Project
-    collection of additional data deemed required, and
synthesis of existing and additional data
spatial analyses of distribution of existing land uses
analysis ce'  sf rn.---- ne; ,_-._ (.
sewerage, teleco2Ir.uuicatlc,ns) and of public services
(education, health, street cleaning and lighting, and
-.rbage :ollection)



ANEX 2
Page 8
Appendix
compilation and review of socio-economic characteristics
o the population
analysis of characteristics, and origin-destination data
on transport movements in the District in relaition with
spatial distribution of residence and emplayment, by
population and job category.
Planning & Design Activities:
analysis of land use in areas considered for future
residentiai or industrial develop7ectt, cla3sified by
type, infrastructure needs and order of priority
synthesis of all sector studies, cotipleted. or in
process, pertaining ta the plannîng of the overall
areà of the tmistrict
-    -proposaàls for short term -i%protveents to existir.g land
use and Infrastructure, and for changes in pattern -
of development proposed previously
-    review of the role of the Tunis port area, its £uture
with regard to development of La Goulette and proposals
for future utilization of the port area and adjoining
warehouse 20nés; definiticn cf the detailed l-ar use
studies to follow; coordination of those studies with
studies pertaining to the South-East and downtown
areas of the Municipality of Tunis



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Appendix
proposals on the choice of high priority site (or sites)
for future industrial and warehouse developments
synthesis of the above-mentioned analyses and proposals
for the purpose of elaboration of an urban development
strategy for the District and proposals for suitable
infrastructure standards
definition of terms of reference for the Special Policy
Studies
deffn{tion of t.crwis of reference for the follow up
feasibility studies referred to under paragraph III
of this Scliedule.
(b)  Coord  ilt Fon and Frogramaing Exercise of the public investment
principuL.s set forth in the District Orgazization
Decree.
(1)       rhcr i974 (a posteriori):
-    icXAertification of items to be subject to further study
in tlha principal sectoral operations in the proposed
1974 budget
-    anaJ.ysis. of the points of conflict and preparation of
additional studies.
(il)      For subseque'nt years:
-    iin view of the studies carried out under (a) above,
identification of the principal sectoral operations
to be considered for inclusion in the rublic investment
budget for the year



AIeiNEX 2
Page 10
Appendix
identification of optimxal actions; definition of their
prl.ority allocatl.on and spatial distribution
study of provisional proposals by ministrien and public
agencies
adaptation in terms of coordination and optimization of
actions; subsequently, adjustment of budget proposals
presentation of an integrated annual investment budget.
(c)  Supervision
-    finalization of detailed procedures defining the
District's supervisory role
-    supervision of public and private industrial and
residential real estate development undertakings
supervision of the granting of permis de lotir
and building permits
supervision of the traffic engineering and control
studies to be undertaken by the Municipality of
Tunis to relieve the immediate and medium term
traffic probiems; integration of these studies in
the transport policy framework to be developed
under paracraph 11(c) of this Schedule
supervision of the work to be done by consultants to SNT
in recommending changes to the existing fare structure;
integration of this work in the policy framework to be
developed ueder paragraph II(b) of this Work Program



ANNEX 2
Pare 11
Appendix
-    supervision of all studies, including faasibility
sttudies, in pro:ess-or contemplated, dealing with
problems relevant to the development of the District.
II. SPECIAL POLICY STUDIES
(a)  Study of housing problema in the District. This study will         February 1, 1974
13 months
include in particular:
-    analysis of population growth
-    census of dvellings; analysis of housing conditions and
costs in relation with socio-economic characteristics
of the population
-    review of past public programe and actions by the private
sector
-    dofinitions of options (improvement, renewal, new site
dcxv.1e,pinr:ut)
-    estimates of costs (infrastructure, superstructures,
amenities)
-    identification of economic and financial constraints
-    suggested short and medium-term programs.
This study shall comprise all the elements justifying the prograiming
alternatives proposed to the authorities.
(b)  Study of Fiscal Problems at the District level:                  Aprfl 1, 1974
8 Donths
-    identification of the impact of the present systems
on land use patterns
-    definition of alternatives and suggestions for
improvements.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Appendix
May 1, 1974
(c)  Urbau Transport Policy Study:                                    - uztha
-    examinatior of present pricing and charging policies
for public and private transport, vitht-%.n th^. f.rk
of national policy on the subject
-    review of the role of the private sector in providing
transportation and of the implications of encouraging
competition in the transport sector, within the framework
of national policy on the subject
-    proposal of general or specific public transportation
measures to be taken to meet to the maximum extent
the needs of the customers
recommendations on measures and projects giving priority
to public transport, particularly street parking regulatiors
and reserved bus lanes
-    proposaln on public transport tariff structures to
encourù-ît public transport patronage and lead to a
more rational land use pattern
-    recommendation of transport development programs based
on the above genc:al policy proposals.
III. FEASIBILITY STUDIES
(a)  Sectoral Study on aousing:                                     November 1, 1974
9 mont s
(i)       Study of one or more areas of the Municipality of
Tunis Medina:
review of existing studies on socio-economic conditions
and on the legal status of land



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Appendix
-    critical evaluation and completion of existing 8tudies
on infrastructure and superstructure
development of necessary cost estimates
»  -    financial and economic studies
-    definit.on of alternative programs.
(hi)      Study of spontaneous housing developments:
studies of general socio-economie conditions (wiLl be
based on the data obtained by the housing study of
the District and the surveys to be catried out)
-    definition of social and environmental typologies
-  -    identification of one or more dynamic zones capable of
being adequately supplied with infrastructure and public
services to improve living conditions of the resident
population
-    comprehensive study of ways of improving this zone; if
reducing its density is recommended, the identification
and development of one or more new area-; will have to
be considered concommitantly.
(ili)     Study of other sites for low inca«me housing development:
-    identification of suitable areas for this type
of residential development
-    determination of areas of commercial activity
<  -    determination of minimal infrastructure and public
services requirements



ANNEX 2
Page 114
Appendix
c0t estimates
study of financial and economic factors
-    program for executioti.
(iv)      Synthesis of the above three elements (renewal, upgrading
and new site development) into a three-pronged
implementation program consistent with resource
constraints.
(b)  Feasfl' l.ty stu 'y o- hign priority sites for industrial and         January 1, 1975
6 uonths
arehouse development, to be based on analyses carried out under paragraph
(a) of this Schedule:
-    study of development alternatives
-    detailed study
-    preparation of land use plans and cost estimates, including
roads, water, sewerage and electricity
-    financïal and economic study.
(c) Redevelopment study of the old port area and adjoining warehouse April 1, 1975
5 aonths
one, to be based on prelimninary analyses developed in paragraph I(a)
f this Schedule:
-     tsudy of redevélopment/urban renewal in the old port
area, its relationship to land use in the adjacent
area and in the city center of the Municipality of
Tunis
-    preliminary study of economic and social costa and
benefits of redevelopment.



ANNEX 2
paze 15
Appendix
Consultants and permanent personnel to be
appointed for the purpose of assisting the
District in carrying out Part C of the Project
(a)  Consul.tants to be appointed before the Effective Date:
Seven experts
-    Chief Technical Advisor
-    'Economist
-    Urban Economist/Planner
-    Rousing and Site & Services Expert
-    Financial/Fiscal Analyst
-    Civil Engineer (Infrastructure and Public Utilities)
-    Transportation Planner/Engineer
(bl  Cetnrterypa-rt   er-ci.nel te 'c  appointed before the Effective Date:
Six professionais
-    Two Urban Economicts
One Physical Planner
One Economist/Financial Analyst
-    Two Civil Engineers
(c)  Additioxial personnel to be appointed no lateT than January 1, 1975:
Eleven professionals
-    One Urban Economist
-    Two Physical Planners
-    Three Economists/Financial Analysts
-    Two Public Administration Experts
-    One Civil Engineer
-    One Sociologist/Demograplher
-    One Attorney.






ANNEX 3
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
PUBLIC TRANSPORT IN TUNIS
1.        About 75% of all vehicular passenger trips in Aetropolitan Tunis
are made by bus or train.  The services provided by SNT account for over 90%
of all public transport trips by bus and train and nearly 70% of all passenger
trips by all modes. The following is a description of SNT bus services and
the TGM railway which serves the northeast corridor of the Tunis metrcpolitan
area.
SNT - Bus Operations
2.        The urban bus fleet consists of 355 vehicles of which 263 are
required for daily service.  Of the total number of vehicles, 24 are more
than 15 years old, 73 are more than 12 years old, and 84 vehicles are less
than 2 years old.
3.      The SNT operates frequent service (seeMap 10422) from the city center
to points within a radius of about 8 km. Infrequent services are provided
(principally during peak hours only) between Tunis and surrounding villages
up to a distance of 30 km.  Regular service is also available throughout the
day to La Marsa, 21 km to the east and to Tebourba, a market town 35 km to
the west of Tunis.
4.      Except over short distances in the city center, the service is well
managed and is not subject to major delays. Operationally, the principal
difficulties arise from:
(1) overcrowding - the scheduled service is inadequate to
satisfy the present level of traffic demand, especially
during peak periods;
(2)  lack of vehicle availability - many buses are off the
road because of lack of spare parts and the inadequate
capacity of the single depot at Bab Saddoun to handle
mechanical defects and accident repaire.
5.      Most of the SNT-operated buses are overcrowded, with few seated
passengers and many standees. The common ratio is 19 seated and 71 standing.
There are no restrictions against overcrowding and in practice, during peak
hours, vehicles are filled to about 10% above capacity. 1/
1/    This estimate is based on a detailed working survey carried out by
the BCEOM consultants in March and April, 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
The Maintenance System
6.      Prior to June 1972, there was no regular preventive
maintenance carried out on buses, parts being replaced only when they
became defective. A substantial number of vehicles have become
permanently immobilized because of the lack of spare parts. In early
1972, 90 vehicles were in the depot awaiting parts, representing a
permanent "hard core" of unavailable buses, in addition to the casualties
of daily operation. Some immobilized vehicles are unlikely to enter
service again, and are held mainly as a source of spare parts.
Bus Depot Requirements
7.      Deplorable conditions exist at the bus depot at Bab Saddoun.  The
area of the depot, approximately 37,000 m2, is too saall for the conduct
of workshop activities and normal maintenance.    Buses arriving and depart-_
ing throughout the day circle the workshop area, causing dangerous
and unpleasant working conditions. Blocked vehicles and delayed
departures are common. The road surface is too weak to withstand the
pressure of continuous vehicle movement and consequently the area has become
scarred vith oil, ridges and potholes. The workshop areas are, however, well
equipped and the removal of the maintenance activities elsewhere will facilitate
a more rational layout of vorkshop activities at Bab Saddoun.
8.        The ceiling, walis and floor area of the new depot at Cherguia were
completed in Decenber 1972. A special wing has been built for the servicing
of tourist taxis and rental cars. Although the administrative bloek and
public services have not yet been provided, a temporary maintenance block
equipped with pits is now in operation. There is also a temporary building
housing an automatic washing machine. A fleet of 83 vehicles is nov main-
tained at Cherguia which, when completed, vill provide parking space for
150 buses in the open and 100 under cover. Parking bays vill be provided
according to the routes on which the buses will be sent out to operate.
Special provisions have been made for parking the exitîng fleet of buses.
The depot will also serve the SNT's fleet of inter-urban buses.
9.      While detailed designs have not yet been prepared for the depot at
Bir Kassa, the already standard layout of the R.A.T.P. (Paris Transport)
bus system will be adopted. A site has beei purchased and no further land
costs will be incurred.
10.     All three depots will be operating at capacity before 1980.  The
construction of an additional depot operating by 1981 vill be required to
provide continuing adequate bus service. The most appropriate site for this
fourth depot would be in the area designated for industrial use, west of
Cite Exouhour. SNT would then possess depots sited north, west and south
of the city, conveniently located for buses to enter service from the outer
terminals.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The TGM Railway
11.     Built in 1902 and operated by SNT, the TGM is a double track
suburban railway serving the northeast corridor of the Tunis metropolitan
area and linking it with the center of Tunis by a 9 km long causeway
crossing the lake. The line continues up to La Marsa, about 19 km from
the central business district.
12.     While the northeast corridor, with a population of 82,000 in 1971,
does not demonstrate a very rapid growth rate, j/ the antiquated TGM
continues to show a remarkably high load per car (68-75) and an annual
operating surplusa2/ of D 129,000. Between 1963-1971, total passengers
transported climbed from 11 million to 16 million. During the peak hour
(between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m.), the number of trains is 6-7 per hour, with
an average of 3,000 passengers per hour for the whole time.
Tariffs
13.     The Tunis bus system is divided into three zones:
(i) An urban zone within the area of the main boulevards,
consisting of the entire area within a line drawn
between The Port - Pont de Carthage - Montfleury -
Bab Saddoun - Place Pasteur. All journeys from within
this area to the border cost 30 millimes.
(ii)  A zone peculiar to circular service No. 28.  This
service follows the line of the boulevards between
Montfleur) and the Pont de Carthage, with the southern
section   of the loop including the suburb of La Cagna.
This route operates a circular service ln each direction
and is subject to a flat fare of 40 millimes for all
journeys.
(iii) A suburban zone beyond the boulevards extending to the
respective terminals of the various routes. Within
this zone a graduate fare scale is in force.
14.     There has been no change in the fare system since January 1969.
At that time, a marginal fare increase (on the average 15%) was granted
affecting only the lowest rates. The minimum fare at a single journey rate
is 30 millîmes (3 tickets); thereafter an additional 10 millimes charged
for each fare stage. The ordinary fare at single journey rate accounts
for 43% of bus passenger journeys and 46% of TGM passenger journeys. Certain
classes of passengers are carried half-fare, among them being students up to
28 years of age and who account for 34% of bus passengers and 25% on the TGM.
1/  5.2% over the 1965-71 period and an expected 5.6% between 1971 and
1976, compared to rates of 7-8% in other suburbs.
2/  Before depreciation which is shown to be  D 28,000 in SNT books.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
The TGH and Routes 20 and 20A (Table 20)
15.     Both these services operate between Tunis and La Marsa, TGM
across the lake, and Route 20 via the north shore.   TGM has three fare
stages:  Tunis - LaGoulette., La Goulette - Carthage Annibal, and
Carthage Annibal - La Marsa.  The combined distance of the two latter
stages are equal to the first one, as it is impracticable to place a fare
stage in the center of the lake. Route 20 has six fare stages, with a
minimum fare of 40 millimes and an addition of 20 millimes for each
subsequent stage. For both routes, the level of reduced fares is
approximately two-thirds of the normal fare instead of one-half, as on the
normal bus system. The through single fare on Route 20 is 140 millimes,
but on TGM it is only 90 millimes. The return fares are, however,
comparable: 175 millimes on TGM and 180 millimes on the bus. There is
also a first-class facility on TGM available for a supplementary charge of
50%, making the first-class single through fare on TGM, 140 millimes,
equivalent to the through fare on the bus.
16.     In their recent report, the BCEOM consultants proposed an
amalgamation of sections to simplify the ticket system and to raise an
additional 13% in revenue. As ordinary fares on the bus system account for more
than 70% cf.the revenue, some adjustment must be made.  But BCEOM made no
allowance for loss of passengers as a result of increased fares. At
present, more than 50% of fare paying passengers travel at a rate of
40 millimes or below. Furthermore while the law establishing SNT states
that SNT will be compensatel by the State for losa of revenue due to free
or reduced travel rates, the Government has not yet granted compensation.
Modification of the present tariff system as part of the general improve-
ment of SNT operations will require further analysis.



ÂU2V 4
Page 1
TUNI8 DIST£OT UR3AN PLÂN1ING AND PUBLIC TRNORT PRJECT
Bi0T TaFlIC àâLYB   AND Y0RZCU8s
Introduction
1.        ONT records cover theyears 1963-72 (Table 1).  During 1968-69
two important changes vere instituteds  (1) tares were increased on
Ja«uary 1, 1969 and (ii) service by trolley-bus vas phased out and
replaoed by bus ervices. I:n this annex, bus and T¢M operations will
be treated separately and trends identified for oach o! thei.
Traffic on Bus Notwork/
2.        Althcugh bus puasengers have always acoounted for a signi-
fioant perceutag  of all S1T patronage (e.g. 89% in 1972), very little
analysis o! passenger trends in bus traffic had been done prior to
project appraisal. A revisw o! the 1963-72 statistios provided some
information on onaitivity of patronage to lares and quality o! service.
3.       Patronage data show a relativoly srooth growth until 1968-69
at which time a substantial drop occurred and from which no recovery
han yet boer, demonstrated (se  Chart 7661). A detailod malv'is of
the changes in servi  brought about by BNT in 1968 and 1969 i. of
particular relevao. for plann:ng  future changes in bus service and
for.caating their probable offsct. Orer 18 monthe, four major changes
to the service ver. mades
June 30, 1968s Closing of first trolley bus line
January 1,. 1969: Fare increases (15% average)
January 31, 1969# Clohing o! second trolley bus lin.
Dooember 31, 1969s Closing o! last trolley bus line
Although SNT statistica are not very reliable, th.y do provide reasonable
estimates of ordors of mgnitude for changs occurred.
4.        The tiret trolley bu. lin. to b. cloaed carried approximately
35% of ail traffic on trolley buses. Alter substitution of buses, only
h7% of previous ridera on the lin. continued to une public transport.
Reportedly, trolley buses offored more reliabl  service than buses, for,
already at that tims, the latter were poorly maintained and suffered
froquent breakdowns.
V  Included in the notwork are the trolley bus lines in operation until
Decomber 1969. Be. Map 10422.



ANNEX à
Page 2
5.        The second trolley bus route accounted for 35 to 36%   of
ail passengers on trolley buses. If 47% continued to use public
transport, as was the case for the tirst line, then the tare increase
resulted in a 6% drop in the number of SNT bus passengers*  The two
extreme assumiptions (O and 100% transferring to buses) would correspond
respectively to 3 and 7% dropa due to the fare increase. It seema,
therefore, that in a situation where fares were very low and a 15% net
ticrease in tares was introduced, the public was relatively more
sensitive to levels of service and comfort than to fare levels.
6.        By mid-1972, 40% of the buses on the road in the morn±ng
broke daon during thie day and 17% had to be returned to the depot for
repaire. In addition, 23% of acheduled buses were delay.d because of
minor mechanical difficulties which can be aasumed to be the sam as
8% of buses withdrawn of service. * herefore, the efficiency rate for
bus users vas close to 75%.
7.        With implementation o! the proposed project, no more breakdeowns
of buses in service will perturb scheduled operations and overcrowding will
be alleviated.  A 33% increase in efficiency and a substantial improvement
in the level of comfort should, in all likelihood, result in a 15%
increase in bus patronage. Since there han been no tare incroase since
1969, 1973 fares in real ->erms are no higher than they wers in 1969
before thq increasea . It can be expectedt therefores that a 15% fare
increas 2( as of January 1, 1975 could result #n a loue of patronage of
about 5%. The end result wfld be a 10% increa.se in bus ridorahlp by
the end Of 1975.
8.        Beyond 1975, ongoing fleet renewal and nOW oporating procoduiea
will result in the continuing improvement ot SNT operations. It in also
expected that policies favoring the use of public transport and/or
limiting the use ot private cars wïll be adopted. These two factors
cOmbined would reSult in a bus patronage growth at a rate only lightly
lower than that of the aTmis popuIatiO.rVeee Table 2). HOwJver, if fare
increase8 are in9tituted to sat:sfy SNT' s inancial requirementis, thie.
inCreases would counterbalane   the imnrovement of quality md relia-
bility of service. The end result would be a linear development of bus
ridership (see Table 2).
l/  The lesser accuracy here is due to the difficulty in disaosoclating
effects of the two changes introduced in January 1969, as exemplified
by the indetermination oe the fraction of passengers who remained on
public transport.
2/ Similar to that imposed on January l, 1969.
3/  Due to the expected rise of income in Tunis and growïng motorization.
4/  S±.'ce a corresponding losa oe  traffic can be expected.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Traffic on TGM Line
9.        Passenger trends on the TGM have been more consistent than
bus passenger trends (see Chart and Table 1) so that forecasting is
simpler. It was assumed that the past growth vould contînue and that
by the end of 1975 the project would resuat in a 10% increase over
what the patronage would have been without the project.  The rationale
behind the assumption is the same as that developed for bus operations.
While the future linear growth of bus patronage vould constitute a
substantial improvement on previcus trends refl.ecting the rapid
deterioration of bus services, the linear growth of TGM ridership after
project implemientation corresponds only to the resumption on a new basis
of trends established in the past. Table 2 shows the growth in transit
patronage with and vithout fare icereases.



ANNEX a
Page h
Table 1
TUNISIA
'T,niS DISTRICT URBANL PLANNING ANM  PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
iNT PASSEUR TRAFFIC S3STIICS
Tunis Bus and TGM Operations
('000 passengers)
?o ^d                             Rail                 Total
Trolley Bus   Autobus       Total
1963        14,h58       35,730      50,198          10,919                61,117
1?G4        14,380       42,187      55,567          11,332                67,899
1965        13,957       51.,343     65,300          12J189                77,489
1966        1L4,575      61,175      75,750          12,679                88,429
1967        1h,375       71 h47      85,822          12,502                98,324
1968        13,025       82,997      96,023          12,59B               108,621
1969         4e897       93,021      98,021          13 ,312              111,533
1970                    109,146     109,1h6         !5,67                i2h,2i3
1971                    118,325     118,326          15,739               134,065
1972                    129,623     129,623          16,257               145,880
Source: SNT Statistics.
March 29, 1973



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Table 2
TUNISIA
TUWIS DISTRICT URBLÂN PLÂNANIG AND PUBLIC TRA.PORT.PROJECT
SNT BUS AND TGt OPZRATIONS
Traffic Forscaste for Passengers 1973-1980
(milUion passengers)
BUJ            T3H            Total
WRthout Project
1973                        136.7          -16.9            153.6
1974                        145.2           17.4            162.6
1975                       1148.8           18.0            166.8
1976                        153.3           18.6            171.9
1977                        152.6           19.2            171.8
1978                        152.6           19 8            172.4
1979                        147.4           1.5/'           162.7
1980                        143.2           15.9            159.1
With Project
No Pare Increases                 With Pare Increase2/
Bis      TOM        Total          Bu                  Total
1973         136.7      16.9       153.6        136.7      16.9        153.6
1974         148.1      17.4       165.5        148.1      17.4        165.5
1975         169.5      19.6       189.1        161.4      19.1        180.5
1976        176.3       21.4       197.7        168.6      20.5        189.1
1977         186.9      22.0       208.9        175.8      21.1       196.9.
1978         198.1      22.6     -220.7         183.0      21.7        204.7
1979         210.0      23.2       233.2        190.2       22.3       212.5
1980         222.6      23.8       246.4        19?7.4     22.9        220.2
1/ It is aasuzed that by Jan=ary 1, 1979 the TGM service would finaUly
collapse and bus service would be subetituted.
ç/ Fare increases in 1975, 1977 and 1979 (15%, 15% and 10% respectively)
for buses; in 1975 (15%) for the TOM line.
Source: Bank staff estimate.
March 29, 1973



GROWTH OF SNT PASSENGER TRAFFIC
(1963-721)
Passengers
(millions>
130
110
Autobus &Trolley                                                                       0 Passengers on autobus
* passengers on buses
Periods durin9 which
trolley  us lines were closed,
'50                            /                           and fares were increased
30                                                                                                      ____ [i   i
1963        1964        1965        1966        1967         1968        1969         1970        1971         1972
World Bank - 7661                   H



Page 1
TtJNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAI PLNIMNG AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SINT ESTIM&TED NEEDS OF BUS h.C RAIL ROLLING STOCK
A. Bus Service
1.       In estim-ating needs for new rolling stock two objectives were
considered:
(i) to provide enough capacity to avoid overloading of
vehicles;
(ii) to program the expansion and renewal of the fleet
according to expected patronage and number of vehicles to
be scrapped each year.
In practice, the first objective can be achieved by making the proper number
of buses available in time and assuring that future purchases of vehicles
are well timed and large enough to avoid overloading to redevelop.
Relief of Overloading                  0
2.       By mid-1972, approxiuately nine buses vere needed to relieve over-
loading. A detailed analysis of the respective loads on ai routes shows
(Table 1) that:
(j)  ten routes are overloaded (five of which are heavily over-
loaded), and
(ii)  too many buses are scheduled for service on seven routes.
This analysis was based on the recorded number of passengers and scheduled
time on each route, a desirable bus load 1/ and the recognition that slight
over-provision of service is usually admiTted when past service was allowing
a great over capacity. To relieve overloading in 1972, 25 buses were required
on the ten identified overloaded routes, approximately 16 of which could be
withdrawn from routes to which too marz  vehicles were assigned.
3.        WhlLLe the addition of nine buses to the fleet and the reassignment
of vehicles would be sufficient to relieve overloading, these measures should
only be considered as prelixi.nary efforts to rationalize and inprove the bus
service. Itre systematic considerations are expected to be dlveloped by the
consultants assigned to SNT. Amng other tas.ca, they ehould determine which
routes are particularly inappropriate for service as currently provided.
1/    Allowing a    spare capacity on each bus.



LL3.= 5
Page 2
They are aiso expected to recomnend tc SNT management appropriate treatment
for these special routes, e.g. services with timatables even at the peaks 1/
or radical neasures such as discontinuing service.
4.       JUpon improvement in operations, a patronage increase can be expected.
Therefore the need for new vehicles cannot be based solely on projections of
ridership in absence of the project and additional needs to alleviate over-
crowding. Otherwise, the number of vehicles available for service would be
too low, overcrowding would continue and objectives of the project would not
be fully realized. Furthermnre, if one objective is to satisfy the passengers
in terms of capacity offered and reliability of service as early as possible,
attention must be paid to the achievable rate of availability of vehicle as
it evolves over time (see para. 9). A systems approach was adopted to taks
into account these factors as well as the rates of availability and efficiency,
the purchase of no vehicles in the present year and a realistic schedule of
new vehicle delivery over the years 1974-75. Two main assumptions were made:
(i)  that, given a fare increase at the end of the
project (year 1975) patronage could reach 115%
of what it would be if no project were developed;
(ii)  a relationship exists between patronage increase
and efficiency level of the bus service. 2/
The end result is the echedule of fleet expansion and renewal presented in
Table 2.
Maintenance
5.        Until Jane 1972, no regular preventive maintenance was provided
and parts were replaced only when they became defective.  As supplies of
spare parts and stores were short, an increasing number of vehicles were
imx,bilized for weeks and occasionally for months.  Some of them were held
mainly as a source of spare parts. The cumulative effect of these procedures
is as follows:
i/ UsualJ.y, no timetable is needed at any particular time of the day if the
frequency of service is higher than one bus every ten minutes.
2/  In fact, the graial, renewal of the flset was alea taken into account.
For, the efficiency level would reach its maximum by the end of 1974
when only 30 of all vebicles op service are newi, while by the end of
the project (December 1975) 52.5% of the fleet will be new.



ANiEX 5
Page 3
J neet at                       d.aY of bus I=Ùiâatîon for
Year     mid-year        minor repairs        waiting for spare
Year     (approx)        & body work            parts & stores        overhaul
1969       314              4,472                   4,019               3,175
1970       320              5,409                   3,352               3,175
1971       320             10,725                   3,210               2,489
Source: S1IT Statiatica.
6.       tr June 1972, a bus was iimobil2ized on the average for:
20 daya per year for minor repairs and boe work
10 days per year for work on the engine
10 days per year for oweriaul
to wbich som  112 dys could be addâd, ca to major breakd&,ma and delqe in
parts and atores daJvery. TIerefore oilY 50% of the fleet was avaiable
for service,  in addition, of all Teiclee startLng service in the nmrning
40% broke dovn in the day, 17% o-f vhich being returned to the depot. 1/
7.        Seriowa constraints hindering proper maintenance of the bus fleet
were the amail uize and poor layrout of the maintenance depot at Bad Saddoun. 2/
The new depot recently coqpleted at Cherguia should ease the situation. 3/
Finally, when the depot at Bir Kassa in made avafiable, regular preventive
maintenance ahoed resalt in a drastic drop in the rnwber of days per year
during which a bus in immoebized.
8.        In the future, uhorter timoes of inbilization for buases should
reoat from ehorter h1zing periodu and moh lower frequencies of breakdowns,
frequencieo of checksB, Mlnor repaire and overhau.a being increased.  The
Btandardl to be aobisd are the following:
bodg work and =.nor repairs           22.5 dars/year
work on engine                        1
overhaul                              10
breakdmins                             7
54.5 dayS/year
corresponding to an 85% rate of aafl.abi2ty, the prevailing rate in major
European cities.
9.        Setting realistic intermediate targete is difficult since the
rate of izrovemant wi.l greatly dopend on:
1/ An average of 40 per day.
2/ Aloving at best that 54% of the visits due be made.
3/ As reflected by a 68.5% rate of availability assumed to be reached
by the end of 1973.



Page 4s
(i) the degree of dilapidation of the existing fleet; and
(ii) the proficiency of the existing technical maintenance
staff.
However, considerations of the steps likely to be taken by the conèu1tants to
S!T for inproving its operations have led to the definition of the £ollowing
targets:
Rate of availability             By the
to be reached                   end of
79 - 80%.                      1974
85%                            1975
Maintenance Cost
10.      If the mid-1973 cost of maintenance per bus  (D 2,273) in set as
an index (100), it is estimated that a new bus and a bus at the end
of its economic life should r.t cost more than 20 and 75  per year, res-
pectively, in maintenance.  Daring the 12 year9 of usage, bus maintenance` cost
should evolve according to the occurrence o! overhauls.  In estimating
maintenance costs after projact implementation3 the assuuption wva  mado
that buses of the existing fleet would continue to cost 100 per year.
From 1973 to 1980 the average maintenance cost per bus0 of thé fleet voiLd
therefore vary with the age composition o! the fleet amd should
be the Pollowing:
Year                       Cost (D)
1973                     2,273  (100)
1974                     2,010  (88,4)
1975                     1,577  (69.4)
1976                     1,299  (57.2)
1977                     1,255  (55.2)
1978                     1,231  (54.2)
1979                     1,169  (51,4)
1980                     1,117, (49.2)
l/  Since it will be impossible to take them out of service to renew them
properly, and therefore they will constitute a handicap on efforts to
curtail maintenance costs.-



ANNEt 5
Page 5
B.  TGM Line
11i      The selection of the 600 DC solution iwith the corresponding
purchase of 26 cars provides a capacity 28% higher than that of the
existing equipment.  Since no substantial overload is recorded on TmGM
at present, the new equipment should pro-vide for traffic increases over
the next 7-8 years.
12.      No assumption vas made pertaining to calosing down soue stations
presently serviced by the TGM. Inter-station distances are approximately
500 m which corresponds to an average waJJdng distance of lesa than 170 m
for TGM customers (a convenience rarely available to public rail transport
usera) * These inter-station distances provent rapid service and should be
reconsidered in the future.  Two stations have already been identified for
closing. Other measures 1ill require further analysis and viil probably
necesaitate education of the general public. The technical conaultant on
TGM assigned to SNT is expected to make recomnndationi on such actions
and propose their tining and justification.
13.       TI-me saved by closing stations 1/ wil. perrit faster rotation
of trains resulting in extra capacity. Prliinary estimates i.ndicate that
the 26 car purchase to be iizanced under the project ahould sui'fice until
1985.
1/ By liniting the frequency oa  accelerations and decelerations, and
allowing bigher speeds between stations. The pbysical characteristics
of the track will be inproved iwhen the permanent way is rezdeled.



TTUNSIA                              Table 1
TUZIS DISTRICT URTJBN PLNNING AND PUBLIC TR&MPORT PPJECT
àaz5is Of S LiT Bus Remulremente
(pealt Peii.od3 01d 1972)
-                                  Ma              -iin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Âiber of buses
Desirable               nusber of       _            us
Peak Load     Desirable   nunFer of   Schedule   departures
lute  (passengers    bus load        bus         tise       by bus        uired      In    Ierease
over 901)   (passengers)  departures  (minutes)  over peak                    use
1      1,0o14           64            16         2h           h           h4         4
3.80          -              6          41          3'           6          7       (1)
3      2,'538           86           30          39           3          13                  (2)
-A       707            -              9         82           2           9         10        (1)
698           -              9          63          2            6          6
Y        396                       .5            43           3           2          3       (1)
bA    11,092            -13                     h47           2            7         5        +2
5'b      798            -             10         h4           3            5         6        (1)
5C      .230            -              3         55           2            2         3        (1)
6      1,910            _             23         56           2          21         12        +9
864                         il                                   6          7       (1)
8        944            _             il         42    -      3           5          8        (3)
9      1,llo           _             13         43           3           6          8        (2)
741 i                        9         45           3            h         3        +1
380                          5          50          2            3         3
il     i,018             _             12         41           3           6          9        (3)
v       i ,hX23 17                                35           3            7         8        (1)
577           -              7          35  .       3            3         4        (1)
14        780                          10         47           2           5          7        (2)
1 5     1,350            ^             16         40           3           7          6       +1
1à        235          86; 190        1 ; 1      102           1                     1 3       (2)
17        149           190            1          96           t           t          i
1 t5      356            86             5        109           1                      4       +j
19        396            -              5         67           2           3          3
1,358         86; 190        2 ; 7        75          2            1        1;1       (4)
i        1 7t&          86             3         8h           2           2          2
2,660                         31 h-..                 3           t5        12        +3
434                          6         117          i            6         4        +2
-24       194           190             2         i            2           1          2       (1)
-, :     180                          1         100           1           I          1
608                          4         .122         1            4         .3
; l      394                 .        3          89          2.           2          2
28     22,936            86           35          52           2          20         16       *4
29;>      319                          4          22           5           i.         2       (1)
30        815                         10          52           2           6          5- 
-41       107          190             t         116          1            1          1
666           86             8          56          2         .5           5
122          190             1         103          i            i
"229    .                    2         7h           2            1
5   h1            61,                      45          2            1          1
184           86             3         52           2-           2         2
54           64             t         49           2        I  i          1
170          190             1         137          1        i  1          2       .  )
2t ;'95;       !             5'        4            3            2         2
148          1 c'0           1         135          1 .          1         2        (1)
:iource: . BC~fOM4 Rfport, 1972                                           TotaL            +25; (30



-ANÂNIE S
-TU                                 Table 2
TUINI8 DISTRICT UEBAN PLANN}ING AND PULIO TRLPORT PR?JECT
SUT Fleet Reewal and lezangion ProgEam
1973     1972s,    1975     197      1977     1,978     1279     19&
Vehicles required for
all scheduled operatians
on January 1            272/1   287        311      339       35h      359      384       399
AdLfitonal veliioles
required to accoodate
groewthdwng the year   15          24       28        15       15       15        15     . 15
Vehicles required as of
December 31             287       311      339      354       369      384      3o99     414
Availability rate 2
achieved by December
31 (%)                  68.5à   79.5       85.0     85.0     85.0      85.0     85.0     85.0
Fleet required by
December 31             419       392      399      416       434      452      469       487
?leet actually avail-
able on Juuary 1        293       293      392      399       416      434      452       469
v.c1les to be replaced
(over 12 yeara)            °        0 A    10h        25        8       21        33       23
Fleet after scrappirng   293      293      288      374       408!     413      419       446
Vehieles to bepureh _              99       111       42       26        39       50       41
Cruailati.ve total of
purchases                          99      210      252       278      317      367       4O0e
L2L ÂA  of iid-1972e 253 bues ire  achduled, and to alleviate overloding  ine   tional
buses were required. Because of increasing needs the total of 262 vehicles schedoled
in 1972 correspond  to 272 on 1-1-73.
Z_  Fraction of the fleet actually avaale for scheduled service.
13  Reflecting the inprovezunte introdaced by the new SNT ma      nat;  as opposed to 58%
in old conditions.
4  In the years 1973 and 1974, no vehicle should be discarded, even if n-Dre thaan 12 y&s
old, in order to have as many vehicles as possible avafl.able for schoduled serùices.
1   All purchases in 1973 were postponed in anticipation of IBRD financing of fleet
replacewnt and expansion in 1974 and 1975.
Source: Bank staff estimate.






A`rNE 6
Page 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTEICT UIDAN îN1   ÂN PUB   TRANSPORT PR1JECT
ANALYSIS O THE TGM RA::WPL Y LI,3 MD=R`IZATIOII PLAN
I.  Introduction
1.       The northeaat corridor served by the TQ3 railway covers tour
comunes aith a total 1973 population of approx4ratoly 92,000, an
increase of over 10,000 fro 1971. The coune of La Goulette has been
groUing uteadily at nome 6$ p.a. and is expect4d to daintain tbi8 pao,,
che in large measre to its ezpandng port and related activitiea. The
populations of Carthage   d Sidi Bou Mid sbould foloo linear trenda,
ihile La Maroa, ,bioh gre, ulowly over the 1966-71 poriod should experience
more rapid grovth in the future, vith the inereaaed  iphasis on the
development of touriet areas to the northeast. Ourrent and projected
growth rates are as follovwes
1971         Growth Rates (%)
Population      i966-7i   1971-76
('000)                 (exDected)
La Goulette    -43                  5.9        6.1
Carthage               13           7.2        5.2
Sidi Bou Said           4           5.7       1&.8
La Marsa               22           2.7
82          5.4        5.9
Source: Tunis 72-76, op. cited.
2.       The northeaut corridor contains &ixed populations of the lover
and high.r socioeconc î    ;tra.  The tour mmicipalities exhubit a
vide range of inearne distriabuoti.au seen in the following table:
Income D.stribution (%)
Economic
Strata                               Sidi Bou
(D/aonth)    La Goulette   Carthage    Said    La Marsa   N.3.  Tuni8
10-22 .48.5                  39.}      46.5      52.8     48.2  43.8
22-35           28.6         17.3      25.5      20.9     24.7  30.1
35-60           19.5         26.9     17.5      18.6      20.2  20.2
60 &  ,         3.14         16.7      10.5       7.7      6.9   5.9
100         100       100       100       100   100
Source: Tunis 72-76, op. cited.



6
Page 2
3.        Projecting current trends, Carthage and *3idi Bou Said are
expected to contain even higher concentrations of the top income groupi/
while the grawth rat-es of the lower income population should be higher
in La Goulette and La Marsa. 2/
4.        Ihe three cozmmrcial centers 3/ which serve the northeast
corridor are inadesuate to meet the neeUs of the local population,
resulting in numerous person trips to the center city.  Traffic from the
outside to the northeast corridor is also substantial, for the corridor
has traditionally been a conter of educational institutions for the Tunis
metropolitan area.
II. The TGM Railway Line
5.       hTe TGM line, running on a double track, links the suburban
northeast corridor with the center of Tunis by a 9 ka long causeway
crossing Lake Turis.  The built-up area, running fron the Port of
La Goulette to La Marsa, extends about 10 additionl kmb. The lino was
built in 1902. Its rolling stock is 60 years old and is not expected to
last beyond five years. W.th 17 stations, separated by distances
frequently lesa than 550 m., the line is about 400 m away from the coast-
line. On the Tunis aide, +the TGM line has two stations: Tunis Marine at
the entrance of the city and the terminal at Place d'Afrique 4/ where TGM
passengers transfer to buses or reach their final destination on foot.
6.        The present TGM operation is carried out by nine three-car trains.
During the winter, only seven three-car sets are in regular operation.
The present schedule, including stops and coasting, is as follows:
Tunis Marine - La Marsa          36 min.
La Marsa - Tunis Marine          36 min.
72 min.
Layover at La I4arsa              1 min.
Time required for round trip    73 min.
During peak hours, there are only five departures from Ia Marsa and two
additional from Carthage, using the nine available sets.
1/  Their expected annual growth rates between 1970 and 1980 are 9.5% and
12.3% respectively, against 7.8% and 6.8% for La Goulette and Las Marsa.
2/  Wfth 6.8% expected growth rates for the two of them, as opposed to 4.5%
and 4.3% for Carthage and Sidi Bou Said.
3/ La Goulette, Lu iram and Sidi Bou Said.
h/  On Avenue H. Bourguiba, some 700 m away from the .Medina.



A»NEX 6
Page 3
7.        One of the striking features in the present TGK operatLons
is the high value of receipts/car-klc  (see Table 1) in relation to the low
average fare paid by the passenger. Estiuiates of the average distance
of passenger journeys auggest that the unusuaily high receip,/car-km
is due to a high load per car of at lea1t 68-75 passen gers.£( In recent
yeara, its annual operating surplus averaged about D 129,000. The grouth
of passenger traffic averaged 4-5% per year and is expected to grow frrther
with an anticipated increase in industrial and tourist activities in the
area, partly resulting from the Bank Group financed tourism infrastructiure
and port development projects.  The rehabilitation of the antiauated rail
line assumes great importance in facilitating movement between this area
and other parts of metropolitan Tunis and is an integral lirnk in the overaLl
Tunis metropolitail transport system. The maintenance of this link in the
transport system would especially help low-income groups who would be pro-
vided with public transport to explore job opporturnities in the northeast
corridor.
III. TGM Modernization - Six Alternatives
8.        The 1967 study prepared by SOFRERAL  for the modernization of'
the  SJCFT-operated Tunis-Hamman-Lif suburban line also contained. proposals
for a modernization scheme for the TGM line.  'The SOFREAIL proposal, on the
basis of which the present Bank assistance was requested, called for the
conversion of the existing 600 DC electric traction to a 25kV 50 HZ operation.2/
However, the high cost involved in the recommiended modernization scheme
ilecessarily reauired critical review of the existing proposai as well as
consideratio-a 0f other alternatives for purposes of economic comparison.
Thus six alternatives were examined in detail, as follows:
a.  Substitution of buses on existing roads;
b. Substitution of buses on a reserved right-of-way;
c. Deluxe bus service on a reserved right-of-way;
d.  S0FEIaA.L' 8 Proposal;
e. Maintenance and renewal of existing operatioa; and
f. Diesel powered train service.
A. Substitution by Bu.s Service on E£siting Roads
9.        A detailed estimate of traffic needs, vith equipment running
at acceptable comuercial speeds to serve the corridor, indicated that about
60 buses would be required over the 1973-80 period. Thé capital cost of
buses excluding customs and taxes would be about  D 992,300.  However,
additional capital expenditures would be needed to improve the existing
road paralleling the TCM line as additional road capacity 'Quld be needed
to accoumodate increased traffic durinoe the summer months.Q/  A total
y/  Only l  on Iondon T ansport, ra±lways.
2/  Called alternative D in the rest of the  Annex.
,/  In the summer, about 30,000 people from Tumi8 settle in the northeast
corridor, resulting in a 25% passenger increase on the TCM line.



ANNEZ 6
Page 4
of D 252,h00 would be required as indicated belovs
(i)  The camewae acrose the lace in a 2X2-lane higËway with
lanes too narrow to permit *sry circulation of mixed
traffic.  The highvay would have to be videned by 1 a
on each side at a cot of approximately D 132,1400.
(il)  Minimm road varke vould aiea b. needed, eich as ehelters
and lae-bys, estiaated at D 120,000.
These tva itemas vould bring the total cost ta  .D 1,2244,700. However, the sale
of TGH equip ent vould provide  D 35,800, reducing the capital cost to
D 1,208, 9CCz.
10.       Important obstacles exi3t, however, in the development o! tUs
alternative:
(i)  the existing road is 5-7m wide in severaL locations
vith no possibility o! videning the pavement; using
this road would result in serious bottlen eksc 
eapecially in the summer;
(il)  the slopes on the exlsting road in the vicinity of Carthage-
Sidi Bou Said vould provide a serious obstacle for buses
likely to be frequently loaded to capacity;
(iii)  the provision of lay-bys in several sections would be
required to ensure that the rest of the traffic i9 not
slowed down. However, this may be impossible due to
a main water line recently laid almaot at ground level
under the pedestrian valk.
il.       It vas assumed that bus operating coste for this alternative
woula be the same as those incurred upon the improved SNT bus operations,
made possible by the projectts !inancing of a maintenance depot and
vehicie purchase.
12.       In addition to the above-mentioned difficulties, the major
drawback would likely be a loes o! passengers suffered by the line.
Oospared to other means o! public transport in Tunis, bus services are
considered unsatisfactory, oving to the generally low level
of service. Middle class Toh users continually state that they would
no longer use public transport ahould buses replace the rail service.
IWhen the trolley bus service was discontinued in 1968-69, and substituted
by buses, approximately 50% of a1 former trolley buas passengers, vere
pezmanently lost (see Annex 4).   If, in the near future, the TEK vere to
-be closed, a similar loss of passengers could be expected. Assming
that SNT would be able to improve its services, but also considering
the level of service likely to result from the conditions described
in para 5-10 and the comnercial speed likely to be achieved, a 30% losa of
patronage appears to be a realiatic estimate (see Table 4) for this
alternati.ve.
2/ See Table 2



ANNUZ 6
Page 5
B. Substitution by Bus Service on Converted T(< Ri*ht-of-Way'
13.       In this alternative, the TGH right-of-way between La Marsa and
La Goulette vould be converted to roadway, and the Government would be
requested to reserve thia road for bus service.  At a minimu, this road
would be reserved for specified periods daring the day, permitting buses
to achieve apeeds cparable to that of the existing TQI. à total fleet
of 49 buses would be needed to service the northeaat corridor at a
capital cost of D 810,300.
1W.       Other cotst' vould be:
(i)  conversion of TCN right-of-way       D 349,500
(ii)  iorks on bridges                         25,800
(iii)  conversion of TQ! stations              166,600
(iv)  intersections and signaling              26.200
D 568.100
As the cost of wideni.ng tne lake causeway was estimated at D 132,,400 and the
scrap value of TGM equipment D 35,800, the total capital cost of tais alterr.ative
would be D 1,375 (see Table 2). AU rolling stock would be purchased, aeid half
of all needed works could be completed in the first year of implementation,
involving expenditures of D 1,033,100.  The rest would be comtpleted diuri-ag the
following year.
15.       The operating cost vas estimated for this alternative (Table 3) as
for alternative A. Loss of patronage should be less than that anticipated
for alternative A due to the better service provided by this alternative.2/
C. Deluee BUB Service on Converted TGM Right-of-Way
16.       This alternative was devised to provide a quality service cormarable
to that of a modernized TOI4 rai  line. For the purpose of econo2Ic comnarisoA
it was assumed that specially upgraded bus service would retain equivalent
ridership levels.
17.       The characteristice retained for this alternative are the following:
(i)  the entire TGM right-oi-way would be converted
to a roadway for restricted use by buses. In
addition, special salety equipment wvuld be iieeded
on the 9.2 km section across the lake since high
speeds comparable to that of a modern train (an
average of approximately 80 km/h with a long plateau
at about 90 km/h) would be achieved on this stretch.
(:i.) deluxe buses, with a higher seating/standing ratio
than employed on the standard buses, would be assigned
to this service.
i/ AlU including a 5% contingency allowance.
' A probable drop is about 20-25% (see Table 4).



ÂN;NC 6
Page 6
(iii) the bus service would be designed to be more accessible
to the potential user while redulcing trip duration on
overall journeys. To this end, routes would be
carefully defined, each beginning with a short tour in
the residantial area to attract as many passengers as
possiblê, then traveling on the reserved roadway with as
few stops as possible before Tanis. 1/
id.       It was assuwed that carefiully designed routes would vermit buses
to achieve speeds comrparable to those of modern railways.  The-nunmer of
buses required to provide speedy, efficient and freouent services is estimated
as follows
Number of Buses
197h   -       49
1975   -       51
1976   -       53
1977   -       55
1978   -       57
1979   -       59
1980   -       62
Since it would be uneconomic to purchase buses in very small batches every
year and it is essential to maintain a continued high level of service, 54
buses would be bought immediately and eight more by 1977. The CIF cost of a
deluxe bus was estimated at D 25,00.eI Therefore, the capital cost.of the
vehicles would be D 1,488,hoo.
19.       Conversion of the entire TGM right of way would cost  D 689,300,
and safety equipment along the causeway across the lake (9.2 km) would
amount to  D l,012,00J/ Other costs wculd be:
works on bridges                     D  25,800
conversion of TGM stations
and construction of other
shalters                           D 250,000
Intersecti.ons and signaling         D  26,200
Theret,ore, the total ccst involved would be  D 3,455,990O.J
'j   wb.ich, howeV-r,    'nay he detrimentaJ. for a substantial fraction of the
-     trips made within thte northeast corridor.
)1   Or  D 27,560 including 5S spares and 5l contingencies.
j      iD 55 per meter, i.e. per meter  D ho for materials (guard rail on
concrete base) plus  D 15 for labor.
A.fter deduction of the  D 35,800 scrap value of old TOM.



ÀXflS 6
Page 7
uperatiig costs were estimated as folloWs:
1973 D'000
Fleet at           Admin.
Mld-Year           & Bldg.      Fuel     Move. Iaaint.    Total
1973                  47        42      96.6       78.4      145.5      52.5     373.0
1974                  49        44      96.6       82.0      152.5      54.8     385.9
1975                  51        45      96.6       84.0      155.9      57.0     395.5
1976                  53        47      96.6       89.0      162.9      59.2    407.7
1977                  55        49      96.6       92.8      169.8      61.5     420.7
1978                  57        51      96.6       96.6      176.7      63.7     433.6
1979                  59        53      96.6      100.4      183.7      65.9     446.6
1980                  62        55      96.6      104.1      190.6      69.3     460.6
D.  i'Iodernization by Conversion to 275kV 50 HZ Power Supply
°0.       The SOFREAUIL scheme for the TGM modernization was developed as part
of a general study for S&NCFT (see para. 8).  The consultants compared diesel
and 275kv 50 HZ electric powered systems, both requiring heavy rol}ing stock
to modernize the system and eli;duating the existing third rail.  For the
purpose of economic comparison, the SOFRERAIL proposal for an electric system
was retained as an alternative (D). It was slightly modified, however, to
make it conparable to other rail alternatives.  The alternative D involves
the following items:
(1973  D100)L'
Construction of a new substation              157.5
Construction of overhead line                 346.5
Telecommunications                             52.5
Signals                                      682.5
Track improvement                            625.8
Depot modernization                            47.2
Fencing                                        42.0
Total          i,954.n
21.       For alternative De the TGM operation would be carried out with two-
car trains. A possible timetable is shown in Table 5 and the corresponding.
schedule would be:
Tunis Marine - La Marsa                  28-1/2 min
La Marsa - Tunis Marine                   28     min
56-1/2 min
Layover at La Marsa°i                     2      min
Time reauired for round trip             58-1/2 min
il All costs include a 5. allovance for physical contingencies.
2/ Allowing for an extra minute as compared to present operation.



AW,aEX 6
page 
This represents a saving of 14i zinutes per round trip as compared to pregent
running tims. It allows for 12 and 16 minute services to La Marsa and-te
Carthage respectively, and operating 10 trains should offer a passenger
capacity considorably higher than that currently available. An illowance
was made for 3 spare units, resulting in purchase of 26 cars (13 motorized
cars and 13 trailers). The higher percentage of spares would result in
greater reliability of service. This alternative would accomudate traffic
increase in the summer, and closing of a few stations in the fueure iould
resuit in greater average speeds, shorter run times, and correspondingly
greater capacity offered on the line.
22.       The CI7   cost of a unit (motor and trailer) was estimated at
D 187,200 and, therefore, a total of  D 2,631,000 for 13 units. 1/ The totaL
coat involved would then be  D 4h,570,000 after deduction of the scrap value
of the old TGM estimated at D 15,000.
23.       In 1972, the TGM operating coste were as follows (1973  D'000):
Administration                     140.8
Buildings                           28.2
Fuel                                71.4
pvement staff                       88.3
Maintenance - .olling stock       136.9
Maintenance - Track and signals    75.5
51 .1
24.       If an electric alternative were selected, important changes could
be brought to the operating expenses as follows:
Administration )-58.1%
Buildings      )
Fuel                                 2.9%
M1vement staff                    _ 3-5%
Maintenance - Rolling stock        -76.9%
Maintenance - Track and sigaals   +23.6%
All operation                      -34.5%
1/  Including 35 spares and 5% for contingencies.



O
page 9
la terms of one-t.hirdreduction (34.5%) in operating costs, future operat-
ing costs would be accordingly redaced as indicated below:
(1973 In D '000)
Admiriistration                        Maintenance
Year    and Buildinf      Fuel    Movement   ,Roll.Stock       Trazk    TotaL
1973-5        177.4          75.0      92.7         143.7         79.3    568d.
1975          117.3         76.3       90.7          73.2         90.3    4:53.8
1975-80        74.14         77.2      89.3          33.1         98.1    372.1
E. Ibdernization of 600 DC Rail_Oyeration
25.       This alternative would not involve  major changes in the power
supply. The existing substations, while still performing adequately,
would have to be strengthened to provide for future needs.  Costa for this
alternative are: 
1/
(1973 D '000)
Work on aubstations                        73.5
Signaisl6a2.5
Track improvement                         625.8
Dbpot modernization                        47.2
Fencing                                   42.
Total             1,471.0
26.       lhe operating characteristics of alternative E are ideantical to
those of the 275kv 50 Hz solution (alternative D) with the same number of
required units. The rolling stock for this alternative is of a lighter
type and the  CIF   cost of individual units is  D 159,0C0. The total
cO8t of rolling stock is estimated at  D 2,237,400. Following the sale
of the old TGM, the total capital cost incurred by ST woould be  D 3,706,900.
27.       Operating costs are the same as those of alternative D since:
(i)  Track maintenance, in this case, involves maintenance
of the third rail, the cost of which is conparable to
that of maintenance of the overhead line in alternative D;
and
(ii) Cost of power consumption is the same, despite the lighter
weight of the rolling stock in this alternative.
1/ All costs include a 5% allowance for physical contingencies.



A.siX 6
Page lu
F. Conversion to fiesel Operation
28.       The operation would be carried out by two-car sets as in
alternatives D and E but the schedule would be: (Table 5)
Tunis Marine - La Marsa     30-3/4  min
La Marsa - Tunis Marine     30-1/4  min
61      min
Layover at La Marsa          2      min
Time for Round Trip         63      min
This 4h miniute longer runing time has a direct impact on the number of
required sets.  To provide the same capacity and, therefore, frequency
durirg the peak, as in alternatives D and E, the total fleet must be 14
ur its instead of 13, with the same provision of spare units.
1/ Including a 5% contingency allowance.
2/ Rolling stock in this alternative is of a lighter type than in
alternative D but it does not alloiw a decrease in the cost of
track improvements.
3/ Scrap value estimated at D 11,500.



A NhX 6
Page 11
29.       1ne cost of diesel unite is   D 179,000, and the fleet woUd
cost  D 2,763,4OO. Other costa would be:
(1973 D'OOOE
signals                                     682.5
Track içrovement                            625.8
Depot modernization              -47.2
Fencing               -                      42.0
Total      1,397.5
The scrap value of the old TGM would be D 15,000 resalting in a total cost
of this  alteinative of  D 4,145,900.
30.      As compared to the two pre^vious alternatives, operating costs for
diesel operation would be alightly bigher as described in the following:
(1973 'D'000)
Admin. &                          Maintenance
lear     Building     Fuel    Movement    Roil. Stock       Track     Total
1973-74    177.4      75.0       92.7           143.7        79.3    568.1
1975       117.3      55.7       90.7           125.5        87.1    476.3
1976-80     74.41     41.9       89.3           112.5        92.6    410.7
imathodology for eononiic Comparison
31.      The alternatives C, D3, E and F are directly comparable since they
would capture the saTe level-of ridership. As compared to therm  alternatives
A and B are characterized by;
(i)  longer runring timu; and
(ii) smaller patronage captured.
1/ Including 5% contingency.



ANN1  6
Page 12
32.       Based on a 1972 survey on ridership on the TGM, the flow of
passengers between and vithin sub-areas of the northeast corridor during
the peak period, can be sutmmarized as followa: 1/
(a)      (b)      (c)      (d)      (e)      Total
(a)  La Marsa             6       183      873      434       510      2,006
(b)  Sidi Bou Said                  °      295      191       261        7,47
(c) Carthage                               312    1,014    1,785       3,111
(d)  La Goulette                                    362    3,627       3,989
(e)  Tunis                                                      0          O
6       183    1,480    2,001    6,183       9,853
ApproxiImately 63% of ail TGM passengers are bound for Tuns and, therefore
must cross the Lakee.   This is the section of the line where the greatest
time savings would accrue with ay of the alternatives C, De E or F.
.At present, this journey takes 16 minutes; with alternatives C, D, E and F
this journey would take 10½ minutes and for alternatives À and B probably
16½ minutes. The time lost in this case is approxdmately 6 minutos per trip
across the Lake. Not all trips across the Lake originate at La Goulette.
The tine lost on tihose trips is therefore a mininm value for the time lost
by all passengers to or from Tunis. In alternative A these passengers are
estimated to lose an average of 9½ m2inutes per trip and ail other passengers
(37%) about 3e ncinutes. 2/  In alternative B, the same losses were estimated
at 7? and ji minutes.  Si  the average tie lost per trp in alternatives
A and B vould be 7½e and 5½ minutes reapectively. 3/
33.       iihe assunption vas made that ail trips made have the same spatial
distribution as those taken during the peak, and therefore that 7½e and 5½
minutes were the average times lost per trip in alternatives A and B. The
average monthly income in the northeast 0orridor is  D 24 and haJ. the hourly
wage level was applied to obtain tinm values. Time lost by school children
who compose 21$ of all passengers on the TGM was not assigned ary value.
Final estimates are shown in Table 6.
34.       Ail corponents of the cost streams of the four alternatives were
added and the present values for the six alternatives were estimated for four
discount rates: 8, 10, 12 and 14%, t;he result of which are:
1/ Passengers traveling between t-wo points but in opposite directions have
been aggregated in a single figure.
2/ Buses in alternatives A and B would be slower than the existing TGM4
within the northeast corridor.
3/ No account was talcen of gradual worsening of traffic conditions.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
(1973 D '000)
Discount Rate (%)
Alternative              8           10            12           14
A                     7,515.4      7,026.1      6,601.4    6,230.9
B                     6,455.9      6,070.0      5,733.1    5,437.6
C                     8.753.9      8,394.1      8,063.2    7,765.9
D                     6.336.3      6,236.1      6,121.1    5,997.2
E                     5,793.8      5,665.4      5,531.2    5,395.1
F                     6,263.9      6,125.6      5,980.0    5,831.3
Alternative E shows the lowest cost for all discount rates considered.



Li:i'Z  6
Table 
TUIZSIA
TUiJIS DISTRICT U4AMI  PLL'\1IqG Al.  PUBLIC TIA.',SPORT P1OJECT
Oporating Statiatica - TGM Line
1970     1971      1972
1.   Pausengera carried (milllons)                          15.07    15.74    16.3
2.    sassenger-1ld.coraetera
(=ni^imum ectimate) (milliona)                     168      174        175
3.   Oar-kilometer.  (millions)                              2.546    2.571      2.578
4.   Av. recoipt/pausenger  (aillime.  )                    44.46    44.34      44.99
5.  Av. roceipt/pausenger lalometer (millimes)               3.98     4.01       4.05
6.   Av. rooeipt/car kilomztsr (zLUinmea)                 263.06   271.34    275.73
7.   ,=oer of traffic (movement) staff                     112      112        112
8.    u*bor of miainteiuance stafi (about)                 310      310        310
9.  Pase'nger kcm generated/mzeDor of traffia
istaSX' only (millions)                              1.34      1.40      1.4,1
10.   Passnegozr km  generated/member of sta.ff
tmilliolls)                                          0.40      0.4 i     0.41,
11.   Av. number of pausengers in a car, at peak             86       88         90
12, * Jôina&  nwrber of cars in the fleet (mxtors)           35)54    35)54      9354
(trailer's)     19)       19)       19)
13.   Average effective nnumber of vehiclel  in
the ileet  (motora)                                 18)31    t.!        15)28
(tra±loru)                               13)                 13)
14.   ,xiimm cars racuired for service  (motors)             20)30    20)30      20)30
(trailers)       10)       10)       10)
15.   Actual av. nuibor of cars available for servlce                 lIA        15)22
7)
16.  laectric currer.t coziaumed (kwh x 103)                5453    15605
foteâs  1972 iigure are eatimated from ;ovember and December only.- )tem il may
be copared w±th a Ligure of 15 average pa.seriger occupancy of a London
uindararound railway car.  The traffiic day i9 about the same length in
Tanis and Londcon, but TuniJ hau in addition a mid-day peakr.
The iteom 15 should read with the £act in mir.d that additionaL serviceable
trrlezr cars are of .c une vithout serviceable mtor cars to haul them.
courco: SIïT 3tat±stice wid mideior. estimatea.



LÂli= 6
Page 1 5
Tabe 2~
TUNISI^,
TU,IS URBA iPLTIi G AN]) PUBLIC TRAIMSPORT PROJECT
TGM ALTERNAMrF,.
Capital Cost
(1970 D '000)
Year            (t)         (B)        (C)         (D)         (B)        (F)
1973         1,208.9    1,074.5    2,490.0         208.6       208.6      208.6
1974                       300.5    1,001.7    2,352.6    1,781.0    1,826.6
1975                                             2,009.2    1,717.3    2,110.7
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
l,esidual
Value          (177.7)    (38065)    (666.3)  (3,145.7)  (2,548.9)  (2,889.9)
*   tlission estimates
Lifetime of main items:            (Yeare)
Buses                            12
Train                           4i0
Track                            40
Signals                          25
Safety eouipment                 12
Roadworks                        21



AÂNEX 6
Page 16
Table 3
TUNISI.
TUiIS DISTRICT URBAÂI PLIAI.IiG AID PUBLIC TRILNSPORT P1DJECT
TGM ALTER1IATIVES
Opersting Cost *
(1973 D '000)
Year           (A)           (B)          (C)           (D)&(E5         (F)
/1          /2           /4
1973          5I43.5 /3    495.9         470.6-         568.1          568.1
1974          470.2 -      384.0         385.9          568.1          568.1
1975          449.1        366.7         395.5          453.8          476.3
1976          438.7        358.2         407.7          372.1          410.7
1977          432.4        353.1         420.7          372.1          410.7
1978          427.5        349.1         433.6          372.1          410.7
1979          420.6        343.5         446.6          372.1          41-.7
1980          414.7        338.7         460.6          372.1          410.7
1981          412.0        326.5         473.5          372.1
1982          408.6         333.7        493.0          372.1
1983          402.3        328.6         507.0          372.1
1984          405.8        331.4         526.5          372.1
*  Ilssion estimates
/1  Resulting from a TGM service over five months and a bus service
over the rest of the year, the latter at annual cost of D 518,000.
/2  Same as /A  with aninual cost of the operation D 427,900.
Â13  ?igure obtained on the same bases as those used in para. 19 of
this Annex.  Same for following figures and next column.
/4  Same as /1  with aruaal cost of bus operation:  D 373,000.
For follo-wing ffigures, see para. 12 of this Arnex.



.i4Lt   6-
page 1 7
Table 4
TU?tISI
TUl.AIS DISTIECT U-RBAI PLA'hiING AND PUBLIC TRAHSPORT P?fiJECT
TGM ALTERiATV5ES
Traffic Receipts *
(1973  D '000)
Year                (A)           (B)          (C) - (D)
(E) - (F)
1973               649.4        668.9            767.1
1974               566.9        665.9            802.8
1975               602.6        6M1.6            913.7
1976               638.3        677.3          1,003.1
1977               674.o        713.0         1l038.8
1978               709.7        748.7          1,074.5
1979               745.4        784.4          1,110.2
1980               781.1        820.1          1,,145.9
1981               816.8        855.8          i,181.6
1982               852.5        891.5          1,217.3
1983               888.2        927.2          1,253.0
1984               923.9        962.9          1,288.7
;- tssion estimate



ANNEX 6
Paee 18
Table 5
TUNISIA
TTUS DISTEICT URBAN LANMIiG AND PUBLIC TRALiSPORT PROJECT
ALTERNATIVES D AND E
(Electric Trains)
Run Times
Schedle Time    RUN 1.e                              Pain Time     Sche2dul1e li-5a
( zinutes)     (seconds)                           (seconds)       (m î nut* s )
O nan                        Thn1.n M»rino           14T2.2 1408    ?Ci ni.n /2  3L1
M2?.2  401   Le Bac                   75.1   85      -
75.5   85   La Goulette              142.6  147
142.3   ) 3   La Coulctte Neuve      52.3   82      -
52.2  614  Gou3.eU_t-.c.Casino       52.6  51       -
53.6   54  Khereddine                43.0   54      -
413.1  514  Aeroport                 50.3   54      -
15 min           51.1   58   Ie Krz$ 5C.9  67    13 r]iin
_                58.0   62   3aiexnbo                 52.9   63      -
5>4.1   64   Ryrsa                   49.9  57
53.t3  514   Dermch                  47.2   54
2- nin           50.5   53   Cathage-AnnibaJ          714.0   86     3  în
-                97.5  121   La Presidence            53.8   69      -
55.6   65   k,ni1car                 56.,   56
59.L4  68   Sidi-Bou-Said            59.5   75
57.9   72   L'Archeveche             49.3   68
*                4 3.5   53   Corninhn                66.8   78
30
;t 1/2   30 2/L  53.2   56  IIarsa I'lage   .          _               r wli.n
r.inl3*   zin.   ---  -                                 -
1323.,#1427                          1 306. 1 1 457
or                                    or
22 inin                                21 n in
4 sec.                                146 sec.
Elcc.  Diesel  Elec. Diesel                         Elec.  Diesel  Elec.    Diesel
/1  Ada Station stop times at 15 secs/stop except Le Kram (45 secs. )and
Carthage (30 secs.) = 4 kins. 45 sec. Add 5 sec/km for make-up time
and costing allowance = 1 min. 40 sec.
2S      aibsion eites              lances.
Source: Pe;ssion estimates



ANEN 6
Sae _19
TUE,NISI
TUNIS DtISTPICT UUBAKI PLANNiING AND PUBLIC TE&NSPORT PROJECT
Value of Time Lost on Alternatives A and B*
IC.terrat.iva A                 AJlternative B
Value of                        Value of
Passen-ers     tim.e lost       Passengers      time lost
1 ooo)        D n000~ too00 0)                 D t000)
1973          l. b,280         914.8          114,659           71.3
19T4          12,301           81.6           13,159           64.o
1975          1.2,896          85.6           13.75h           66.9
1976         13,490            89.5           114348          69.8
1977         14,081            93.5           11e,9h2          72.7e
3978         14,679           97.4            15,537           714.7
1979         15,273           101.4           16,131           78.5
1980         15,868          105.3            16,726           81.4
1982         17,057           113.2            17,915          87.2
1983          17>651          117.1           18.509           90.1
1984         18,2146          121.1           19,014           93.0
* lission estiate
!-



ANNA 6
Page 20
Table 7
T[¶NISIÂ
TUNIS DISTRI2T UREAN FLAINIG AND PUBLIC TRAI\SPORT P.)JECT
ALTERNATIVES A AND B
Economic ,ost lxcurred as a Result of Trnanser
of Passengers from ?ublic Transport to Private Car &
Alternative A                        .A1ternative B
Inoror.;_rmcai Cost                   Increwrenta3. Cost
Trips        Due to ;`r.:ns,'er       Trips         Due to transfer
Focezonc       to Private Car         Forc-one       to Private Car
_fiOOO)         (1973  D 'COO)          ('000)         (1973  D 'COO)
1973          2,572              128.6              2,193               'o4.6
1974          5,1h5              257.2              4,287               214.3
]975          5,145              257.2              4,287               214,3
1976         5,124               257.2             h1,287               214.3
1977         5,124               257.2             41,287               2114.3
_.J7f        5 1214             2571-               1;  R1)!3
1979          5,124              257.2              4,287               214.3
1960          5,124              257.2               4,28v              2J4.3
1931          5,124              257.2              4,,287              214.3
1982         5,124               257.2              4,287               214.3
1983          5.124              257.2              4,287               21l.3
19ô4         5,145               257.2              4,287               2li4.3
/1  As.surr,d to bre 25,° of all pisse.ners lost by the publ.c transpor, syster..
Source: -.-.ssioil estLmate.



A127a 7
Page 1
TUNSIA
TîIIS DISTRICT UMRlBN PIL>A7NG AND PUBLIC T  NSPORT PGJ3CT
TR&FFIC D4PROVEMNT PROGRAM OF THE MUCIÀLITY OF TUNIS
1.        A 1969 general transport and traffic stucy constitutes the
basis for traffic imirovements currently being considered by the
Municipality of Tunis. The i icipality bas ado,pted most of the con-
sultants' recommndatioris an=d iplemented apZronimateiy three-iourths
of them.
2,        Coz-g,.stion in the center of the Tunis metropolitan area results
from the pre.1oiinantly north-south orientation of the primary street net-
work and 4'e absence of east-west thoroughfares (see Map 10424). The general
layout oZ the modern section of this network follows a standard grid
pattern and the pbjsical characteristics of its coiponents favor north-
south movement. wiUle the north-south ±low constitutes a substantial
fraction o±' al. traffic in the city, it is not ypt large enough to saturate
the street network. 1/ On the other hand, with only one primary artery
from the west to provide direct access to the center, 2/ traffic from
tbis direction has few possibilities to diffuse withliathe central area.
This artery, Bab Saddoun opens on to two streets of lizited capacity:
Bab Cartagena and Ali Belhaouane.  As a result, an important fraction of
tihe movement to and from the west is diverted through the Boulevard iHedi
Chaker toward the north and onto the north-south oriented main arteries.
The additional load on these streets is further heightened by ail move-
.nts witlin -the center itsel± which can use oniy Bab Cartagena and A)i
Belhaouane streets.  Nurierous movements are thus once again diverted on
to the north-south main streets, resulting in considerable traffic volumes.
As little heed is paid to the enforcement of traffic and parking regulations,
the roadway available for handltng traffic flow is effectively redh.ced,
causing congestion on more irportant arteries.
3.        A practical solution to these traffic problems 3/ can only be
found through a detailed study of the means avaîlable to provide greater
flexibility in the use of the street network and to ensure its use to the
greatest extent possible.  Iibs will be acbieved also through the transport
study and the transaortation policy analysis included in the tasks to be per-
forned or supervisze± oy zhe planning and Studiés i)îrectorate of the TuzIS
is triot .
1/ Their flow however is slowed down noticeably when one enters the central
area from Place Pasteur.
2/  Due to the existence of the Medina and its surrounding traditional area.
3/ Transport problems would be addressed to by more comprehensive planning
effort, land use control and spatial development policies.



Ah4EX 7
Page 2
For the short-term, a traffic and circmlation iprovement program has been
developed, the iirplementation of wbich ahould bring noticeable improvement
to the critical points of the network.  The immediate action program should
avoid further deterioration until the results of mzre comprehensive studies
are made avaflable and broader scale projecte are considered.
4.        The program involves essentially three types of measureslf/*
(i)  improvement of layouts at intersections (six intersections),
(ii) equipment of e tersections with traffic lights (;5
interectina_  sadsyn-hrdiz-atoneëuiÉiment- -and
(iii) construction of pedestrian underpasses at major points
where conflsits between car and pedestrian movements are
most severe (tentatively, five public squares).
1/ See Map 10424 and Anrnex9, Pagë 2 for detalls.
2/  Including five of the six intersections dealt vith in (i).



AtiNNiX 8
Page 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTECT UIHBAN PLANING AN PUBLIC TRNSPORT ?MDJECT
SFAX URBAN DEVEIlP?IT STUDY
A.  Backgrould
Population anld Emloyrnnt
1.*       In 1966 the population of greater Sfax (with its five satellite
conminities) was estimated at about 244,000, growing at an average annual
rate of 3.3% since 1956.  The bulk of this increase was attributed to
natural growth, with one-fourth resulting £rom in-migration.  The econom-
ically active population nmXbers soma 50% of tIae totaL. Agriculture accounts
for 13.7%, industry 22%, public works and construction 9.3%, transportation
14%, commérce 15.5% and services 25.3% of total employment.  Ile rate of
unenployment was recently estimated at 12%.
Urban Density
2.        Greater Sfax covers an area of 11i,788 ha, with a gross population
density of slightly less than 21 ha. The densely built-up cores of the
Sfax and its five surround.ng commmnes comprise only 900 ha.  The weaLthier
elements of the population are xving mawa from the central city towards
the reconstructed Ville Moderne or the "bedroom area" of Les Jardins., leaving
the central city to the poor. and the in-miigrants. In spite of this outflow,
the central city is becoilng increasingly dense. In 1966, the ancient, walled
lBdina had a population denaity of 477 ha, or 25 times the gross density of
Greater Sfax.  Les R'bats has a sinilarly high net population density.  The
dansity progressively decreases as one moves away from the central area.
3.        The lack of planning controls have results in costly dispersed
development over wide areas.  In view of the rapid groith in recent years
Greater Sfax urgently needs proper guidance to redirect its urban grolwth
to avoid the present growth pattern which imposes unnecessary transport and
infrastructure costa.
Infrastructure and Services
4.        Uneven population densities complicate the task of providing u:ban
amenities. This problem is further exacerbated by the already existing
transport infrastructure which has developed haphazardly over the past years.
For example, the highway system, like the population, radi.ates from the iMedina
but is inadequate to accomn date the existing level of traffic. As the access
roads to the city are utilized by both intra-city and inter-city tralfic,
central city activities are hampered by interfering through traffic.



AN^IEX 8
Page 2
5.         Service networks are similarly inadequate.  It is estimated
chat the capacity of the present water supply system falls 25-i01
below the actual needs, seriously impeding industrial development and
housing construction in some areas of the city.
G.         Only the Medina and the modern city area have a suitable sewer
system. Other areas have either a poor system or none at all. Even
where there is a good collection system, the absence of a treatment plant
'crces raw sewage to be dumped directly into the ocean. Similarly, the
electrical grid needs to be expanded and higher power lines and transformers
need to be provided.
7.         Other urban services such as health, education and cultural
facilities are also disproportionately concentrated in the central city
and fail to meet the needs of greater Sfax.
Railroad
3.         Sfax is the junction of two major rail networks carrying
frpight and passengers to all parts of Tunisia:  to the north (Sousse,
Tanis and Bizerte), and to the south and west (Gabes and Gafsa).  For
C-reater Sfax itself the railroad is vital for the supply of food to its
people and raw material for its industries, for the flow oe local pro-
ducts and goods to   the port and for passenger transportation.  However,
while providing these valuable services, the railroad has greatly interfered
with the life of the city. The present configuration of the rail line has
had the following effects:
(a)  Isolation of the Northeast - The SEax Sakiet-Ez-Zit
line runs directly north from the iedina isolating
the rapidly growing northeast areas from the densely
deve'oped parts around the Medina. The less-densely
developed northeast area cannot effectively relieve
the urban housing shortage as long as it remains cut
off from urban infrastructure.
(b)  DivLsion of Center City - The line running south
fir'i S-ax skirts the Medina but intersects main
streets at l' places, only three of which have
bridges. With most trains as long as 500 m (.3 mi)
traveling at 15-20 km/hr (10 mph), city street
traffic can be tied up for long periods of time.
(c)  Bypassing of the Industrial Area -  Presently the
railroad is separated from the industrial area.
Industrial development wil'l be hindered without
proper solutions to this problem.



ANNEX a
Page 3
Similarly, the rail line fails to link the
industrial area with the port with the result
that the full potential for economic growth
is not reali4zed.
(d)  The OccuDation of Valuable Urban Areas - Relocation
of rail line ane its station would open up choice
land for de'velopment.
The Fishing Port
9.         Although Sfax is a major fîshing center, fisherman must use
poorly suited arH-.s ir the commercial port for their activities. The
fishing boats m*st mix with heavy commercial traffic and face the
problems of hIoh winds ane/or inadequate draft in their present location.
Proposed imrrovxements include:
(a)  a completely new and separate fishing port to be
constructed on the south wall of the present port; or
(b)  dredging the present facilities and protecting them
with a new jetty.
Proposed Solutions
10.        The three solutions presented by the Sfax Study Commission
foeus on the repercussions of the railroad displacement upon industrial
and port facilities, housing, and urban land. Each of the proposed
solutions provides for (i) elimination of the Metlaoui-Sfax rail line
which cuts through the center city, and (iî) diverting Route 1 to the
horth of Sakiet-Ez-Zit.  The Route 1  beltway wauld allow through
traffic to bypass the center city and also leave the center city free
of this added congestion. It vould also allow port and induistrial
tratffic to avoid the center city.
Plan A would resolve some problems created by the present
raiL systez  'd.le it is very costlY and, :n all likelihood, would
require external assistance, it provides for:
- relocating the railroad paraIlel to Route 1,
-  displacement of the present railway station
and freight yard and construction of new
facilities in south Sfax,
-  displacement of industries on the north jetty,
particularly near the phosphate plants.
An alternative to this plan provides for a rail spur to cut the edge of
the port to service the north jetty and prevent the displacement of whole-
sale industries located there.



A1NNEX 8
Page 4
Plan A would add a new quai onto the present south jetty
and provide the port with complete rail connections. The industrial
area would be fully serviced by both rail and road. A large area of
urban land would be recycled from the displacement of railroad and
industrial facilities.
Plan B is less expensive and requires no displacement of
the present railroad station or industries on the north jetty.  It does
not however, free as much urban land and would impose more barriers to
vehicular movement. With the implementation of this plan:
-   the railway station and phosphate plants would
remain vhere they are;
- the Sakiet-Ez-Zit rail line would be diverted
to the east posing a barrier between the
agglomeration and the port and coast;
-   Route  1 would not follow the rail line.
Under Plan B, the port and industrial area would be serviced sinilarly
as in Plan À except that overpasses would have to be constructed over the
rail line. Less land would become available for housing and oiher
uses but the north-aouth corridor would be openad up as in Plan A.  Moreover,
the northeast would become more receptive to the population movement.
Plan C maintaina the railroad through the center city with middle
or long term'possibilities of moving it to coincide with Plan A. The rail-
road would continue to form a barrier to population movement and traffic, and
would tend to polarize the communes.  If the railvay station and freight yards
are to be moved, it seems unfeasible to spend much on improving them now. The
port and industrial areas would be adequately serviced but the increase in the
supply o2 urban lard vould be negligible.
17.        The study included in the project would evaluate these basic
development options recommended by the Study Commission as well as identify
high priority urban development projects within a properly developed urban
framework. The study might lead to the preparation of a Sfax component for
a second Bank Group urban project in Tunisia.



TIUNISIA
TUN4JS DITWR:LCT UhRiiu PiDiNiUiD; fi a   Yu"i; TLI ,,bPA I  lR ?%w.ffj
Project Co0t Estimates-Details
*   LocaL    Foreign              % of                 S Equivalent
Total                Carrmen         Exchanze            Total                Foreign Exchange
(in  D '000)                ---   (11   D 000) ---                                   (in $ ''o)
A.  SUt - Iprovements Nodernization
- TQ3
Track (19.4 Kul                               596                  36                560                                         1,287
Signaling                                     650                  65                585                                        1,346
Sub-Stationa                                   70                  -                  70        .                -161
Depot Hodernization                            45                  -                  45                           -               103
Fencing                                        40                  40
Rolling Stock                               2,078                  -               2,070                                        4'777
13 Hotor Cars
13 Trailer Cars
Spare Parti (approx. 311                     62                  -                  62   ,                                       143
Increase in Stores                             58                                     58                                           133
3,599                 141              3 458               4.-                       7,950
Il - Autobus
Rolling Stock                               4,160                2,142             2,018                                        4h,587
65 Articulated 200,seate
145 Standard 88/90 "
Spare Parts (approx. 5% of Total)           208                                     208                                          472
___                                      2.22605
111 - Bus Depot
Building                                    1,092                 584                508      .                                  1,167
Equipuent                                     303                  -                 303                                           697
1,395                 584                811               îo8                      1.864
IV - Consulting Services
286         _       95                 191                2                         439
V - ContinRenciea
hysaical (approx.5% I                         420                  133                                                              6
Price (52 a year                              800                   4592                                 -                        264
1,220                 381                839                1l.                    1,920
TOlAL                                   io,868               3 343#             7 525               100.0
June 29, 1973



.11s
TUNlS DIlSTRrCT VRB&1 PLAII       PiB.C1       '   P
PreJect Oo,t Patin e,- e ai1-
Total.                 Local Currercy               !crelgc EvchenAe                 T t,J      Fo       xc ____e
ID)--- --- --------(la            ----------_------
B.   Municlpality Traftle imroveat
1 _   Iv,tersecti,n >prov*aenti
1.   Place Puteur                                    8,680                        5,2614                        3,386                                    7,184
2.   Place 2Putole France                           17,170                        9,549                         7 621                                   17 519
3.    Place Bob Seklg                                                             3 616 2I442 5kE14
4.   Place Bsb el Iadra                              6 ,514                       3^e7                          2,576                                    5,923
5.   Place Bab e1 Djazira                            4,013                        2,563                         1:450                                    3,333
6.   Intersection Eui Ple.tine/
ledi Cake                                  21,607                       11,350                        10,257                                   25,579
Niscellaneoug Equipeent,
Studiee, Plaing                                                                                                                                  , 2,58  -9586
Total Iuter,,ctioe IXproveuuotf                                            38,18                         29.0                                     68.331
Tramec Ligta 01»laiag zquipsent-
1.   Route de l'Arita,/VYoe X 2/bre Moal.            5,10                         1,502                        3,598                                    8,271
2.    Place Paateup                                  3,250                           954                        2 396                                    5,508
3.   Place Anatole Fraoce                            4,750                        1,385                         3,365                                    7,736
4.   Avenue Tbaheurr/Be d'Athenes                    1,710                          429                         1 281                                    2,945
5.   Avenue Thsmur/Eue de Roee                       1,710                          429                         15281                                    2,945
6.   Avenue Crth,ade/Ru  YTu<celav&e                 1,710                           429                        1,281                                    2,945
7.   Avenue Carthnee/Fârhat 114ched                  1;770                           465                        1,305                                    3,000
8.   Place lob el 10.adra                            4,140                        1,,268                        3,132                                    7,200
9.    ueI des Proteatats/evO. Be1h&oUane             2,530                          645                         1,885                                    4,333
10.    Place Bob Bonau                               14,050                         1,265                        2,785                                    6,402
Il.    Place Bxb e1 Amoui                             2,630                          705                         1,925                                    4,425
12.    Ave. La Gare/Sidi el ecbir                     2,010                          522                         1,488                                    3,421
13.   Place Bab el Djzi»ra                            5 100                         1,502                        3,59i                                    8,271
14.   Ave. Ghmna/J. Jurea                             2530                           6145                        1                                        4,333
15.   Ave. 44id V/Ave. Barthou                                                        570                        1.520                                    3,498
SubWotal                                      45,340                       12,97                         32.025                                   75.233
Synelrcnjzat1o,,  Sgipeeat, ut,dies,          20,940                        6,290                        14,650                                   33,678
Misc. equpiçent                                                           - 82                         1,212                                    2.786
Total Trattic Lbehts Signa*ing
EqW Peent                                                                  18.994                        48,587                   14.7           111.697
111 -  PedestrIan laprovementâ
1.   Place Anatale France                          2014,000                     124,800                        79,200                                  182,069
2.    Place de 1"tndepenoa4ce                      85,000                       52,000                        33 000                                   75,862
3.   Place de la Victoire                           68,o00                       41,600                        26,400                                   60,690
4.    Place Bab Pl Alouj                            48,000                        32,500                       15,500                                   65,632
5.   Place Bab Soua                                 67.200                       45500                         21.700                                    49385
Subtotal                                     472,200                      296,',00                      175,880                                  408,736
Soil Studies, Detailed Mndineerin             1L                                                          2,000                                    4,598
Total Pedestrian lmptoveaIenta               485,00                                                    177,800                   53.7           408,736
Total Traffic lupceWewta                     621.                         365,112                       256,114                   77.4           588,7-1
IV -   Technlc&l Asslstance                             75,000                       3C,000                        45,000                                  103, 00
Totat mmleipeltty                               69_.226                      395,112                       30J,114                   90.9           692,271
Contingencies (10%)
(5% FPcîcal) 
(5% Price)                                   69.623                       39,511                        30.111                                   o9,7l7
4 1~~~~~~ 
POTAL                                           765,8>9 4;                                                     -5                   100.0           ______



AN.IE 10
Page 1
TUUISIÂ
TUtLIS DIST5ICT URBAI P.L`i;I'AG A±ID PUBLIC TRA:"SPORT  .ROJECT
OUT1LI-E TERs OF RCFït&-Ci FOR, TEC,NICAL CO ISULTANTS TO S.N`TT
1.   Consultant on Urban Bus Operations
The consultant will assist S.T in the following tasks:
(a)  analysis of operational2 requirements for establishing
on existing and planned new routes:
(i) time achedules for vehicles;
(ii) crew duty schedules and rosteri.mg of crews;
(iii) operating statistics; and
(iv) traffic control.
(b)  achieving optimal utilization of fleet and personnel
with particular reterence to:
(i)  mileage operated out of service;
(îi) traffic loads on each route; ard
(iii) commercial speeds.
(c)  other studies to improve the operation of the bus network,
and to plan new routes and route changes.
2.   Consultant for Bus Maintenance
The tasaks of this consultant would be:
(a)  to examine current maintenance methods;
(b)  to assist with the preparation of a cycle oi preventive
maintenance;
(c)  to examine the preparation of vehicle history sheets
and recording of mechanical failures;
(d) to examine the level of stores stock required; and
(e)  to advise upon priorities for withdrawal of obsolete
vehicles.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Technical Consultan:t for TGM
The tasks of the consultant would be:
(a)  to assist in the renovation of the TGM rail track
and introduce more efficient methods for its
maintenance;
(b) to examine current rolling stock maintenance methode
and assist in the preparation of improved, more
systematic procedures to be applied when new rolling
stock is obtained;
(c)  to advise on the preparation of proper vehicle history
sheets and recording of failures and repairs;  and
(d)  to assist in attaining optimal operation of TGM and
defining changes needed as a result of expected
traffie increase.
4.   Consultant on Budgetary Control and Cost Accounting
The financial consultant should assist SNT management in introducing
a standard cost accounting system, including stores accounting and control.
This system should permit SIT to allocate common charges between its urban
and inter-urban operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting
practices.  He should work closely with the external audit firm that Sâ>T will
employ.  Ht should also work with the technical department of SÂT in developing
a monitoring system to assist in setting realistic financial and operating
targets for SNT's urban operations, to permit sufficient feedback on financial
problems and to aid in supervision and control of performance targets.
The work on the monitoring systen should be completed within six
months of appointment.
5.   Engineering Consultant on Procurement
The consultant will provide support and guidance in:
(a)  writing detailed specifications and preparing tender
documents for procurement of TGM rolling stock and
related maintenance and signalling equipment;
(o)  developing a set of criteria and a methodology for
evaluation of tenders, to be approved by the Bank;
(c)  determining an international reference price, CIF
Tunis, for buses of comparable specifications to
those that may be procured by SNT from STIA and
evaluating STIA's bid price agai¶nst th,e reference
price;
(d)  evaluating the bids submitted for supply of T&M
rolling stock and other equipment; and
(e)  supervising the delivery of vehicles and installa-
tion of equipment and the testing of the new rolling
stock and equipment.



ANNEX 11
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE - TRAFFIC CONSULTANT
The Traffic Consultant should:
(i)  Review Past  +udies and information on transport and
tra'f1c -In Tunis and reassess the spatial distributions
cf residential areas and urban activities by type as
generators of the main transport movements.
(ii)  if necessary, complement and/or update present knowledge
on traffie and transport by organizing surveys and counts
and supervise the processing of their returns.
(iii)  Review past recommendations on traffic and parking
regulations as well as the extent and efficiency of their
implementation. Suggest irmediate corrective complementary
measures to increase the benefits or effectiveness of these
actions. Provide detailed quantified justification for all
improvements or projects recommended for imiediate
implementation. Make specific recommendations on systematic
procedures to be adopted whereby main traffic movements
would be regularly reassessed, and their linkages with urban
equipment and activities determined.
(iv) Identify the main transport desire lines in Tunis and develop
a short and medium term action program for comprehensive
traffic management and traffic restraint. This should be
presented to the Government and the Bank/IDA for review and
consultation before it is authorized for implementation,
The program should encompass the definition of special
measures such as parking restrictions, introductiDn of
one-way streets, and conversion of vacant lots to commercial
or parking uses.
(v) Develop, in conjunction with the above, a set of performance
targets that would permit the Government and the Bank/IDA
to monitor the progress of implementation and identify the
improvements being obtained.






ANNEX 12
Page 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PIANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE D' INDUSTRIE AUTOMOBILE
A.  Past Operations
The Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile (STIA) was established
ir. 19ll, as the result of an agreement between the Government of Tunisia and
t,he French firm, Renault-Saviem, to assemble trucks, buses and trallers in
Tunisia. In 1965, STIA expanded its activities to encompase the assembly of
passenger cars.  The original equity in STIA vas held by Tunisian Governient
institutions (33%), Renault-Saviem (40%) and the Tunisian Development Finance
Company, Societe Nationale d'Investissement (SNI) (27%).  in 1968, the
Tunisian shareholders bought out Renaultts participation. SNI and minor
private shareholders increased their holdings to 51% with the Tunisian
Government institutions holding the remainder.
Up to the present, STIA has imported vehicles in semi-knocked-down
condition or completely-knocked-down condition and assembled them locally,
incorporating certain items produced in Tunisia such as castings and stampings,
tires and batteries.  Since its inception, STIA has endeavored to expand its
operatibns through diversification. and integration of the largest possible
proportion of locally manufactured parts and components. In addition to Renault
and Saviem vehicles, STIA has assembled Berliet, Fiat, Ford, Pegiot, Citroen,
Ikarus and International Harvester vehicles.  Its plant is well organized, the
assembly line is logically laid out and material is available on both sides of
the line. Quality control is good, with both line inspectors in the manu-
facturing process and extensive testing with modern equipment before vehicles
leave the factory. Tables i and 2 provide some statistical and financial
information on STIA's past operations.
B. Expansion Plans for Manufacture of Buses and Coaches
In 1970, STIA decided to expand its production of buses; it has
engaged in international bidding to select partners in bus body manufacturing,
and for the import of chassis and mechanical sub-assemblies. STIA's expansion
plan is based on an assessment o! Tunisia's bus needs over the next decade for
urban and inter-urban use and for luxury tourist coaches. Extensive discussions
have taken place among STIA, the Directorates for Transport and Industry in the
Ministry of National Economy, the Tunisian National Tourist Office (ONTT), the
main regional transport undertakings and the major tour operators and hotel
chains, in order to arrive at a demand figure, estimated at 200 buses and luxury
coaches a year. During these discussions, a main issue has been the standard-
ization of the bus/coach fleet in a country with a liimited market. Most
transport operators in Tunisia are concerned by the growing variety of makes and
models in use, causing problems in service and maintenance. Many buses have



AMNEX 12
Page 2
been bought in a disorganized fashion on the basis of a variety of bilateral
lines of credit. The development of STIA's expansion program has been guided
by the need to provide the Tunisian market with a product that vould be
flexible enough to serve a wide range of uses, would standardize the fleet
in the country over time and would nonetheless not ecmmit the country to the
type of one-sided, uneconomic spare parts arrangement that bas arisen in many
other developing countries.
On the basis of this rationale, in October 1970 STIA invited bids
from a wide range of international manufacturers for the supply of bus and
coach chassis, chassie sets and homogenous mechanical sub-assemblies, and
for technical partnership in the manufacture of bus and coach bodies. After
nearly three years of evaluation, assessment and discussion of the more
serious offers, STIA selected in January 1973 a Belgian firm, van Hool; in
June of this year STIA and van Hool signed a technical partnership agreement
for the manufacture of bus and coach bodies. The technical and training
support to be provided by van Hool will considerably improve STIA's capability.
Van Hool is a leading manufacturer of bus and coach bodies,with
manufacturing and partnership operations in Belgium, Spain and Brazil.
Van Hool has developed an engineering capability that permits the manufacture
of complete buses using a variety of mechanical sub-assemblies and essentially
frees the manufacturer of buses from over-reliance on a single supplier of
chassis.  The typical body manufacturer in most developing countries is tied
to one chas sis supplier. As the latter normally produces a competitive
product, the LDC mamufacturer is frequently the victim of a pricing policy that
permits one major chassis manufacturer to maintain a stronghold on the market.
Van Hool (which does not manufacture chassie at all) has perfected the
technology of bus body manufacture to the point where it is completely
independent of the vagaries of any one supplier. Van Hool normally buys
mechanical sub-assemblies (i.e.,engines, gear boxes, transmission sets, etc.)
fronm the most advantageous sources. Its engineering capability permits it to
start a new operation with fully assembled chassis (i.e., frame, undercarriage,
engine mounted on the frame, tires, etc.) and progressively delete from the
chas sis set individual components which are more competitively purchased from
a supplier other than the original chassis manufacturer. In the terme used by
van Hool and STIA, the body manufacturer ceases to acquire homogenous mechanical
sub-assemblies, and himself does the engineering work required to adapt
different brands of components purchased more cheaply to his body. Van Hool
has agreed to provide this technology, including the necessary engineering
studies, to STIA. The operation would be virtually identical to its factory
in Spain.
The STIA/van Hool contract provides for a five-year association during
which STIA would rapidly move from an operation with about 35-40% domestic
content to one with a 55-60% domestic content. The technology is simple and
efficient. The manufacturing processes present no technical problems to STIA.
STIA would acquire special van Hool jigs and fixtures and special tooling equip-
ment, as well as engineering plans and designs.  However, much of the necessary
machinery (presses, welding jigs) is already in place in STIA's facilities.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
An expansion of the factory floor space and a major reorganization of its
manufacturing layout is proceeding rapidly and will be completed by the
end of 1973. Total floor space for the bus and coach operation will more
than double, to some 5,200 m2.  Total investment in plant and equipment
amounts to some TD 400,000 (US$1 million equivalent) and the technical
partnership agreement with van Hool will cost some TD 100,000. A line of
credit for technical assistance provided to Tunisia by the Government of
Belgium may finance the technical assistance involved, over some two years.
STIA will start manufacturing operations in early 1974 based on prototypes
to be provided by van Hool. During the first year, van Hool will also
provide certain pre-assembled body panels, but after the first 100-150 units,
STIA will form its own body panels in Tunisia. Domestic value added in the
manufacturing operation is expected to rise from some 35-40% in 1974 to
50% by early 1975, and to 55% at the end of that year. Some 10% of the
domestic value added will come fram the local purchase by STIA of tires,
batteries and minor body parts.
STIA has invited bids for the supply of chassis and mechanical
sub-assemblies on an international basis. It vill submit an evaluation
report of recommendations to the Bank for approval before negotiating a
contract with the supplier. STIA's work on bid evaluation fôr parts is
sufficiently advanced that it is expected to be able to meet the deadline
for supplying the initial project buses to SNT early in 1974.



. UNISIiA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PiBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
STIA-Financial Information
(in '000 Dinars)
1970          197r1         1972
PROFIT AND LOSS INFORMATION
SALES (Net of Taxes)                                           2,477         4,681         5,133
COST OF SALES
Materials (c.i.f., Net of Customs Duties)                 1,786         3,477          3,822
Salaries, Wages and Benefits                                223           276           338
of which    Direct Labor                                   92           119           178
Indirect Labor                                 34            38            18
Management and Administration                  50            59            65
Benefits                                      47             60            77
Factory Expenses                                             81           116           134
Depreciation                                                178           233           164
2EbZi         l4,102,45
GROSS INCOME                                                     209           579            675
Interest Income                                           n.a.             92           122
Other Income                                              n.a.             34             35
INCCME FROM OPERATIONS                                           209           705            832
Interest Expense                                            171           414           350
INCOME BEFORE TAX                                                 38           291            482
Income Tax                                                   n.a.             55             62
Net Income                                                   n.a.            236            420
Add Exceptional Income                                         n.a.             66             44
Less Exceptional Losses                                        n.a.             91            136
75           211           328
BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
ASSETS
Current Assets                                            2,1.07       .3,033          3,607
Inventories                                               1,412         2,731          1,749
Net Fixed Assets                                          1,8O6         2,538         2,48
TOTAL ASSETS                                         5,325         8,302          8,oo4
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                       2,214         3,501         3,075
Medium and Lang-Term Debt                                 2,177         3,682          3,410
Equity                                                      934         1,119         _,519
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                    5,325         8,302          8,oo4                        CD



TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PIANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Supply of Automobile Vehicles in Tunisia
1962     1963      1964     1965      1966     3967      1968      1969     1970      1971
Imports:    Cars              2,640    1,710       126    1,019       882    1,033    1,649    1,659    3,050    6,507
Trucks           1,463    2,334       413       749       614      364       583      552    1,106    3,343
Buses                93      160        -        42       176       97       110       169      118       297
Trailers            721      340         2      366       661      103    1 109        179      452       240
Total            4,917    4,544        541    2,176    2,333    1,597    3e4.51    2,559    4,726/1 10,387L2
STIA Sales: Total               200L3    200 a      99L3    209L3    520        617       731      980       810    1,112
Total  S;;;lv                -5,117    4,744       640    2,385    2,853    2,214    4,182               5  ,536        9
STIA Share                      4%        >%       15%       9%       18%      28%       17%      28%       15%       10%
/a    Including 1993 second hand vehicles (1,561 cars).
/2    Including 7,516 second hand vehicles (5,041 cars and 2,464 trucks).
a    Production.
H i






ANNEX 13
Page.
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year               Disbursements          Cumulative Disbursements
By Quarters                   During Quarters            At End of Quarter
1973-74
Dec. 31, 1973                      .1                          .1
Mar. 31, 197L                      .7                          .8
Jun. 30, 1974                     2.3                         3.1
197h-75
Sep. 30, 1974                     2.8                         5.9
Dec. 31, 1974                     1.9                         7.8
Maxr. 31, 1975                    2.2                        10.0
Jun. 30, 1975                     3.0                        13.0
1975-76
Sep. 30, 1975                     2.4                        15.14
Dec. 31, 1975                     1.0                        15.4
Mar. 31, 1976                     .8                         17.2
Jun. 30, 1976                      .8                        18.0
Note:     These diabursements assume that the loan and credit become
effective before December 1973.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Suggested Schedule of Bus Delivery
Buses
Month          Yea                  Standard            Articulated
February       1974
March
April                                  10
May                                    10
June                                   10
July                                   10
August                                 10
September                              10
October                                13
November                               13
December                               13
January        1975                    13
February                               13
March                                  13
April                                   7
May                                                           5
June                                                          9
JU1Y                                                          9
August                                                        9
September                                                     9
October                                                       9
November                                                      9
December                                                      6
65



Page l
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SNT FINANCIAL ASPECTS - RESULTS. FORECASTS r ASSUMPTIONS
NOTES TO TAELES
1) EVALUATION OF SNT'S FIXD ASSETS (for Urban Bas and TGM Operations)
1.        For the puroose of the opening balance sheet and estimation of
the proportion of SN'-'s fixed assets applicable to the urban ope-
rations, as c: December 31$ 1971, an assessment has been made on the
following tentative bases:
(a) Track and Signaling        -  on present replacement costs
depreciated at generally ac-
cepted percentages.
(b) Rolling Stock
TOM                       ) at current book value
Bus                       )
Inter-urban Coaches       )
Taxis                     ) excluded
Hire Cars                  )
Staff Cars                )
(c)  Land                       ) these items have been al-
Buildings                  ) located between urban and
Fixed Plant and            ) inter-urban operations
Machinery                 ) in the 67/33 preparation
Establishment Charges       j respectively.
Work and Procurement in     )
Progresa (actual)          )
Miscellaneous               )
The results are shown in Table 2.
2.        An evaluation of the urban and inter-urban fixed assets is
required and should be performed by independent external auditors as a
basis for separation of accounts (para.6.09). The tentative valuation
of TaM track and signalling equipment ahould be enforced through the audit.
2)  FORECAST OPE2ATING INCOME AND EENITURES (Table 4)
INCOME
Urban BUs Operations
1.        Revenue from passenger traffic has been calculated from the base
of the 1972 actual receipts with a linear projection averaging approximately
4% p.a. applied to the years 1973 to 1980.



ANNEX  4
Page 2
2.        Over the period of the expected gradcha introduction of new
buses frcm January 1, 1974 to Séptember 30, 1975, an uplift totaling
10% has been added to the revenue receipte.
TGM
3.        Pevenue from passenger traffic has been calculated from the
base of the 1972 receipte with à linear projection averaging approximnately
4% p.a. applied to the years 1973 to 1980.
h.        An uplift of 10% has been added to the revenue receipts as from
June 1, 1975, the expected date of introduction of the new rolling stock.
ExPENDITURE
Urban Bus Operations
5.        Operating espenses in the years 1973 to 1980 have been calculated
from the base 1972 actual Coets with variations as follows:
Fuel, Drivers, Conductors   ) increased in proportior to
and Supervisers             ) number of vehicles operated
in public service
Maintenance                  (i) increased in proportion to
number of vehicles in fleet
(ii) decreased progressively each
year as new vehicles introduced
on a decreased base cost per
vehicle to a maximum of 75% of
former cost
Administration                  no increase (despite new effort
on operationally oriented research)
P.e to inflation, al- expenses are assumed to increase by 5% p.a.
The new BUs Depot is written off over bO years and the equipment
0qLàeï 20 years.  Vehicles are depreciated on a twelve-year life (including
nzares).
TGM
7.        Operating Expenses based upon 1972 actual costs, and costs in years
1973, 1974 and 1975 (first five months) increased by 5% per alL:um. In 1975 (last
sever mnonths) a.ud ini the years 1976/1980 total expenses have been reduced
to take account of introduction of completely new railway equipment, reflected
rminnly in rolling stock maintenance which is reduced by approximarely 75.% on
former cost levels. All expenses in these years have been uplifted for price
increases by 5' per ainnum compound calculated from January 1, 1973.
S.        The valuation of gross and net fixed assets is incomplete and the
final results may vary from the tentative valuation used for the purposes of
the forecasts. In addition to introduction of depreciation of Track and
Signaling on TGM an extension of depreciation lives, based on customary
oractices has been adopted aS shows:



A1MEIJ14
Page 3
Track                  40 years
Signaling kquipment  25 years
Sub-Stations           20 years
Depot                  20 years
Fencing                20 years
Rolling Stock          40 years
9.        With the proposed renewal of a large part of the fixed assets
during the years 1973/1975 the depreciation allowance, provided in the
rorecasts is basec on purchase costs.
10.       Interest takes into account financial charges on existing loans.
In addition Lt includes the financial charges on the proposed Bank loans.
The propo,ed Bank loan and IDA credit have been assumed to be relent by the
Govermment to SNT at 7.25% interest per annum vith a term of 22 years
including a four-year grace period. The proposed local currency financing
for buses in assumed at ten years amortization at 8% interest. In the years
1976/1980 interest also takes into account the financial charges on proposed
new SNT loans for the Autobus new vehicle programs in those years (ten years
amortization at 9% interest).
11.       Taxes on groes revenue are levied at 7.25% on bus and 7.8% on
TGM operations.
12.       Accounts Receivable represent miscellaneous roceivables and are
expected to remain fairly static
13.       Stocks and Investments mainly represent Inventory and some SNT
interesta in Government-owned tourism and rent-a-car agencies.  Inventory
alone is expected to increase by about D 100,000 a year up to 1977 and then
by about D 200,000 in 1978 and by D 400,000 thereafter to account for
needed increases in supply of spare parts for maintenance.
14.       Current Liabilities which are very high in 1973 due to short-term
notes and overdra?tt are expected to fall sharply as SNT's lic,uidity position
inproves with more steady inflow of cash inccoe.



TUi4lSXA
TlTIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SNT - Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971
SNlÉe                      Ski S!4;
(Actual)                 (Revalued)         (Urban Bus and TGM
Operations) (Estimated)
A3SiEl&S
Current Aesets
Cash and dank                            62                         62                         42
Accounte Receivable                   1,625                      1,625                      1,043
Stores and Investments                2,723                        2                        1,,824
T'otal Current Assets                  4,410                      4,410                      2,909
Fixed Assets
Grou$ Value                           9,676                     14,977                     11,942
Less Accumulated Depreciation         4.366                      8,325                      6.952
'!rotal Net Fixed Assets              5.310                      6,652                      4,920
WOTAL ASSE'S                    9,720                     11062                     7.899
LIABILITlES
tj.otal Current Liabilities           3,837                      3,837                      2,437
l'-otal Long Term Debt                1,575                      1,575                      1,322
Uguïitr
Capital                          2,078                      3,420                     2,655         - (D
Reservos and Retained                                                                                 t
Barnings 2e230                                           2,230                      1.L55
'l'Otal lequity                       4,308                      5,650                     li,140
'2'OYAL LIÂBILIeW-ES                     9,720                     11,062                      7.89
i«YjA: basis for Revaluation and Separation of Urban Operations in .fable 2.



TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SNT
Value of Gross and Mtet Fixed Assets as of Deceiber 31, 1971
Lstimated Ur-ban bus/TGM Positioni
(D '000)
Book Value                Accrued    oreciatin                 DeprciatedVae
Track                                   5,238                         3,928                                 1,310
Signaling                                  63                            31                                    32
Rolling Stock
TOM                                     357                           183                                   174
Bus                                  3,944                          2,t435                                1,509
Inter-urban Coaches                    -
Taxis                                   -
Rire cars                               -                                                                   -
Staff cars                               56                             34                                   22
Land/A                                     94                                                                  94
Buildings /1                              486                           184                                   302
Fixed Plant and Machinery /L               54                             19                                   35
Eatablishment Charges 1                   414                            110                                  304
Work & Procurement in Progreas 2        1,174h                                                              1,174
Miscellaneous /1                           62                             28
TOTIAL                      11,942                          6,952                                he990
/1  Separated on a 67/33 ratio besween urban and inter-urban operations.
/2 New Cherguia depot under construction.
April 26, 1973



TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PIA1NNQI AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
SNT _  Income Accotuits 1l67-71
(D'000)
1967                 1968                1969                 1970                1971
Urban    Total      Urban    Total      Urban    Total       Urban    Total      Urban    Total
Revenue
Traffic Revenue                           2,316    3,809      2,684    4,273       3,271    5,031      3,748    5,554       4,002    6,012
Non-traffic Revenue                           6       .14        28        44         14        21         22       32         22        32
Total Revenue                         2,322    3,823      2,712    4,317      3,285    5,052       3,770    5,586       4,024    6,044
Less:  Tax on Gross Revenue                 142       211        170      241        254       392        296      438        294       462
Total Operating Revenue               2,180    )16l2      2,542    4,76       3.031    4,660       3,474    5.148       3f730    5,582
Expenses
Operating Expenses                        1,666    3,758      1,769    2,978       2,093    3,445      2,578    3,992       2,981    4,572
Depreciation                                461       631       509       710        564      812        690       920        629-      924
Total Operating Expenses              2,127    3,389      2,278    3,688       2,657    4,257      3,268    4,912       3,610    5,496
Operating Income                             53       223        264      388        374       403        206      236        120        86
Less:  Interest Charges                       4         9         14       19         36        38         62       68                   82
Exceptional Losses & Profits                     1                (128)                  9)                 124                   70
Net Income                               49       215       250       241        338      266        144       292         65        74    H    x 
Notes:   Income Accounts amended to reflect higlher depreciation charges due to revaluation lndicated in lable 1.



TiJISTA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANE7ING AND' PUBLIC TRARNSPOPT PR0,T-C1
SNT - Urban Bus snd TGM Operatio7ls - Thrcome Accourt - 1972-1951
(D '000)
TOTAL                                                            TOTAL           10-YEAR
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976     1972-76           1977      1978     1979      1980     1981      1977-81          TOIAL
REVENUE
Traffic Revenue                                4,308    4,499    4,809    5,227    5,470                       5,689    5,916    6,144    6,371    6,610
Non_Traffic Revenue                               24        24       25       25        25                         25       25        25       25        25
Total Revenue                              4,332    4,523    4,B34    5,252    5,495        24,436         5,714    5,941    6,169    6,396    6,635         30,855           55,291
Less:  Tax of Grass Revenue                      316      332       357      387      404        1,796           420       437      454       474       492       2,277            4,l)73
Total Operating kevenue                    4,016    4,191    4,477    4,865    5,091        22,640         5,294    5,504    5,715    5,922    6,143         28,578           51,218
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses                             3,381    3,729   4,460    5,155       5.435     22,160           5,844    6,291    6,740    7,224    7,745         33,8h-           56,00.
Depreciation                                     700       650     742      961      1,131      4,184           1.141    ,1i85    1,253    1,309    1.309          6,19l           10,331
Total Operatlng Expenses                   4,081     4,379   5,202    6,116      6,566     26,344           6,985    7,476    7,993    8,533    9,054         40,041           66,385
Operating Income (Loos)                          (65)    (188)   (725)  (1,251)   (1,475)    (3,704)           (1,691)  (1,972)  (2,278)  (2,611)  (2,911)    (1L,463)            (15,167)
Less:  Interest Charges                           137      1146    331      603        804      2,015             829      826       845       868      838        4.206            6,221
(196)    (334) <1,056)  (1,854)   <2,279)    (5,719)          (2,520)  (2,798)  (3,123)  (3,479)  (3,749)    (15.669)            (21,388)
Add: (1)  Governnfent Compensation - Student
Tariffa                                 -        950         1000 15 O      ,150      4,250           1.250    1,250    1.          40000               6;700            10,950
(it) Additlonal Revenue - Tariff
InereAnes andfor Addtttnnsl
Governasent Compensation in Lieu
Tlereof                                                           666        762       1.428          1,515    1,571    2,23]    2,313    2,39E4        1                11,1456
NET INoeME (Las,>                               (196)    616        (56)     (8                    (41)           245        23      508       234      (49)       1,059            038
_____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ___  .__  __             ___          ~       e
o, Z



TUNISIA
'UNIS DIStRICT URBAN PLANNINC AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECI
SNT - Urban Bus and TGM Operations   Forecast Source and Application of Fur.ds 1972-81
(1 000)
TOTAL     lO-Y1Aî?
1972         1973       1974      1975       1976   1972-76   1977        78              1980      1961    1977-81       TOTAL
SOURCE 0F RINI>S____
Operating Lo6sres                                    (65)        (188)      (725j   (1,251)   (1,475)  (3704)  (1,691)  (1,972)  (2,278) (2,611)  (2911)  tl,463)  (15,167)
Depreciation                                         700          65;.       742       961      1,131   4,184    1,141    1,185    1,253   1,309   1,309          6,197    10,381
Governaent Compenaation _.Student Tariff8             -           950       1000     1,150      1,150   4,250    1,250    1,250    1,400   1,400   1,400          6,700    1(1,950
Net Additicoal Revenues                               - _                              666        762        8    1,515    1,571    2.231   2,313   2,398    10,028    11,456
Net Cash Revenue                                635        1,412     1,017      1,526      1,568   6,158    2,215    2,034    2,6o6   2,411   2,196    1 ,462    17,620
Propoaed Bank LoW  and IDA Credit                                  40      3,119     3,468        599. .7,,226                                                               7,226
Other Louis and Credits                              601           52     lL259      1,1440 95          là305        1423     732       956      815      -2926 
* otal Source of Funds           1,236                                                     31204 6 .434  3   17.689    2.638    2,766    3,562   3.226   2,196  13 ,077
APPLICATICU O? FUNDS
The Project - Local Currency                                       58      1,404     1,605        276   3,343                                                                 3,343
Foreig  Exchange                                    J       3,2145    3,.611        624  7,52$                                                                 7,525
Other Cspital Expenditure                           1507                                                 2.673       502       870    1,36 - 
Total Investaents                             1,50          !43-   - 4,649      5,^216     1,736  13,541        502      B70    1,136       969      -        3,477    17,016
Debt Service
Interest Charges on,
Proposed Bank/IDA Funds                                     14       161        372        514   1,061       523       516       501      484     466      2,490      3,551
Other 10ans and Credits                       131          132       170        231        290      954      306       310       344      384      372     1,716      2,670
A*ortiaation:
proposed Bnnk/IDA Funds                                                                                      102       216       231.    248       256     1,053      1,053
Other Loans and Credits                       324          360        350       429               1.952       5°4      547       429      528      628     2,636      4,588
Total Debt Service                            455          506       681      1,032      1,293   3,967    1,435    1,589    1,505   1,644   1,722          7,895    11,862
Increase (Decrease) in Non-Cash
Working Capital                              (724)         200         _        200        _       (324>   50  0                 700      700      600      JOgp       2   474
Total Application of Pund6                      1.238        1.139      5J.1      6,4        30      17.184    2.437    2,95       3.341   3,313   2,322    14,372             6
Cash at Beginning of Year                          42           40        405       470        456       42       547      748       555      776      689        547         42        |
Cash at End of Year                                40          405        470       456        547      547      748       555       776      689      563        563        563     n   H
Debt Coverage Ratio                                 1.4          2.8        1.5       1.5        1.2      1.6       1.5      1.3       1.7      1.5      1.3        1.5        1.5
L!   <overnment Compensation per Article 23 SNT Statutes, for student and other special reduced tariffs.
2   Net additional revenues from tariff increases (15% in 1975, 1977 and 1979 on urban bus and 15% in 1975/76 on TQM operations) and/or Government subsidy
in lieu thereof.
June 29, 1973



TU.;ISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBA; PLANNINI AIND PUBLIC TRANSPOR-I
SNT - Urbar Bus and T(E Qyerkions - Balance Sheets as at December 31. 1°.1-81
1971        1972     1973    197j       1975    1976     1977      1978      1979      1980       1981
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Bank                              42         40       405      470      456      547       748      555       716       689       563
Accounts Receivable                     1,043      1,043     1,043   1,043    1,043    1.,043    1,043    1,043      1,043    1,043      1,043
Stocks and Investments                  1.824      1.624     1.624   1,624    1,72      1,74    1,874    2074        2.474    2,874      3,274
Total Current Assets                       2,909      2,707      3,072   3,137    3,223    3,364    3,665    3,672       4,293    4,606      4,880
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                           11,942      13,449    13,882 18,531   23,747   25,483   25,985.  26,a5        27,991   28,960    28,9-o
Less:Accumulated Depreciation                6,952      7,652     8,302   9>044   10,005   11,136   12>277   13,462    14,715   16,024    17,333
Total Net Fixed Assets                       4,990      5,797      5,580  91487   13,742   14,347   13i708   13,393    13,276   12, 5`3é    11,627
Total Assets                                 7,899      8,504      8.652 12 624   16,965   17,711   17,373   172065    17,569   17,542         6 507
LIABILITIES
Total Current Liabilities                  2,437      2,961     2,761   2,761    2,661    2,711   .2,311    2,011        1,711]   1,411      1,211
Long Term Debt
Proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit                               hO   3,159    6,627    7,226    7,124    6,908       6,677    6,429       6,173
Other Long Term Debt                    1,322       a9       1.291   2         3,       3,675       5      3779       4,306    4,593      3,965
Total Long Term Debt                       1,322      1,599     1,331   5,359    9,838  :io,o90   10,718   10,687    10,983   11,022    10,138-
Equity
Capital                                 2,655      2,655     2,655   2,655    2,655    2,655    2,655    2,655        2,655    2,655      2,655
Reserves and Retained Earnings          1.485      1,289     1,905   1,849    1,811    1,444  1,689         ,712      2,220   LI 454      2.503
Total 4quity                                   4,140      3,944i    4,560   4,504    4,466    4,099    4,344    4,367        4,875    5,109      5,158
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              7,899      8.504      8 652  12=624      965    7 711   17,373   17,065       779 52    165 07                 a 
Long Term Debt/Equity                          24/76      29/71      23/77   54/46    69/31   73/27    71/29    71/29        69/31    68/32      66/34 o'     f 
April 26, 1973






ANNEX 15
Page 1
Table 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT TIRBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Exiting Tarifi System on Urban Operations
Bas
Full TarifT     Semi Tariff      ekly Tickets
Sections              (m li1  )       (<i l1inme)       ( l±limes)
1                      30             15                250
2                      40             20                330
3                      50             25               400
h                      60             30                480
s                      70             35                570
6                      80             ho                650
7                      90             45                720
8                     100             50                800
9                     110             55             1,200
10                     120             60              1,500
il                     130             65
12                     140             70
13                     150             75
14                     160             80
15                     170             85
16                     180             90
17                     190             95
18                     200            100
19                     210            105



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Table 1 Cont'd
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PANING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Annual                    AnnMal
Annual Tickets          Student Tickets    Tickets for Civil Servants
(mdllimes-)              (millimes)              (mimes)
22,000                   3,h5o                   30,000
26,000                   4,350                   28,000 (Route 20)
32,500                   5,050
38,000                   8,800
43,000                   9,000 )
) Route 20
51,000                  11,000 j
31,000 (Route 20)



TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
TGM
Full Rate            Reduced  Rate
( IeUMs                 (muli)mes)
lst Class  2nd Class    lst Class  2nd Clas1
Single Tickets                                  140       90              95         60
Bus Routes 20 - 20A
PMul  Rate  Reduced Rate
(millimes) (millimes)
Section Tickets:  1 section                      65        40             45         30          40          30
2 sections                   115        75             80         50          60          45
3 sections                   140        90             95         60          80         60
*4 sections                   -          -               -         -         100          70
5 sections                    -          -               -         -         120          85
6 sections                    -                          -         -         140        100
Return Tunis-Marsa                    265      175             140         90        180         100
Return Tickets                                  265      175                -         -         180           -
Special Return Tickets                          140.      90               -          -         100
Weekly Tickets                                   -       500               -          -  . 
Annual Tickets
Tunis-Goulette-Marsa                        46,50o   31,000
(certain discounts apply for
periods less than a year)
Student Tickets
(i,vailable lot Oct. to 3Oth June
inclusive ,public holidays and
Sundays excluded)
Tunis-Goulette-Marsa                                                16,000    11,000
Goulette-Marea                                                      13,500      9,000
(certain discounts apply for periods                            
of less than a year)
Tickets for Civil Servants (nnuama           42,000   28,000
Miscellaneous Traffic
Other tariffs apply to (i) Special trains; (ii) Baggage; (iii) Merchandise; (iv) Annuals;(v) Packages,Cycles,etc.






ANNE 16
Page 1
TIJNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRÂNSPORT PROJECT
ECONOqIC ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction
1.        One of the main objectives of the project is to provide efficient
and economic public transport for a majority of Tunis' population.  Full
benefits associated with the project, such as increased accessibility to
urban activities and avoidance of xceasive outlays for urban highways, are
not quantified. Therefore, the estimated returns on the project understate
overafl benefits accruing to the Tunis metropolitan area.
2.        The quantified benefits in the economic analysis focus on three
elements:
(a)  savings from reduced operating costa on the bus and rail
transport;
(b) savings due to the additional trips by public transport
induced by the project, which would otherwise have been
made by more costly private automobile; and
(c)  time savings to the "captive" patrons' rail transport.
3.        In the following analysis it was assuedci that lancd use and
the structure of the tianéport aécbor remaiaon- a5tat.  The rateS -
of economic return were calculated separately for the bus and railway
components as follows:
B.   The Bus Component
4.        The project is to finance:
(i) improved maintenance facilities;
(ii)  replacement of buses that have exceeded their economic life;and
(iii) expansion of the SNT bus fleet to meet the vehicle
requirements for 1973-75.
5.        The returns on each of these three sub-components were computed
according to the following assumptions:



AmiNE 16
Page 2
(i)  maintainance cost increases with the age of the
vehicle;
(ii) rate of bus availability decreases inversely with the age
of a vehicle;
(iii)  fuel and movement costs depend on the number of buses
on the road;
(iv) acÈinistrative cost per bus decreases vith the successive
phases of project implementation; and
(v)  finally, estimates were made of the number of potential
car users that could be retained on public transport as
a re8ult of the project. The costs of passenger-kilometers
by private and public transport vere eutimated and the
differential economic co9t vwas considered as a loss to the
coxmmnity for every trip made by the more expeonive trans-
port mode.
Rates of Return
6.        A comparison was made of the effects on operating coats of
building the proposed maintenance depot and replacing the aged vehicles -
as against no improvement. For expansion of the fleet, an analysis of the
irivestment timing vas undertaken in order to assess the delayed effects
on ridershiD and operating coste. The incremental analysis on the bus
component showed that the highest rate is obtained when all three inter-
related elements were imoroved concurrently.
(i)  The aïia_ys o showed that cost savings from improved
maintenance and operations gradually increaseds with the
maximim savings being achieved by 1980 if al! three bus
components are undertaken simultaneously. Maintenance
on new buees in that year would be reduced to 19% of the
1973 level and the average maintenance cost per bus (with
vary-ing annual fleet composition) would be brought down
to 4S% of the present level.  However, the disaggregated



ANNEX 16
Page 3
analysis showed that the investment in improved mainten-
ance without vehicle replacement would be an uneconomic
proposition.  The maintenance costs per vehicle rise in
proportion to the average age of the fleet even with the
improved maintenance facilities. Thun this investment
should not be undertaken independently vithout the concur-
rent investment in the other related bus cotponents.
(ii) The inter-dependent nature of maintenance and vehicle
replacement is reinforced by the analysis of the replace-
ment subcomponent. Without proper maintenance, the
replacement of old vehicles would have little impact, as
the serviceable life of new vehicles would be deareased
by about half that obtainable with ixproved maintenance.
When the savinga from reduced operating costa are taken as
benefits, the combined investment in improved maintenance
and bus replacement yieldl i-ra-E  oUurnôof T9r,
(iii) The consequence of providing proper maintenance and replace-
ment but no additional vehicles would bé continued over-
crowding, discomfort and inability to capture anticipated
traffic growth. As the. replacement of old vebicles would
be sufficient to accommodate the present level of tratfic
and future replacement needa would not be met, potential
traffic would be lo8t to other forme of travel. The
expansion of the bus  fleet combined with the provision
of adequate maintenance and vehicle replacement assures
greater reliability of service, adequate capacity, and
lower overall costs of operation as the age composition
of the fleet declines appreciably.  The addition of the fleet-
expansion subcomponent to the combined investment in
maintenance and vehicle replacement would increase the
rate of return to 29-30%.
7.        The additional benefits related to fleet expansion are attributable
to the savings accruing to the comminity (i.e., reduced resource costs) as
a result of inducing potential caruser  too publlc  -
transport. A detailed analysis of the anticipated rate of motorization,
income levels of automobile owners, and consumer resistance to the poor
quality public transport in Tunis indicated that 12% of the potential car
usera could-be retained on the improved bus system (See Table 1 ).
8.        The amount of savings were calculated by multiplying the antici-
pated passenger kilometers that could be induced to remain on the bus with
the proJect by the difference in cost of personal travel by private
automobile and bus in Tunis (see Table 2 ).



ANNEX 16
Page 4
9.        This difference was estimated to be 20.6 millimes per passernger
kilometer. It is the difference between the economic cost of providing
bus transport ai 4.1 millimes per pass-lo and that of automobile at
24.7 millimes.1  The "economic cost" in this sense includes the capital
and operating costs, and the road maintenance coste, prorated to the size
and weight of each mode. The timing of investment in the expansion of
fleet is crucial if the buses are to capture anticipated additional
passenger traffie.
C.  The TGM Railway Conponent
10.       The TOM rolling stock purchases and the associated outlays are
urgently needed to renew the present obsolete and overaged equipment and
to ensure continuation of this railway line which would othervise cease
to exist in a few years.  As shown in Annex 6 , the analysis of six
alternative approaches to TGM modernization has led to the conclusion that
the replacement of present stock with new electrically powered equipment
is the most economic solution.
il1       To determine the economic foasibility of railwa»y modernisation, a
comparison vas made of the effects of implementing the project as againot no
improvement on TGM. In the absence of the project, the mont realistic nvithout"
situation vould be the coploete abandonment of the TC?I rail service by
1977, with a gradual introduction of busses on the parallel road (defined
as Alternative B in Annex 6 ). Severe congestion in this corridor durina
the siumer monthis (Jun - September) vould necessitste inveatments
to increase road capacity to acco mmdate both bus and automobile traffic,2
Rates of Return
12.      The rate of return of the railway cmponent foeuses on four main
quantifiable benefits:
(î) reduction in operating costs;
(ii) foregone capital cost of providing bus services with the
demise of the railvay;
(iii) avoidable costs of private automobile use; and
(iv) user time savings.
i,' The oost of bus transport is one-sixth that of private automobile. This
ra .o is consistent with that found in the latest study dealing with a
comparison of urban travel economic costs in the U.S.
Marshall F. Reed, "Comparison of Urban Travel Economic Costs:  Technical
Study Memorandum No. 6, Highway Users Federation, February, 1973.
2' Included a the foregone cost of bus service, see Table 3.



Page 5
13.       Of the total number of trips which vould be lost by public
transport vithout the project, about 25% vould be made by car.  The
relatively higher percentage of potential automobile trips (as compared
with 12% for the bus component) anticipated without the project is due
to the necessity of long distance commuting (19 kn) by motorized transport
between the northeast corridor and Tunis. An additional reason is due to
the relatively rich inhabitants reïiding in the northern part of this
corridor served by the rai±.vY
14.       Time savings are obtained with the project from less wai.ting
and running tim, a reduced number of breakdovna, and less ccng estion.
Keeping with common practice, the time value adopted was one-third of the
hourly salary of travellers for trips made during the peak and half that
value in off peak periods. Time of school ch±Idren was valued at zero,.
and waiting time wa  valued at 1 .2 to 1.4 tines that of rânndTA tie.                 -
15.       The benefit and cost atreams are presetted in Table 3. The
computation of these benefits and costs show   that the rates are most
sensitive to the cost of accowuodating additional passenger traffic by
private automobile in the absence o! the project.  The project is
expected to induce a 33% fall in the traffic by private automobile which
would otherwise materialize. The corresponding additional bus users vould
constitute about 25% of the anticipated Ùncrease of bus ridership. How-
ever, rates o! return vere also calculated for lover values of the latter
proportion.  The result of this sensit±vity analysis iS indicated below:
(1) 17.3% when the proportion of induced traffic on the bus
is assuxmd to be 25% of future pasaenger movement.
(2) 13.9% when the proportionris assumed to be 18%.
(3) 10.5% when the proportion is reduced to 11%.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PI&NG AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Anticipated Number of Trips by Private Automobile
i.n Metro! 1-itan Tunis
(1 )        _ (2)4                          3)- 
Without           with             Numnber Retained o  the
Year               Project           Project          Bti vith Project.
1973                32.0 /1           32.0                      0
1974                33.3              30.4                    2.9
1975                34.7              26.4                    8.3
1976                36.1              24.3                  11.8
1977                37.6              25.3                  12.3
1978                39.2              26.3                  12.9
1979                40.7              27.4                  13.3
1980                42.4              28.5                  13.9
1981                44.1              29.7                  14.4
1982                45.9              30.9                  15.0
1983                47.8              32.2                   15.6
.9811 49.8                            33.5                  16.3
1985                51.8              34.9                  16.9
Cumijlativa
Total:           535.4             381.8                 153.6
/1  In 1973 publie transport shaUd carry 171.4 million pasaengers in TimiB (17.8
Lj SNCFT, 136.7 by the SNT buses asmd 16.9 by the TGM), or 76.1% of a1i motorized
trips. The private car should carry 14.2% of all motorized trip8, i.e.,
32 million passengers.
/2 Difference between colizuns 1 and 2.
Source: Mission estimate8.



!   ANN    16
Page 7
Table 2
TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLANNING AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT PROJECT
Coat of Travel by Bus and Private Automobile
Millimes Per PassenRer Milometera
Private Car/2                          BusL
Capital                     3.47                                 .41
Insurance                   2.08                                 .39
Fuel                        8.35                                 .96
Lubricant                   0.42                                 .11
Tires                       3.03                                 .24
Contribution to infra-
structure maintenance
in Tunis                   0.40                                 .16
Maintenance of Vehicle      6.95                                 .38
Admin. & Building            -                                   .38
Movement                     -                                   '97
Total                    24.70                                4.10
/1   In 1973 millimes.  1 millime   -D .001
2_   The average purchase prices of automobile and buses were eatimated at
D 1,000 and D 15,000 respectively. The average load was assuned to
be 1.8 on the private automobile and 36 on the bus.
Source: Mission estimates.



ANNEX 16
Table 3
TIJNISII
TNIS DISTRICT  BAN PLLMI AND PUBLIC TRAPORT POJECT
Cost/Bmefit àna].ysis for TG< Railway
(1973 D '000)
capital
Year            coegt                          Beofits
Capital    sav1ngs in    Saving in    tia
ooat      oPeraLifng    transport      saving
xregone    owt           cost aa to   for captive
pot.ential    public
car usera    transport
retained     ridera
on private
19.73            208.6                                   -
1974           I,781.0
1975           1,77.3             -        l.3         185.4         29.9
1976                                      196.0        329.6         57.9
1977                                      196.0        329.6         63.7
1978                         1,074.5      125.7        412.0         67.4
1979                           300.5       48.5        412.0         76.7
1980                                       42.6        412.0         84.9
1981                                       39.9        412.0         59.4
1982                                       36.5        391.4         68.9
1983                                       30.2        391.4         78.8
1984                                       33.7        391.4         89.2
1985                                       30.9        391.4        103.3
residual
value        (2,548.9)     ( 712.1)
Rates of return:
16%  17%
Source: Missian estimates.



llJNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PLAN-N    AND URBAN TRANSPO1T PROJECT
TENTATIVE TIMHEABLE FOR PROJECT IMPIEMENTATION
.1973                                   1974                                     1971k
J  F  M  A  M  J    _ A          _O_N   J   F  M  A 'Mi J  J 'AS  O  N  D  à  F_  M               M  J  J  _AS 0  NO
Prpaation of Procurement U'rough IcI
(TOM rolting Stock, but depot)
Dusidspccitiections
Advort.ng nd ui for twndeai
* iaf ci teoder profMfai.Oî
*Op.rinn of bide. évaluation
cositrac negotIiuItio
TGM Component
PMrn chnn 6,1373                                                                             mnk
sionuliuaUion
tub-stations
Dopi ,idornlzation
Fanclng
Roling tiock
Bui Composnen
Mwçh 5.1973                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~woeidBank-7U2(il>






TUNISIA
TUNIS DISTRICT URBAN PL1NING AND U}RBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF SNT
GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION                  FINANCE                    OPERATIONS                 ENGINEERING                    PL
Secretary                  Central Accounting                                      Works                       Economic and
Secretary   Central Accounting   Trallic  Workt   .      Social Studios
Salaries and Wages         Analysis                      MAdin                     Maintenance                 Technicatl Developrnent
Personnel                  Information                   Administration            Overhauls                   Tariff Studies
Claims                     Budget and Control            Cash Handling             TGM Depot                   Training Methods
Social Welfare             Managorment Services          Season Tickets            Track and  ondside          Comnputer Projects
and Health-        . Supplies                         Fat-es                        Equipment               Annuel Report
Training                   Contracts                                                                           Oporational Research
Worid Bank - 7se9






o~~~    l\
'<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[ Il IIIK:
X~~~~~ X re  Hi t~ 
f  <   j4  ::  ,A  Â`F-,E.u.:7 ................ ', `'é|~~~~~~~~o\o~-






IBRD 10420
x   v   >                                                                I  li - -   -  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAY w?7
TUNISIA                                 \                                                                                                                                                                           ,, Tunis
TUNIS
Administrative Boundaries                                                        \                                              /
and General Land Use                                                                                                                                                                                              ZUNSA
-- D îsIrct bosndary                               \z>                                    I                    ,                                                                                                     v
----Municipal boundarien                                \           -                         i!(r\                                                                                -                      ruinrc  d e            f
----Boundaries of main study ornas                        -                                              _-_
Parkndsro anarenuns                                              I                    /'                     '                        Sebih e t                                               -Z :   fnu n
, :~ :O:.' in5nî,uitonai areas                                                                                                           tr ,u I   I   /   \,
tj Rnsidnntial armas under consflruci,on        \     |       |1                                           \        ~        «\=
7 , ReidnsInnI   areas plannnd                       \9|   /                                           /         \t           fin                                                   li/7'  
_Railsoada     f   4 
pl.-d ~ ~ ~~-
Roods                   <~~~~~~~~\          \                   /\           ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                    v      \      \        3   Gll L~~~~~~~~~~LA  fUARSA
-'a
------a                  i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Z                                                        
MILES                No                                                                                                        (/8    hi                                            G4LE7






TUNISIA
TUNIS BUS ROUTES
_____                         I Kbne N-P.', de Fre'ile         12  P   & lAtrKMhe (Pid de  ees |'                                                   t 12
2 K,b. Pe dN eINie Pod,         13  E' FirNe e-tEst lEeo le
-7                               3 AeDeegblerd                    14       e     1Eretr°.i  YETee
BdP  rcates  d t erronos    3A J Ir -Merd REPS               15  J Themru- tre Ereeh-o,
-_-____ -                                 4B j Teereene15B '   Ihee. -Ere ü                  o    Il
___                             5A   i  Berirobe-(le El Nddr     28P P de Ikfteq-Bb ,eMd.eenereN  de Cerrrege
5Av, D-eorqhe- El Meehue         29  Ee Mesà  Ried-Oellee'5
*       F2re sîcges                  5C Az, N DNurgebe-îEe orerA       30  J      -lreCee-ile Eriher pE.  eded
O       8Ntops                      7  Prd  ei.ere- MieeEe           32  Eleresd                                                                                             5
rEi . w  TGM Llne     8  r de   JArdue eIeduiy         36  Ree dE R-e ehNEEe làete,
9  C  e    eN Nebeire            38  E EBOulEe C-eih-me*r
h    t aL 1 ap c res   1i   r de IrNfArqC  eNbel Eh..er  43  Pert Ne dr-re Eanejeh
A     200    400   6dO    SCO   1,000   0    20p    40C    CC   ECO   _             000                                                                                                                      C-IRGJ
ClEE
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
:14
MOOitdeee                                                                                                  4 =*b9SL>i   B  e  I v e d  e  r e    8    ';    -        -  Se- e"
XL ; *« ~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                       3  >g   ;p  C kFAT *Lb8j 
900005  -  -    N~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ï   M
-                    W 
- Si-    \  d        b  }  ,4  7 - - - - - tQ CI-
a,d,'s,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,,  ",u                                                        : - - -                                                 é1F                       D                                 .
32  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---         
400  '                                          - -  `  -    -    -  -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -
;: : : h   rE                            :                                   f f:                                                        5 S ; ;                       X    +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c:J
0  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t E E C ? ~- =    T U N = S I r                         -  _ __-  -   -   -   -   -   -     -   -   -   _
2F5ZFCnArn  -nePLA                                     -  - - - -    - - - - - 
T          U  N    1=   S            * A  - --- -- -- -- - ---
--    20~~~~~~   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - ~ ~ -     --    -    --  
N               I






IBRD 10423
MAY 1973
TUNISIA
TUNIIS                                                             -          ,
;TUN-- ,sCorniche
Northeast Corridor TGM line                                     LA  MARS
' Double track, electrified TGM line                            L4 Archevéche             "\
M    Stations                                                                                Io' S IDI
6s- Contour l nes (20 m. interval)                            J'       Sidi Soïd                       BOU
Built-up arecs                                                                                      SAfÏD
---     Municipal boundaries                                        C
..- Carthage-Am~ilcar
3~~~~
Kilom,lers                   2             | os-'        Prs Jnce    40
O    ~ie                                                'NJ/C AR          GE
,  I-  AR
Carthage-Derm          a
zw    >                                                      /                j;7-  (                 Gulf of Tunis
L ak  of  -        f       Tu n I'
Ca to   Neuveds    N7                                             CRTA
J  LA  GOLETTE;f J
L ake        cf        Tunis                     >rW           ne        ._______________:__
*   ,/f    ; .a/   .      0~ 2   4   6   S t         
f E I   8 a h i r a J      X  r  GGuS  -Casino               K,ion,oters                            A A 
/  2  .  g             M i l e s  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~501BS lDl   SA'
MFIe0
"     og<)l~~~eTTe-NeUvv                              ARIANA  .       Uo~        CARTHAGEF
&   /7Lo-G,of etTe                                       -<éL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI<RAM
*    *   4                             I~~~~~~~~~~~AMIANOUBAi  :ak of r,,
X                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SA»        (E BaE,a A           GOLET
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MON
BETLASOUS     RAS
EL-ZAHNE
0   /                                    .                    ) tF             /      R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAMMAM LIF 






IBRD 10424
MAY 197L
TUNISIA                                                                                                                             Tos
TU N IS I% :
Traffic Improvement Program                                                                                                                         s'
TUNISIA
Type of rsprovumeot cf niersecOons                                 -                                                                                 A
7    Recesigo                                                                                      
£  Redes gn and sîgnals
Rodes gn, s gna s and
pedesfrran underpass                                                                                                      .. ...           dor
r__JS gnals                                   '-_entolb-udar-e   ;L;
lePedestr,cn underpass                                                     -eouoii a e dbpA
i                             lmd/g~~~~~~~~oend Ore5fgeiiJ  cdOua YIh
Roads
RELVADERE   PAR K                         . 
Ra,llrods.                                       -                                    --
Bou~~~
oronc,eîII4
Mo~~~
.M' -l'a-s ;                                                                                                     .               '
.... ...... ... ....
* ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ,4
o~ ~~                                                           , a                                 ' i                   ' 0150
.us,usOURu.~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~                                            " e,    '   "                 ', -i                     \
.~~~~~~~00                                              '                    <                     .              -                                   - - 
'                                            "'                                        '      O         "'" .                       ''          '"',''S
Melassine                           -              P<!EDE tA                                                . 3E
X                                                                     ViCTOIEtE                       _                             .                3~~~~~~0030dmLi



