CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 937 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Project Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 937 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Project Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS (hereinafter called
SNT).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SNT agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has also agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement but only on
condition that SNT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth,
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement (hereinafter called the SNT
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and SNT,
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, required for the carrying
out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, will be relent to SNT inter alia on
the terms and conditions as provided in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS SNT, in consideration inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan and Development Credit


﻿4
Agreements and in the General Conditions (as defined in the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"subsidiary" means any company or "tablissement public" effectively controlled
by SNT or by any one or more subsidiaries of SNT or by SNT and one or more
of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SNT shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, business,
financial, engineering and urban transport practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SNT in the preparation of specifications for
equipment, in the preparation of bidding documents and in bid evaluation under
Parts A, B and C of the Project, SNT shall employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project, SNT shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Bank anu' the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) SNT undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by SNT to replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree, SNT
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SNT shall furnish to the Bank and the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   SNT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement,
enable the Bank's and the Association's representatives to examine the Project,
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the Association all such information as
the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. SNT shall duly perform all its obligations under the SNT
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise
agree, SNT shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the SNT Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNT
Section 3.01. (a) SNT shall, at all times, manage its affairs, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound administrative,
business, financial, engineering and urban transport practices, under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by qualified and competent
personnel in adequate number.
(b)   SNT: (i) shall keep its staffing position under continuous review,
implement policies to improve utilization of manpower, and retain and train
sufficient qualified and experienced staff, in order to enable SNT to conduct its
operations efficiently; and (ii) for such purposes shall increase its staff only if


﻿6
managerial efficiency or the execution of the Project warrants the employment
of specialized personnel.
(c)   In order to assist its management and personnel in the management
and operation of its Urban bus Operations, SNT shall, during Project execution,
employ management consultants and consultants on bus maintenance and
operations acceptable to the Bank and the Association under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
(d)   In order to assist its management and personnel in the management
and operation of its TGM operations, SNT shall, no later than August 1, 1974
(or such other date as the Bank and the Association may agree), employ
management consultants and consultants on railway maintenance and operations
acceptable to the Bank and the Association under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) SNT shall, at all times, take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights (including but not limited to rights in respect of
land and easements), powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
for the efficient conduct of its business and for the execution and operation of
the Project and shall, if requested by the Bank and the Association, furnish to
the Bank and the Association promptly, evidence satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association that such rights, powers, privileges and franchises are available for
purposes related to the efficient conduct of its business and for execution and
operation of the Project.
(b)   SNT shall, at all times, operate and maintain its equipment and other
property and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and urban transport practices.
(c)   Until December 31, 1978, before undertaking or executing, for its own
account or for the account of any third party or parties, any new major project
or development related to its Urban Operations, other than Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project, or for other purposes than the increase of its bus fleet by more
than 110 buses for the 1976-1978 period, SNT shall first have satisfied the Bank
and the Association that such action would not interfere with its obligations under
this Agreement. For the purpose of this Section, the term "major project or
development" means any project or development with an investment character
resulting in estimated aggregate capital expenditures exceeding TD250,000 or the
equivalent, or such other amount as shall be agreed from time to time between
the Bank, the Association and SNT.
(d)   SNT shall, no later than December 31, 1975 (or such other date as
the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree), submit to the Bank and the


﻿7
Association, for review, technical and financial justification with respect to its
1976-1980 Urban Operations investment program.
(e)   Except in the normal course of business, SNT shall not, without the
prior approval of the Bank and the Association, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any part of its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. SNT shall insure, or make adequate provision for insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.04. (a) Before SNT shall take any action to create any subsidiary,
SNT shall first have satisfied the Bank and the Association that such action would
not interfere with its obligations under this Agreement or the SNT Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b)   SNT   shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to enter into any
undertaking which might interfere with SNT's obligations under this Agreement
or the SNT Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. No later than December 31, 1973 (or such other date as the
Bank and the Association may agree) SNT shall take all action necessary to
authorize its Pre'sident-Directeur Ginral to enter into contracts each in an amount
of up to TD 100,000 equivalent, without prior approval of SNT's board of directors.
SNT shall not rescind such authorization without prior consultation with the Bank
and the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) No later than April 30, 1974 (or such other date as the
Bank and the Association may otherwise agree) SNT shall submit to the Borrower,
the District, the Bank and the Association, for review and approval, a proposed
system of operating and financial performance targets relating to its financial
controls, staffing, organization, Urban bus and TGM Operations, traffic and
maintenance to be prepared with the assistance of the consultants referred to in
paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 and in paragraph (c) of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.
(b)   During Project execution, SNT shall report every six months to the
Borrower, the District, the Bank and the Association on results derived from
implementation of such operating and financial performance targets and after
Project execution to the Borrower and the District.
(c)   SNT shall review, each year, with the Borrower, the District, the Bank
and the Association such operating and financial performance targets and its
performance in meeting such targets.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SNT shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition. In particular SNT shall, starting with the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1973 (or such other fiscal year as the Bank and the Association
may agree) maintain separate accounts for its Urban and Inter-Urban Operations.
Section 4.02. (a) For the audit of its accounts and financial statements (as
such financial statements are described in the following paragraph) SNT shall, at
all times, employ independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Association.
(b)   SNT   shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the independent auditors referred to in the foregoing paragraph; (ii) furnish
to the Bank and the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank and the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SNT and
the audit thereof as the Bank and the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   In order to assist SNT in the use of modern managerial control and
cost accounting procedures, SNT shall employ a consultant acceptable to the Bank
and the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) SNT shall no later than June 30, 1975 (or such other
date as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree) revise its Urban
Operations tariffs so as to effect an overall increase of its Urban Operations
operating income of not less than 15% to be effective as of such date (or such
other date as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree).
(b)   SNT shall take all such action as shall be necessary to request and
obtain, promptly as needed, funds that the Borrower has undertaken to provide
pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement.
(c)   Without limitation to the provisions of the foregoing paragraphs (a)
and (b) SNT shall (i) take all such steps as are necessary on its part (including
but without limitation, adjustment of its Urban and Inter-Urban Operations tariffs)


﻿9
to ensure that commencing with the fiscal year starting January 1, 1974, its Urban
and Inter-Urban Operations operating income covers its Urban and Inter-Urban
Operations operating expenses and its Urban and Inter-Urban Operations debt
service requirements in excess of depreciation; and (ii) unless the Bank and the
Association shall otherwise agree SNT shall no later than December 31, 1974
modify its Inter-Urban Operation tariffs to ensure that its Inter-Urban Operations
operating income covers its Inter-Urban Operations operating expenses and
Inter-Urban Operations debt service requirements in excess of depreciation.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term  "operating income" means all revenues from SNT's
operations and other revenues incidental thereto, including funds
to be provided by the Borrower to SNT pursuant to the
provisions of Article 23 of SNT Law as provided under paragraph
(a) of Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement.
(ii)        The term   "operating expenses" means all direct costs of
operation by SNT of its facilities, including administrative and
overhead costs, adequate maintenance expenses, and adequate
provision for depreciation and taxes, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
(iii)      The term    "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking funds payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)       The term "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(v)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery
of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt.
(vi)        Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by SNT
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank and the Association.


﻿10
Section 4.04. SNT shall, until the Bank has reviewed the recommendations
contained in the studies referred to under paragraph (e) of Section 3.03 and Section
4.04 of the Loan Agreement No. 746-TUN, dated as of June 9, 1971, between
the Borrower and the Bank, consult with the Bank and the Association prior to
incurring with respect to its Inter-Urban Operations any debt exceeding the amount
of TD250,000 maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, including any debt represented by bonds.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Bank, the Association and SNT shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan and the Credit will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank, the Association and SNT shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of SNT and other matters relating
to the purpose of the Loan and the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Bank, the Association and SNT shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit or the performance
by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by
the Borrower and SNT of their respective obligations under the SNT Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. SNT shall enable the Bank's and the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect all properties, sites, offices and equipment of SNT and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿11
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, the Association
and SNT thereunder shall terminate on the later of the following two dates:
(a)   the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(b)   the date on which the obligations of the Borrower referred to in
Section 6.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with the terms of such Section.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SNT:
Soci6t6 Nationale des Transports
1, Avenue Bourguiba
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
SONATRA
Tunis
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SNT may be taken or executed by its Prsident-Directeur General or such other
person or persons as such Prdsident-Directeur Gengral shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SNT shall furnish to the Bank and the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of SNT, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by SNT pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS
By /s / Slaheddine El Goulli
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for items included in Categories I, II and III
of the table set out in paragraph 1 to Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, SNT shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank and the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
and the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by SNT to the Bank and
the Association for their comments before the applicants are notified and SNT
shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, SNT shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association, for their comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's and the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SNT shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank and the Association of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank and the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report prepared
with the assistance of the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Bank and the Association shall, if they determine that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform SNT and the Borrower, and state the
reasons for such determination and advise SNT and the Borrower of any cancellation
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule I to the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿15
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
and the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
and the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Bank and the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of any such    r-+,
2.    With respect to any other contract for items included in Categories 1, II
and III of the table set out in paragraph I to Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, SNT shall furnish to the Bank and the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank and the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account and the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request. The Bank
and the Association shall, if they determine that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform SNT and the Borrower, and state the reasons for
such determination and advise SNT and the Borrower of any cancellation pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
B.   Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison for goods included
in Categories I and II of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Tunis) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to SNT of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation of bids
in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Categories I and II of the table set forth in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, SNT may grant a margin
of preference to goods manufactured in Tunisia in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:


﻿16
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia, if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of SNT and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia, other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿17
C.    Special Procedures Applicable to Construction Works and Goods included
in Categories V and VI of the table set out in paragraph 1 to Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement
(a)   Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement or included in the foregoing paragraphs of this Schedule, the Borrower
may, pursuant to paragraph 1.2(a) of the Guidelines for Procurement use procedures
other than international competition for equipment included in Category V of the
table set out in paragraph 1 to Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, that, such alternative procedures are acceptable to the Bank and the
Association.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs
of this Schedule the Bank and the Association may accept, pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 1.2(c) of the Guidelines for Procurement, that the works
included in Category VI of the table set out in paragraph I to Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement be procured pursuant to the Borrower's
standard procurement procedures.


