CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(hereinafter called  the Borrower) and   INTERNATIONAL      DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregated
principal amount equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000);
(C)   The Borrower has also requested the United Nations Development
Programme to provide financial assistance towards the financing of Part G of the
Project;
(D)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower's departments, agencies
and municipalities, by SNT (as this term is hereinafter defined) and by the District
(as this term is hereinafter defined), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SNT and the District part
of the proceeds of the Loan and Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(E)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of this Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures on the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth and in project agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and the Bank, on the one hand, and SNT on the other hand, and between the
Association and the Bank on the one hand, and the District on the other hand;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the SNT Project
Agreement, the District Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement";
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", the SNT Project
Agreement or the District Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement";
(e)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The terms 'SNT     Project Ag±eement' and   'District Project
Agreement' shall have the meanings set foffli in the Loan Agreement."; and
(f)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9.   The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the term  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as


﻿5
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   the term "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   the term "Loan Account" means the account established pursuant to
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)   the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement shall have the same
meanings in this Agreement as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the SNT Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on November i
and May 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each November I and May 1 commencing
November 1, 1983 and ending May 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. With respect to sub-categories I, 1I, III and IV of the table
set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, SNT is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. Articles III and V and Sections 4.02 through 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that: (i) all
references to the Bank in such Articles or in any of them shall be deemed to
be references to the Association, and (ii) all references to the Loan in such Articles
or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement or the Bonds shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken,
including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to the Articles of the Loan
Agreement enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be
taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association;
and all information furnished by the Borrower, SNT or the District to the Bank
pursuant to the provisions of such Articles, shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the Bank and the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the SNT Project
Agreement and the District Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the additional events specified in Section 7.02 of the Loan Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that: (i) all references to the Bank in
such Section shall be deemed to be references to the Association; and (ii) so long
as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds
shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken, including approvals given
by the Bank pursuant to such Section, shall be deemed to be taken or given in
the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association.


﻿8
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the additional events specified in Section 7.03 of the Loan Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that: (i) all references to the Bank in
such Section shall be deemed to be references to the Association; and (ii) so long
as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds
shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken, including approvals given
by the Bank pursuant to such Section, shall be deemed to be taken or given in
the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. (a) The following events are specified as additional conditions
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.0 1(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the conditions precedent
to the effectiveness, except the condition under paragraph (j) of Section 8.01,
of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
(b)   All references to the Bank in Section 8.01 of the Loan Agreement
shall be deemed references to the Association.
Sction 6.02. The date January 3 1, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03 and 4.04
of the Loan Agreement incorporated by reference in Article III of this Agreement
and the provisions relating to additional events referred to in Section 5.02 and
5.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-two years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿9
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan
Ministre du Plan
1 Rue de B6ja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
MINISTERE DU PLAN
1 Rue de B6ja
Tunis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s / Slaheddine El Goulli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
A.   SNT
I.         Purchase of buses             4,927,000         100% of foreign
and spare parts                                 expenditures or
under Part A of                                 45% of total
the Project                                     expenditures
(representing the
estimated foreign
expenditure compo-
nent)
II.        Equipment under               9,804,000         100% of foreign
Parts B and C of                                expenditures or
the Project                                     100% of the ex-
factory price for
items locally
manufactured
III.       Construction works            1,324,000         50% of total ex-
under Part B of                                 penditures (rep-
the Project                                     resenting the es-
timated foreign
expenditure
component)
IV.        Consultant services            497,000          65% of total ex-
under Part D of the                             penditures (rep-
Project                                         resenting the es-
timated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
Sub-Total         16,552,000


﻿AMR11
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed at          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
B.   Others
V.         Equipment under                 123,000          100% of foreign
Part F of the                                    expenditures
Project
VI.        Construction works              525,000          35% of total ex-
under Part F of                                  penditures (rep-
the Project                                      resenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure
component)
VII.       Consultant services             114,000          60% of totel ex-
under Part E of the                              penditures (rep-
Project                                          resenting the es-
timated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
VIII.      Consultant                      189,000          60% of total ex-
services under                                   pendit.res (rep-
Part H of the                                    resenting the es-
Project                                          timated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
IX.        Consultant                      497,000          35% of total
services under                                   expenditures
Part G of the
Project
Sub-Total           1,448,000
TOTAL              18,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
incurred after June 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above,
if the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the SNT Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan
and the Association or the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association or the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit or the Loan as in the Association's or the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category


﻿13
I, III, IV, VI, VII, VIII or IX shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association and
the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under any such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


