CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 937 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Project Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿CONFOR 4ED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 937 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 432 TUN
Project Agreement
(Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project for the Tunis District)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
DATED OCTOBER 5, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and DISTRICT DE TUNIS (hereinafter called the District).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the District agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has also agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
.~     condition that the District agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the District, in consideration inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan and Development Credit
Agreements and in the General Conditions (as defined in the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The District shall carry out Part G of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and urban planning, programming and supervision practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The District shall (i) be responsible for overall supervision of the
execution of the Project, and (ii) for the purpose of execution of the Project, ensure
adequate coordination among the consultant referred to in paragraph (a) of Section
3.03 of the Loan Agreement, the responsible personnel of the Borrower's ministries
and other public agencies, the responsible personnel of the Municipality of Tunis,
the consultants referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 3.01, and paragraph
(c) of Section 4.02 of the SNT Project Agreement, the responsible personnel of
SNT and the responsible personnel of the District.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the District in carrying out Part G of the
Project, the District shall employ:
(a)   the consultants listed in paragraph (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association;
(b)   the counterparts to the consultants referred to under paragraph (a)
of this Section listed in paragraph (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c)   no later than January 1, 1975 the additional personnel listed in
paragraph (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The District shall (i) furnish to the Bank and the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, and any other
documents pertaining to Part G of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall
reasonably request, and (ii) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part G of the Project (including the cost thereof).
Section 2.04. The District shall maintain a Technical Coordinating Committee
as provided under Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The District shall, in carrying out Part G of the Project, carry
out the work program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Tunis District
Section 3.01. The District shall, at all times, manage its affairs, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, and urban planning, programming and
supervision practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent
management (including a Directeur Gendral) assisted by qualified and competent
personnel in adequate number.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the District shall not undertake or execute, for its own account or for the account
of any third party or parties, any new project or development other than Part
G of the Project, which might interfere with its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenant
Section 4.01. The District shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Bank, the Association and the District shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan and the Credit will be accomplished.
To that end, the Bank, the Association and the District shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of the District and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Loan and the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Bank, the Association and the District shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere


﻿6
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit or the
performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The District shall enable the Bank's and the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect all properties and offices of the District and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, the Association
and the District thereunder shall terminate on the later of the following two dates:
(a)   the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(b)   the date on which the obligations of the Borrower referred to in
Section 6.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with the terms of such Section.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the District:
District de Tunis
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
DISTU
Tunis
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the District may be taken or executed by the Governor-Mayor of Tunis or
such other person or persons as the Governor-Mayor of Tunis shall designate in
writing.


﻿8
Section 7.03. The District shall furnish to the Bank and the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of the District, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the District
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
By /s/ Slaheddine El Goulli
Authorized Representative


﻿w                                     9
SCHEDULE 1
Work Program of the District
I.    INITIAL PHASE AND PERMANENT RESPONSIBILITIES
(a)   General Urban Strategy and Planning Studies
(i)         Preliminary Tasks:
-     final review and determination of the timetable to carry out
the work program of the District
establishing the methodological framework to serve as reference
for all future studies, whether theoratically or practically
oriented
-     review  of existing data and studies, including review     and
synthesis of the data and results of the studies of the UNDP
Tunis-Carthage Project
-     collection of additional data deemed required, and synthesis of
existing and additional data
spatial analyses of distribution of existing land uses
-     analysis of infrastructure networks (water supply, sewerage,
telecommunications) and of public services (education, health,
street cleaning and lighting, and garbage collection)
-     compilation and review of socio-economic characteristics of the
population
-     analysis of characteristics, and   origin-destination  data  on
transport movements in the District in relation with spatial
distribution of residence and employment, by population and
job category.
(ii)        Planning & Design Activities:
-     analysis of land use in areas considered for future residential
or industrial development, classified by type, infrastructure needs
and order of priority


﻿10
-     synthesis of all sector studies, completed or in process, pertaining
to the planning of the overall area of the District
-     proposals for short term improvements to existing land use and
infrastructure, and for changes in patterns of development
proposed previously
-     review of the role of the Tunis port area, its future with regard
to development of La Goulette and proposals for future
utilization of the port area and adjoining warehouse zones;
definition of the detailed land use studies to follow; coordination
of those studies with studies pertaining to the South-East and
downtown areas of the Municipality of Tunis
-     proposals on the choice of high priority site (or sites) for future
industrial and warehouse developments
-     synthesis of the above-mentioned analyses and proposals for the
purpose of elaboration of an urban development strategy for
the District and proposals for suitable infrastructure standards
-     definition of terms of reference for the Special Policy Studies
-     definition of terms of reference for the follow     up feasibility
studies referred to under paragraph III of this Schedule.
(b)   Coordination   and Programming Exercise of the public investment
budget following the principles set forth in the District Organization Decree.
(i)          For 1974 (a posteriori):
-     identification of items to be subject to further study in the
principal sectoral operations in the proposed 1974 budget
-     analysis of the points of conflict and preparation of additional
studies.
(ii)         For subsequent years:
-     in view of the studies carried out under (a) above, identification
of the principal sectoral operations to be considered for inclusion
in the public investment budget for the year


﻿-     identification of optimal actions; definition of their priority
allocation and spatial distribution
-     study of provisional proposals by ministries and public agencies
-     adaptation in terms of coordination and optimization of actions;
subsequently, adjustment of budget proposals
-     presentation of an integrated annual investment budget.
(c)   Supervision
-     finalization  of detailed  procedures defining    the District's
supervisory role
-     supervision of public and private industrial and residential real
estate development undertakings
-     supervision of the granting of permis de lotir and building
permits
supervision of the traffic engineering and control studies to be
undertaken by the Municipality of Tunis to relieve the immediate
and medium term traffic problems; integration of these studies
in the transport policy framework to be developed under
paragraph 11(c) of this Schedule
-     supervision of the work to be done by consultants to SNT in
recommending changes to the existing fare structure; integration
of this work in the policy framework to be developed under
paragraph 11(b) of this Schedule
-     supervision of all studies, including feasibility studies, in process
or contemplated, dealing with problems relevant to the
development of the District.
II.   SPECIAL POLICY STUDIES
(a)   Study of housing problems in the District. This study will include in
particular:
analysis of population growth


﻿12
census of dwellings; analysis of housing conditions and costs in
relation with socio-economic characteristics of the population
-     review of past public programs and actions by the private sector
-     definitions  of   options  (improvement, renewal, new       site
development)
-     estimates of costs (infrastructure, superstructures, amenities)
-     identification of economic and financial constraints
-     suggested short and medium-term     programs.
This study shall comprise all the elements justifying the programming
alternatives proposed to the authorities.
(b)   Study of Fiscal Problems at the District level:
-     identification of the impact of the present systems on land use
patterns
-     definition of alternatives and suggestions for improvements.
(c)   Urban Transport Policy Study:
-     examination of present pricing and charging policies for public
and private transport, within the framework of national policy
on the subject
-     review   of  the  role  of   the  private  sector in  providing
transportation   and   of  the   implications  of   encouraging
competition in the transport sector, within the framework of
national policy on the subject
-     proposal of general or specific public transportation measures
to be taken to meet to the maximum extent the needs of the
customers
-     recommendations on measures and projects giving priority to
public transport, particularly street parking regulations and
reserved bus lanes


﻿13
-     proposals on public transport tariff structures to encourage
public transport patronage and lead to a more rational land use
pattern
-     recommendation of transport development  programs based on
the above general policy proposals.
III. FEASIBILITY STUDIES
(a)   Sectoral Study on Housing:
(i)        Study of one or more areas of the Municipality of Tunis Medina:
-     review of existing studies on socio-economic conditions and on
the legal status of land
-     critical evaluation  and  completion of existing studies on
infrastructure and superstructure
-    development of necessary cost estimates
-     financial and economic studies
-     definition of alternative programs.
(ii)       Study of spontaneous housing developments:
-     studies of general socio-economic conditions (will be based on
the data obtained by the housing study of the District and the
surveys to be carried out)
-     definition of social and environmental typologies
-     identification of one or more dynamic zones capable of being
adequately supplied with infrastructure and public services to
improve living conditions of the resident population
-     comprehensive study of ways of improving this zone; if reducing
its density is recommended, the identification and development
of one or more new areas will have to be considered
concommitantly.


﻿14
(iii)       Study of other sites for low income housing development:
-     identification of suitable areas for this type of residential
development
-     determination of areas of commercial activity
-     determination of minimal infrastructure and public services
requirements
-     cost estimates
-     study of financial and economic factors
-     program for execution.
(iv)        Synthesis of the above three elements (renewal, upgrading and
new site development) into a three-pronged implementation
program consistent with resource constraints.
(b)   Feasibility study of high priority sites for industrial and warehouse
development, to be based on analyses carried out under paragraph I(a) of this
Schedule:
-     study of development alternatives
-     detailed study
-     preparation of land use plans and cost estimates, including roads,
water, sewerage and electricity
-     financial and economic study.
(c)   Redevelopment study of the old port area and adjoining warehouse
zone, to be based on preliminary analyses developed in paragraph I(a) of this
Schedule:
-     study of redevelopment/urban renewal in the old port area, its
relationship to land use in the adjacent area and in the city
center of the Municipality of Tunis
-     preliminary study of economic and social costs and benefits of
redevelopment.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants and permanent personnel to be
appointed for the purpose of assisting the
District in carrying out Part G of the Project
(a)  Consultants to be appointed before the Effective Date:
Seven experts
-     Chief Technical Advisor
-     Economist
-     Urban Economist/Planner
-     Housing and Site & Services Expert
-     Financial/Fiscal Analyst
-     Civil Engineer (Infrastructure and Public Utilities)
-    Transportation Planner/Engineer
(b)  Counterpart personnel to be appointed before the Effective Date:
Six professionals
-     Two Urban Economists
-     One Physical Planner
-     One Economist/Financial Analyst
-    Two Civil Engineers
(c)  Additional personnel to be appointed no later than January 1, 1975:
Eleven professionals
-     One Urban Economist
-     Two Physical Planners


﻿16
-    Three Economists/Financial Analysts
-    Two Public Administration Experts
-    One Civil Engineer
-    One Sociologist/Demographer
-    One Attorney.


