Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20608-ER
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.4 MILLION
(US$40.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
FOR
HIV/AIDS, MALARIA, STDS & TB (HAMSET) CONTROL PROJECT
November 27, 2000
Human Resources Development, Group IV
AFC06
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 8, 2000)
Currency Unit = Eritrean Nafka
I ERN = US$0.10
US$1 = ERN 9.77
FISCAL YEAR
January December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS      Acquired Immuno-deficiency syndrome          MOH        Ministry of Health
ARI       Acute Respiratory Infection                  MOI        Ministry of Information
BOD       Burdent of Disease                           MOLHW   Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                  MTCT       Mother-to-Child Transmission
CDC       Communicable Disease Control                 NACP      National AIDS Control Program
CFA        Community Facilitation Assistant            NCEW      National Confederation of Eritrean Workers
DCA       Development Credit Agreement                 NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
DDT       Dichlorodiphenyl Trychloroethane             NORAD   Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
DLY       Discounted Life Year                         NUEW       National Union of Eritrean Women
DOE       Department of Environment                    NUEYS   National Union of Eritrean Youth & Students
DOTS      Directly Observed Treatment Stratgy          NUW       National Union of Workers
IECD      Integrated Early Childhood Development       PHC        Primary Health Care
EDC       Essential Drug List                          PIM        Project Implementation Manual
EE        Environmental Evaluation                     PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PI       Expanded Program for Immunization            PMP       Pesticide Management Plan
AMI   Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute PMU     Project Monitoring Unit
*4     Female Genital Mutilation                    PSI        Population Services Intemational Program
Gross Domestic Product                      SCW        Social Change Worker
Government of Eritrea                       SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
AMSET  HIV/AIDS, Malaria, Sexually Transmitted        STDs      Sexual Transmitted Diseases
Diseases and Tuberculosis
HIV       Human Immune-Deficiency Virus                TA         Technical Assisstance
HNP       Health, Nutrition, Protection                TB         Tuberculosis
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction &      UNAIDS  United Nations Acquired Immuno-deficiency
Development                                            Syndrome
ICR       Implementation Completion Report             UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
IDA       International Development Association        UNHCR   United Nations High Commissioner for Refugee
IEC       Information, Education & Communication       UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
ITM       Insecticide Treated Material                 USAID    United States Agency for International Development
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative        WDR        World Development Report
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation                      WHO        World Health Organization
MLG       Ministry of Local Govemment                  ZCC        Zoba Coordination Committee
Vice President:      Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:      Ms. Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:       Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:        Ms. Eva Jarawan



ERITREA
HIV/AIDS, MALARIA, STDS & TB (HAMSET) CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    12
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        21
2. Financial                                                                        22
3. Technical                                                                        22
4. Institutional                                                                    24
5. Environmental                                                                    26
6. Social                                                                           28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30
2. Critical risks                                                                   30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31
G. Main Conditions



1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          32
2. Other                                                                            32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 1 1: HIV/AIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Sahara Africa
MAP(S)
IBRD 31065.



ERITREA
HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: November 27, 2000                            Team Leader: Eva Jarawan
Country Manager/Director: Oey Astra Meesook        Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P065713                                Sector(s): HB - Basic Health, HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Development;
Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[1  Loan    [X1 Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ]Guarantee      [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.00
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreiqn    -     otal
BORROWER                                                        7.53            0.92          8.45
IDA                                                            15.41           24.59         40.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               1.55            0.00          1.55
Total:                                                         24.49           25.51         50.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Project Management Unit (PMU) based in the Ministry of Health (MOH), in coordination with the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Medical Services of the Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare (MOLSW), Ministry of
Tourism, Transport and Communication Ministry of Local Govermnent, Ministry of Information, Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Land, Water and Environment and Zoba Governments.
Address: PMU, Ministry of Health, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Ministry of Health, Dr. Eyob Tekle
Tel: (291) 1 12 41 99               Fax: (291) 1 12 43 57              Email: pmu(gemel.com.er
Other Agency(ies):
National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students (NUEYS), National Union of Eritrean Women (NUEW), and National
Confedertion of Eritrean Workers (NCEW).
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
-   -FY    2 -^wt      001  2002  2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual    1.50        9.00       10.00       8.00      7.00       4.50
Cumulative    1.50       10.50      20.50      28.50     35.50      40.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/2001  Expected closing date:  03/15/2006
O.C  PAD F,:, r. t MM-_



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To reduce the mortality and morbidity of the Eritrean population due to HV/AIDS, malaria, sexually
transmitted diseases and tuberculosis (HAMSET) through an increase in utilization of quality, effective
and efficient health services for HAMSET prevention, diagnosis and treatment, supported by healthy
practices.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following expected outcomes would indicate that the project had been successful in meeting its
development objectives:
*   a stabilization in the HV seroprevalence among adults aged 15-24 years.
*   a reduction in Malaria death rate (in under five and pregnant women).
*   increase in the proportion of diagnosed and successfully treated new smear-positive TB patients.
*   a reduction in prevalence of severe anemia in women of child-bearing age.
The following expected outputs would indicate that project activities are being implemented adequately:
*   HAMSET managers at Zoba level can generate up-to-date epidemiological reports of their Zoba.
i   malaria epidemics detected within two weeks of onset and properly controlled.
-   children under five and pregnant women sleeping under insecticide treated nets.
*   pregnant women taking malaria prophylaxis.
e   population has access to condoms.
•   primary, secondary and technical education facilities using the new health education curriculum.
*   bednets re-impregnated.
3   STD cases correctly treated.
*   blood transfusions are safe.
*   health staff is trained on HAMSET diagnostic and treatment.
*   facilities in which basic drugs to treat HAMSET (AIDS- opportunistic infections) are available.
•   fever cases are managed correctly at home.
*   villages have community-managed HAMSET prevention and control interventions.
*   operational studies are undertaken.
*   research and monitoring findings are included in annual policy and planning reviews.
Studies to determine base-line data for most of the indicators listed above have been initiated or will be
carried out during the first year of the project. Target increments will be agreed upon after the first year of
implementation and will be calculated over those base-line figures. A very detailed and comprehensive list
of indicators to monitor progress of activities in different agencies has been agreed upon with Government.
Such list is included in the relevant PIM chapters.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15324             Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/05/96
(An Interim Transitional Support Strategy was discussed on 11/22/00)
The project is consistent with the CAS and the Interim Transitional Support Strategy objectives to develop
- 2 -



Eritrea's human resource base and support sustainable investments in the health sector. In particular, it
supports a multi-sectoral approach to mitigate the socio-economic and disease burden of malaria and
HIV/AIDS, especially amongst the population in the productive age bracket. The project is also consistent
with the high priority that GOE places on institutional development and capacity building. It complements
and draws upon ongoing project financed by the IDA and other donors in community development, health
infrastructure and management, and human resources development, in particular the recently effective
Integrated Early Childhood Development (IECD) project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Since independence in May 1992, the Government of Eritrea (GOE) has made great strides in supporting
development and improving the living conditions of its population. Basic social infrastructure has been
rehabilitated and expanded. Gross primary school enrollment has changed from 36.3% to 64%. Overall
access and use of health services has increased from 30% to 60%; EPI coverage has increased by 125%;
attended deliveries have more than tripled; and antenatal care visit-coverage has more than doubled during
the same period. Yet, Eritrea remains one of the poorest countries in the world (GDP/capita US$ 200). It
is highly rural (about 20% of the population lives in urban areas, and 30% is semi-nomad). Its population
pyramid follows an early development pattern with nearly 70% of the population composed of children and
women of child-bearing age. The primary causes of morbidity and mortality among children under five are
acute respiratory infections (ARI), malaria, and diarrhea. Life expectancy is 51 years (SSA 50); infant
mortality is 72/1000 live births (SSA 72); under 5 mortality is estimated at 135/1000 (SSA 93); and
maternal mortality, at 1000/100,000 live births (SSA 500/100,000). In the general population 62% of the
burden of disease (BOD) is caused by perinatal/matemal causes, malaria, diarrhea, ARI, and tuberculosis
(TB). Two thirds of the population live in malaria endemic areas. In 1997 and 1998, above average
rainfall triggered a malaria epidemic, making this the leading cause of mortality (over 50% in all areas) and
morbidity (60-80% depending on the area) across all ages. The reproductive health situation is very poor:
first pregnancy occurs at an early age (21% of 17 year olds and over 50% for 19 year olds), the fertility
rate is high (5.6), and female genital mutilation - discouraged by government - is prevalent in certain
regions. This situation is compounded by an increase in STDs and the emergence of HIV/AIDS. Although
reliable figures are still not available, this increase can be illustrated by the prevalence among blood donors
of 1.9% (source MOH), and among the 15-49 age group of 2.87%. Nutritional status is poor: 10% of
under-five children are wasted; 66% stunted, 41% underweight; and 50% of the children have anemia.
Diarrhea, anemia and malaria are interconnected, and they increase vulnerability to other HAMSET.
This situation worsened due to the May 2000 military conflict with Ethiopia and to the drought. About
20% of the population (men and women) has been mobilized; a third has been displaced and is without
adequate shelter, sanitation, food and basic services. Although widespread famine and disease outbreaks
have not occurred, partly owing to Government efforts to mitigate the related adverse impact by providing
food and other assistance, there is a growing concern that the situation will deteriorate in the coming
months. Early warning signals, such as rising morbidity rates and falling livestock prices, are already
evident.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for the state health system and regulates and controls the
provision of private and NGO operated health services. The public sector is virtually the only provider of
health care. Private clinics and pharmacies exist only in larger cities and serve a limited proportion of the
population. At the village and district level, the PHC network consists of health posts and health centers
staffed with one or several nurses. Health centers have a laboratory, and in-patient and delivery facilities.
- 3-



Many remote villages have no health facility. Every village or cluster of villages has teachers, extension,
social workers, and malaria agents. They often work in cooperation with health facilities, sometimes
referring patients. At the regional level (Zoba) the recently established Zoba health team manages the PHC
network. The Government is completing a network of referral hospitals (one in each Zoba).
With support from WHO, the MOH has approved an essential drug list and has developed treatment
guidelines. Drug purchase and distribution follows two systems: the pharmaceutical department of the
MOH and Pharmnecor. The pharmaceutical department of the MOH supplies the public health facilities. It
is well organized, has an adequate monitoring system, and is supplied almost exclusively by donations from
bilateral and multilateral agencies. Pharmecor is a parastatal, for-profit organization that imports and
produces pharmaceuticals. While there are other pharmaceutical importers in the country, Pharmecor is the
only producer. Private sector pharmacies can purchase drugs from any importer, and public sector
facilities purchase from Pharmecor those items that are not available through the MOH.
Issues
Highly mobile and disperse population compounded by military conflict. Despite being a relatively
small country, Eritrea has heterogeneous, ethnic-cultural groups and economic cultures, varying geographic
and climatic zones, various vector habitats, and remote areas that are traveled by nomadic groups (about
30% of the total population in Eritrea is composed of semi-nomads and agro-pastoralists). There are
seasonal migrations to and from the breadbaskets of the country. This previously isolated country is now
open to trade, Eritreans from the diaspora, and foreign investors who travel in and out of the country. In
the last two years, armed conflict has displaced about 3.5% of the internal population which adds to the
200,000 (7%) returnees. The combination of varied geography, high mobility, and openness after isolation
facilitates the spread of communicable diseases and complicates MOH capacity to reach the population. In
the aftermath of the recent conflict, there is an expected increase in morbidity and mortality due to malaria,
water-born diseases, as well as an increase in the transmission of HIV/AIDS, STDs and tuberculosis.
Changing epidemiological profde. The factors listed above, compounded with changes in social mores
and climatic conditions, have changed Eritrea's traditional epidemiological profile. HIV is initiating its
spread, and there is no reason to expect that the epidemic in Eritrea will - without significant, well
planned and focused intervention - follow a different pattern from that in neighboring countries. In 1995,
over 11% of commercial sex workers in Assab (the main harbor and a key base of Eritrean economic
activity) were HIV positive. Moreover, demobilization and the openness of the country is changing mores
and attitudes, especially those of young people in urban areas. Eritrea has a high case-fatality rate of
malaria insipient testing has shown malaria resistance to chloroquine at 40% of cases in certain areas,
and cases of endemic malaria have been detected in previously malaria-free areas. In '97 and '98, malaria
was the main killer in adults (65%) - especially pregnant women - and the main cause of morbidity
among all ages (70%-90%). The prevalence of malnutrition increases the overall morbidity and mortality
cases. Existing diseases, such as STDs and TB, are on the increase; however, it is difficult to estimate the
exact numbers because of the social stigma attached to these pathologies. TB is a major public health
problem with an annual risk of infection (ARI) of about 2.3%, i.e about 4000 people are expected to
develop new smear-positive, infectious, TB cases each year. A similar number of people will develop
non-infectious, pulmonary and extra-pulmonary, tuberculosis every year. As a consequence of the
FHV/AIDS epidemic, the incidence of TB is expected to continue to increase. The recent massive
population movements due to the conflict with Ethiopia and the mobilization of about 20% of the
population to the front is expected to have repercussions on the transmission patterns of HIV/AIDS, M
alaria, STD, and TB that are difficult to predict.
-4 -



Lack of information on the epidemiological situation and effectiveness of current interventions. Health
policy is made incrementally, based on experience rather than on data-based evidence. Data are collected,
but not always shared across sectors, and analytical capacity is poor across the board. Systematic
monitoring and evaluation of interventions is virtually non-existent across all sectors. Because of the
conflict, it has been difficult to carry out country-wide surveys. While there are on-going entomological
studies on the malaria vector, little is known about: a) population practices, behaviors, incentives, and
motivations for health behavior change; b) the incidence of HIV/AIDS, STD and TB by different age,
gender, and socio-economical groups and regions; c) insecticide and drug resistance to malaria, TB and
STD; and d) the impact of education and communication activities on health behavior. Statistical data on
TB case notification are incomplete and unreliable.
Insufficient and ineffiient use of resources. Despite Government commitment and efforts (social sector
expenditure amounts to 60% of Government's expenditure), the country can afford to spend only about
US$5 per capita on health. As a result, certain programs known to be cost-effective, such as social
marketing of condoms and directly observed treatment strategies (DOTS) for TB, cannot be expanded.
Expenditure patterns are inefficient with most marginal financial resources (70%) concentrated largely on
curative rather than preventive measures. While there is a series of policies to deal with different issues,
including PHC, HV/AIDS, malaria, STD and TB control, there is very little coordination among the
different programs of the MOH. Skilled staff are scarce particularly in the rural areas. Capacity building
is a key element of the Government policy, but lack of a sector strategy results in ineffective training for
staff. The military conflict has further undermined the capacity as young staff had been called to the front.
However, with the cease fire, staff are getting back to their posts.
Poor quality of health care and blood safety. Diagnostic capacity is limited. In the case of TB, the
distribution of diagnosed patients indicates substantial underdiagnosis of new smear-positive, overdiagnosis
of smear-negative pulmonary, and extra-pulmonary tuberculosis. This may be due to poor quality of smear
microscopy and/or poor diagnosis of patients based on clinical findings only. Treatment guidelines are used
rarely, and inadequate treatment is common. Outreach activities are limited, and so are preventive
activities. Except for a Central Blood Bank being built in Asmara with IDA financing, there are no blood
banks in the country.
Commitment to multisectoral disease control but lack of coordination across sectors. GOE has adopted
a multisectoral approach to address the challenges of HAMSET, but this approach is as yet uncoordinated
across sectors. The Ministry of Health, as the lead agency in combating the diseases, has prepared a five
year plan of action and strategies for each of them. While those strategies are technically sound overall,
they need to be adapted to local situations. The Ministry of Education has begun a pilot program of
HIV/AIDS clubs in senior secondary schools and recognizes the importance of malaria as a cause of
absenteeism in primary schools in epidemic regions. The MOE adult education Mass Media Unit currently
reaches 75% of the rural population with messages addressing malaria. The Ministry of Labor uses its
labor organizations to promote health messages, as does the Ministry of Information with its highly
organized community networks. The National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students actively promotes
HWV/AIDS awareness among adolescents, and the army's medical service performs the same function for
conscripts. Effective coordination of these activities would strengthen an existing infrastructure that
reaches all target groups within the population.
Shortage of qualifed health personneL Training of health professionals is done at the Institute of Health
Sciences in Asmara and at the College of Health Sciences at the University of Asmara. There is no training
of medical doctors in the country. There are only 145 physicians and 391 nurses, working mainly in the
- 5-



urban areas. Other health professionals such as laboratory technicians, entomologists and health educators,
are in critical shortage. Staffing patterns in relation to service delivery and the development of
infrastructure are being revised.
Inadequate communication capacity and ineffectiveness of past communication efforts.
Professional communication skills and experience beyond the field of joumalism are limited within
government agencies as well as the private sector. Disease control messages could be contradictory and
carry the potential to either extend or create negative socio-environmental impacts. There is a need to
develop and implement a coordinated national communication strategy. Moreover, despite significant
efforts regarding participation, community mobilization is still mostly limited to implementation of
government programs. Participation mechanisms lack comprehensive involvement that reflects the rich
traditional and cultural knowledge possessed by the communities.
Insuffwcient knowledge of health practices and use of services by the population. For the most part,
Eritreans have limited knowledge of how preventive health measures and social practices affect health
outcomes. Despite public efforts, literacy is low in the country, particularly among women (70%). The
country has a large share of orphans and female-headed households, which typically have a lower health
status than that for the general population, and are less likely to seek health care by themselves. Nutritional
practices are poor among adults and children who live in areas of the country with low intake of vegetables
and proteins. Low population density in most rural areas limits access to primary health care services
where health personnel (especially skilled staff) may not speak the local language. Finally, there is
substantial stigma and societal exclusion against patients that have AIDS, STD and TB. All those factors
severely lower the use of preventive and basic health services.
EnvironmentaL The lack of adequate disposal for contaminated refuse from health facilities provides a
serious source of contamination. Household tasks and social activities and behavior promote vulnerability
to malaria.  Several daily tasks and workplace hazards increase the vulnerability to infection by
HIV-AIDS. After independence, GOE initiated major efforts to develop the country, such as construction
of dams and terraces, expansion of surface irrigation, reforestation, and resettlement of displaced people
and returnees. All those activities contributed to increasing HAMSET disease transmissions. The
epidemiological profile of malaria in Eritrea implies that, according to WHO Guidelines for malaria
control, effective control of the disease requires the use of pesticides to reduce vector density and for
personal protection.
Government Strategy
The objective of the GOE overall Macro Policy is to eradicate poverty and to foster economic growth
through, among others, national policies on human resources development and food security. The health
policy supports this objective through activities that aim to: (a) minimize and eventually eliminate easily
controlled diseases; and (b) enhance awareness of good health practices in order to improve workforce
productivity. The education policy seeks to develop self-consciousness and self-motivation among the
population in order to fight poverty and disease. Current state policy acknowledges the necessity for
empowering vulnerable groups to enable them to become productive members of society. Finally, capacity
building is a key strategy for fostering development as the GOE invests a large part of its resources in
updating staff skills and in-service training. The following are key strategic priorities for the GOE:
Development of human resources. The work on a human resources development policy is underway. It
will be finalized during the year 2000 together with a plan for matching training programs and staffing
needs. In addition to external training, there are efforts to improve the quality of in-country health
- 6 -



programs. Curricula have recently been reviewed with a focus on competencies and on horizontal
integration.
Improvement in the information base for decision making. The GOE plans to develop a social sector
integrated information system to monitor living conditions and effectiveness of interventions. The
nation-wide integrated food security system will serve as a model. As most ministries have developed their
own information systems, GOE is studying how to connect and integrate the different databases, and
enhance the capacity to analyze and use information at the Zoba level. In the health sector, it intends to
build on the MOH management information system (SEMISH) and develop an effective surveillance and
epidemic preparedness system.
Decentralization and inter- and intra-sectoral coordination. The decentralization policy creates an
environment conducive to coordination of planning, budgeting, and implementation activities. Intersectoral
committees at national and Zoba level are being re-activated. Recent projects supported by IDA stress
coordination and have a strong multisectoral framework. The year 2001 marks the beginning of govermment
budgeting. The GOE intends to use this instrument to boost coordination.
Community education and empowerment. The government has a strong adult literacy campaign to
increase awareness of specific diseases and mobilize community for vector control. GOE is also fully
supportive of the social marketing of condoms and is studying similar strategy for insecticide treated
materials (ITMs). In its effort to empower the community, the GOE supports the efforts of other key
stakeholders such as the National Union of Eritrean Women (NUEW) and the National Union of Eritrean
Youth and Students (NUEYS) in AIDS counseling and in providing malaria prophylaxis to students during
their social service. In their effort to minimize the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS, the MOH and other
agencies are recruiting prominent people, who are HIV positive to meet with students and other vulnerable
groups.
Minimizing environmental damage. The GOE recently adopted the "National Environmental Assessment
Procedures and Guidelines" to be used in all projects, regardless of the funding source. The MOH is
responsible for the related work and compliance in the health sector. The MOH is aware of the potential
negative irnpact of the current use of pesticide use for malaria control, and is committed to address the
issue by establishing: a) full control of chemical application, including handling and disposal of leftovers,
and monitoring of both effectiveness and negative impact; and b) introducing safer alternatives to pesticides
currently used for public health purposes. At the same time, the MOH is preparing standards for
bio-hazardous waste management for health facilities.
Humanitarian crisis and reconstruction. The GOE reacted promptly to the May 2000 humanitarian
crisis on two fronts: (i) by providing emergency relief and assistance to the displaced and the hosting
communities; and (ii) by organizing the available human and financial resources in order to start the
process of reconstructing and rehabilitating the areas damaged by the recent conflict. The process of
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country will be tackled in two phases: (i) a first set of immediate
needs will be met through the financing of the Eritrea Reconstruction Program; the activities financed will
enable the country to restart some productive activities and repair the infrastructure necessary to allow this
process; and (ii) the remaining and less urgent needs will be addressed through individual sector programs
prepared and financed in collaboration with the development community.
The HAMSET control project supports the above policies by adopting a coordinated intra- and
inter-sectoral approach for tackling these diseases that impose a heavy disease burden on the Eritrean
population, and that is based on environmentally sound disease management. While it does not answer
- 7 -



directly the humanitarian crisis, it is part of the sectoral efforts to minimize the impact of the recent
conflict. It will ensure, among other things, that there are enough supplies to support the GOE's malaria
and TB control efforts, and will provide basic drugs for the treatment of STDs and counseling and testing
for conscripts that are demobilized.
Social sector activities supported by financing partners
With support of the USAID-funded Environmental Health Project, studies are being undertaken to help
refine the malaria strategy, and social marketing of condoms is being implemented in selected areas. The
Italian Cooperation, through WHO, is assisting in the design and implementation of an integrated disease
surveillance system, the development of a human resource policy, and the control of Tuberculosis (TB).
An ongoing IDA-financed social fund is supporting the expansion of education and health infrastructure.
An IDA and NORAD-financed health project is constructing a Central Blood Bank and two referral
hospitals at the Zoba level, equipping PHC health facilities, and supporting an in-depth analysis of the
health sector. The recently launched IECD project focuses on nutrition, education and health issues of
children under five and pregnant mothers, as well as on orphan protection. UNICEF is supporting
community-based water and sanitation programns, school health and AIDS clubs, and malaria control
through ITMs. WHO provides technical assistance on several technical issues including malaria and TB,
and finances a pilot community-based program for the integration of individuals with disabilities in the
community. Apart from that, an emergency program is being prepared to cope with the impact of the
conflict and to reconstruct the country. Several donors (including EU and Italian cooperation) have pledged
assistance. During appraisal, the Government reiterated its interest in developing a comprehensive health
sector strategy and a health investment program in collaboration with its partners. The consultative process
for the first phase, i.e. the sector review, has been initiated.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project addresses the above issues only as they relate to HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs and TB
(HAMSET) prevention, transmission and impact. Facing severe financial and human resource constraints,
the Government has chosen to focus its efforts on these diseases and to combine control efforts in one
program. This decision was made on the following basis:
HAMSET are interdependent and have substantial externalities. These diseases are inter-dependent.
Prevention and early treatment of these illnesses not only reduce mortality and morbidity for the affected
individuals, but also reduce transmission in the community. Recent research suggests that HIV-positive
patients infected with malaria can transmit the disease at a much higher rate than those who are not infected
with malaria. Similarly, infection with certain STDs strongly increases the transmission of HIV while early
treatment of STDs reduces the transmission of HIV. Finally, TB is the most frequent opportunistic
infection in HIV positive individuals in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Disease specific programs have a poor track record especially if implemented simultaneously.
Disease-specific programs (i.e. vertical programs) overtax Government capacity during project preparation
and implementation, undermine the sector, and confuse communities through disconnected health messages.
Ideally, these issues are better approached on a sector-wide basis. In the case of this project, this option is
not feasible due to the lack of a sector-wide framework.
HAMSET are multisectoral in origin, because they arise from an interaction of factors across several
sectors. Experience suggests that tackling these issues through the health system only is both ineffective
and inefficient. To be effective, an integrated national response must therefore address the various factors
- 8 -



that contribute to the spread and severity of the epidemics. Discrete interventions have proven ineffective.
Furthermore, an integrated response provides a service delivery model that can be used in the future for
other public health and development issues.
HAMSET significantly hamper development. HIV/AIDS is 99% fatal, strikes populations in the most
productive ages, and usually kills both parents in an affected family. HIV/AIDS also causes severe
personal loss, disruption of social structures and exacerbates poverty. Malaria which accounts for 40% of
total outpatient morbidity and 30% of all admissions, is the main cause of death among adults, and
approximately 10 work days per episode of malaria are lost during the planting and harvesting season. TB
affects disproportionately the poor, often ends in death or serious disability, causes severe economic loss
and exacerbates poverty.
Cost-effective interventions exist to control and minimize the impact of HAMSET. HIV/AIDS
prevention has been shown to be highly cost-effective. Transmission prevention costs between 20 to 100
USD per case while treatment can cost hundreds of thousands, in addition to the subsidiary losses incurred
by families. Malaria mortality and morbidity can be reduced through a combination of early treatment and
vector control measures. TB control has been cited (WDR '93) as one of the most cost-effective health
interventions.
Other strategic choices/principles include:
Actions against such a high burden of infectious diseases are not merely technical. The creation of a
societal movement at both the national and community level is crucial. Such a movement can be created by
developing a partnership among key players that would be involved in the context of Eritrea, other
ministries and associations, as well as external funding agencies which are active on the ground.
Strategy to scale up actions against HAMSET. In addition to the provision of goods, technical
assistance, incentives and other urgent support to the Zobas, actions would be scaled up by piloting new
community-managed approaches at the sub-Zoba level.
Process project, learning-by-doing. At present, there is not enough information in some areas to design
the most technically strong and cost-effective interventions to control HAMSET. Given the urgency to deal
with these diseases, it is proposed to go ahead with a process project that would address some issues
described above while focusing on experiential learning (learning-by-doing. Thus, the design stresses
monitoring, evaluation, and linking lessons as they are learned during implementation to annual plans and
budgets, and policy reviews. This choice is especially supported since research and experience in Eritrea
indicate that capacity is best increased if people learn-by-doing.
Supporting decentralization policy. In accordance with GOE policy, project activities are focused at the
Zoba level. This will permit the adaptation of policies and strategies to the ecological, cultural and
socioeconomic realities of each region. This will also allow the central level to focus on monitoring and
evaluation, research, and technical support.
Target population. Most project activities will focus on the population in the productive age group,
conscripts, and people displaced by the conflict. The project does not directly tackle issues such as
malnutrition or other diseases. Children under five and general nutritional issues as well as AIDS orphans
are covered by other programs including IECD.
Financing mechanisms.   The project will not include cost-recovery mechanisms since rapid
-9 -



implementation of the project is deemed essential to improve the health base in Eritrea, and cost-recovery
delays implementation. Sustainability analysis will be carried out as part of the health sector review.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The majority (47.2%) of IDA financing is for component C which supports the major health sector
interventions: diagnosis, care and counseling for HAMSET. These activities are strengthened by smaller
components that help to target care, control transmission in the community, and promote
community-managed responses to HAMSET.
A.    Collect and Analyze Information on HAMSET to Facilitate Evidence-Based Decision Making
and Rapid Response
This component will strengthen the GOE's capacity to collect comprehensive information on HAMSET in a
timely and efficient manner, to analyze it and to use the information for planning and to responding
appropriately to changes in disease trends. That capacity would exist at the central, Zoba, and sub-Zoba
levels and would allow a quick response to epidemics. Activities supported by the credit would contribute
to: (i) improve HAMSET surveillance techniques; (ii) establish an epidemic forecasting and preparedness
system; (iii) improve the country's capacity to carry-out operational research for identifying changes in
HAMSET; (iv) introduce methods to link the results of research and M&E to policy formnulation, annual
planning and budgeting; and (v) strengthen management of communicable diseases at the MOH.
B.    Multi-Sectoral Control of HAMSET Transmission
B.1.  Promote healthy behaviors through multi-level communication. The project will enable the
MOH /IEC unit to coordinate the communication activities of all implementing partners and build capacity
at Zoba and sub-Zoba levels. It will enable Zoba level IEC staff to: (i) conduct formative research to gain a
better understanding of target audience attitudes and beliefs about benefits and barriers to adoption of
desirable behaviors; (ii) develop a communication strategy and conduct communication activities to support
project objectives and promote healthy behavior among target populations; (iii) coordinate and supervise
the work of partner agencies at the Zoba and sub-Zoba level; and (iv) develop a system to track changes in
knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and behavior among target audiences reached by communication campaigns.
The project will also support orientation of leaders of NGOs, and senior officials of other line ministries as
well as national advocacy efforts.
B.2   Pronote healthy lifestyle through the education system. The framework of the FRESH
partnership (Focusing Resources on Effective School Health - WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF & IDA) has
been used to prioritize the most cost-effective actions, particularly for the poor and disadvantaged. The
approach will be implemented through the Ministry of Education (MOE) school health program in both the
formal and non-formal systems. The project will finance activities that aim to: (i) strengthen central and
regional skills in school health programming; (ii) promote in students and teachers healthy practices and
behavior change; (iii) establish school based support and health services; and (iv) promote healthy practices
and behavior change in adults.
B.3   Enhance access to preventive, diagnostic and treatment services for conscripts. The project will:
(i) promote healthy behaviors through multiple channels of communication, (ii) strengthen health care
- 10-



services available to conscripts (including the availability of voluntary counseling and testing), (iii) promote
the increased use of condoms and insecticide treated materials (ITMs), and (iv) establish a program to
address HAMSET concerns in the context of demobilization.
B.4   Promote environmentally sound and cost-effective techniques for Malaria vector control by
implementing a pesticide management plan (PMP) that will: (i) identify, test, validate and introduce safe,
cost-effective chemicals to replace DDT; (ii) test and validate malaria biological vector control; (iii)
develop a strategy for pesticide use and control; (iv) test community acceptance of validated methods and
techniques; and (v) replicate socio-environmentally validated malaria vector control methods. The testing of
the alternative chemicals will provide a reliable method to replace the current residual DDT house-spraying
by chemicals and methods safer to the environment and to human health.
C.    Strengthen HAMSET Diagnostic, Health Care and Counseling Services.
C. 1   Establish safe blood banks in Zoba hospitals. The project will support the establishment of
four blood banks for Zoba hospitals. This will complement the current health project which is
establishing two blood banks in the remaining Zobas as well as a central blood bank in Asmara.
C.2   Improve diagnostic, treatment and counseling of HAMSET through integrated in-service
and on the job-training on HAMSET prevention and detection, case management, syndromic and
laboratory diagnosis of HAMSET, as well as pre- and post-HIV-voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT). The primary strategies for HAMSET management include: directly observed therapy,
short-course (DOTS) for TB; rapid detection and treatment of malaria in health facilities and in the
community, including IMCI for children < 5 years of age, with laboratory confirmation when available;
management of severe malaria at referral facilities; voluntary counseling and testing for IIV;
management of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected persons; syndromic management of STDs,
with laboratory confirmnation when available.
C.3   Improve availability of basic medical materials and drugs required to diagnose and treat
HAMSET in health facilities. The project will support procurement and distribution of basic essential
drugs and diagnostic materials to treat HAMSET (only opportunistic infections in the case of
HIV/AIDS), surveys to assess the availability of drugs and medical materials, in-service and on-the job
resource management training for MOH staff specially at facility level, and transport for drugs,
medical materials and to provide supervision.
D. Community-Managed Response Program.
The project will identify community-managed affordable, effective mechanisms for minimizing the
transmission and impact of HAMSET and have them ready for replication nationwide. The component
consist of two sub-components: (A) Community Counseling and Support Groups; (B)
Community-Managed Response. Sub-component A will strengthen community support services provided
by the MOLHW to provide counseling and establish support groups for AIDS patients. Sub-component B
will test the capacity of the communities --under their own community structure and socio-cultural fabric
to: (i) respond to technical information about the HAMSET for their prevention, care and cure; (ii)
organize their internal mobilization, discussion and decision mechanisms on the support they deem
necessary to assess and otherwise manage the diseases; (iii) identify and input their grassroots and
socio-cultural contribution to HAMSET messages, prevention, care and cure methods, and available
support services; and (iv) identify, decide on and implement sub-projects to prevent or mitigate the diseases
and related impacts in the community. Lessons learned during the initial phases will be incorporated into
- 1 1 -



the plans for subsequent phases. The component will link with the IDA-financed Eritrean Integrated Early
Childhood Development (IECD) as adequate. The component will cover all Zobas and sub-Zobas two in
each cultural area, including semi-nomads but one Kababi each in Year I and 2 and expand to other
Kababis in Year 3 and 4. This phasing will allow for internalizing of community-based processes among
field staff and community-based workers and the testing of a number of assumptions in the initial phases.
E. Project Management and Evaluation.
The project will strengthen the current PMU (located in the MOH) that is managing the Health Project,
with an emphasis on evaluation and monitoring of activities.
A. Collect and analyze information on   Institutional  5.14       10.3      3.70        9.3
HAMSET to facilitate evidence-based   Developmcnt
decision making and rapid response.
B. Multi-sectoral control of HAMSET  Health           11.16       22.3      8.74      21.9
transmission.
C. Strengthen HAMSET diagnostic,    Basic Health      20.69       41.4     18.90      47.2
health care and counseling services.
D. Community-managed response      Safety Nets         9.89       19.8      5.98       15.0
program.
E. Project Management and Evaluation. Institutional    2.72        5.4      2.28        5.7
Development
F. PPF Refinancing                                     0.40        0.8      0.40        1.0
Total Project Costs                   50.00      100.0     40.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    50.00      100.0     40.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the integration of planning, implementation and monitoring activities of
previously vertical programs dealing with HAMSET.  It will also support the recently initiated
decentralization reform and encourage the Zobas to implement locally adequate methodologies to improve
the health of their population. It is expected that by the end of the project, the GOE would have a
coordinated strategy across Ministries to deal with HAMSET and health issues in general. The
government would also have identified bottlenecks for an institutional and legislative framework that
supports division of responsibilities on given issues across sectors.
3. Benefits and target population:
Economic benefits. The project is expected to increase productivity due to reduction of days lost to illness
(for both the sick and caregivers). A reduction in the public cost of treatment through the decline in
disease prevalence and increase cost-effective use of resources, will increase sustainability of interventions
and permit redirection of fiscal resources. Home-based care of AIDS patient is also more cost-effective
than hospital-based care.
- 12 -



Social benefits. Reduced social stigma attached to HIV/AIDS, STDs and TB increases early disease
detection and intervention will help reduce transmission. It also promotes the establishment of social
support systems, such as counseling services, support groups for patients and their families or caregivers
which is known to reduce the economic and social burden on the affected families.
Institutional benefits. Capacity building will strengthen the ability of key stakeholders to coordinate,
implement, and manage proposed interventions. Moreover, the intersectoral approach with improved
coordination of policy and implementing agencies will improve the efficiency of resource use and enhance
overall impact of HAMSET interventions.
Environmental benefits. The project will support the MOH in the efforts to phase out the use of DDT and
replace it with a combination of safer insecticide use and an integrated malaria control program that
stresses malaria prevention and natural management of the disease vector. The project will specifically
support environment-based activities that focus on the communities as primary beneficiaries, stress
post-conflict socio-environmental conditions, and reduce the reliance upon, and ensure safe use of
insecticides. In addition, the conditions of medical waste will be assessed in the first stage of the project,
and adequate solutions identified and implemented as appropriate.
Target groups. The principal target groups are the population in productive age brackets, especially
women, adolescents, and conscripts. The project will have specific interventions focused on high risk
groups such as commercial sex workers and migrant labor. Promotion activities will be targeted at
different groups. Some groups will be targeted through point-of-entry messages (i.e. children, adolescents
and young adults in school); for high risk groups, their profile and behaviors will be identified through
research during the first year of the project to set the base for adequate messages.
This project includes poverty-targeted interventions and has been designed to disproportionately benefit
the poor who are more likely to live in rural areas and in malaria-risk areas. Because of its decentralized
and community-based approach, this project is more likely to reach poor communities in the Zobas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 5 years
Detailed implementation arrangements are part of the PIM, and were found acceptable during negotiations.
The following are initial details for project arrangements.
Executing Agencies. The Ministry of Health will serve as the overall coordinating agency, in addition to
its existing responsibility as the lead executing agency. In addition, the following agencies will implement
relevant aspects of the project in accordance with their existing sectoral aims and mission: the Ministries of
Education, Local Govermment, Labor & Human Welfare, Tourism, Transport, Communication, Land,
Labor and Environment, Information and Defense Medical Services as well as the National Unions of
Eritrean Women and Youth and Students.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance. A National HAMSET Steering Committee will provide strategic
directions and policy guidelines. It will be chaired by the Minister of Health and will include Ministers of
Local Government, Labor and Human Welfare, and Education as well as the six Zoba Governors. The
Director General of Health Services (DG HS) will be the Secretary. This Committee will meet at least
quarterly.
- 13 -



Management of Project Activities. Figure I illustrates the management structure of the project. It adopts
the existing organizational structure of the MOLG, thus promoting coordination and cooperation at all
administrative levels, in line with the Government decentralization policy. This is achieved through the
following arrangements:
At the cental level, there will be a National HAMSET Technical Committee chaired by the DG HS. The
Director, Communicable Diseases Control Division (CDC) will be the secretary and the PMU Director is a
member. This committee will provide the technical guidance for all project activities. Technical experts
designated by the Ministries of Health, Education, Labor and Human Welfare, Local Government,
Tourism, Agriculture and the Medical Services of the Ministry of Defense as well as the associations of
Women and Youth and Students and the Confederation of Eritrean workers, will be members of this
committee and will meet once a month or more often if necessary, to review all technical aspects and
progress of the project. The Technical Committee will report to the Steering Committee through the DG
HS.
The Coordination, planning, financial management, and procurement at national level will be the
responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU) set up for the present health sector project (Credit
3023). The PMU will be strengthened with the addition of one Operations Manager exclusively for
HAMSET, three Program Officers to coordinate different project components, finance/accounts and
procurement personnel and minimum support staff. Its manager reports directly to the Minister of Health.
Both the procurement and financial management capacity of the Unit have been evaluated and found
satisfactory. The project will add a sub-unit to the PMU, staffed with a deputy-project manager, financial
management officer, procurement specialist, and appropriate support staff and equipment. Special training
in project management will be provided for the new staff with special emphasis on monitoring and
evaluation of activities. The expanded PMU will be responsible for compiling and preparing budget and
plans, disbursing funds to participating Ministries and agencies, and managing the special account,
financial management and accounting, bulk procurement of goods and services, and management of the
Credit. The PMU will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) and project coordination across ministries and the regional administration and agencies.
At the Zoba level the overall coordination will rest with the Zoba HAMSET Coordination Committee to be
formed with the Zoba Governor as the Chairperson. The members will include all multi-sectoral
implementing ministries and agencies at the Zoba. The Executive Director of Zoba Administration will be
the Co-chairperson, the Director of Social Services the vice-chairperson, and the Zoba Medical Director the
Secretary of this committee. The committee will meet every month. There will also be a Zoba HAMSET
Technical Committee with the technical experts from the line departments and agencies as members. The
technical committee will meet every two weeks to review all technical and implementation aspects. The
Zoba Medical Director will chair the technical committee and the HAMSET program officer will be the
Secretary.
39.   The day-to-day management and coordination of the project at the Zoba level will be handled by a
small Zoba HAMSET Control Management Unit under the Zoba Medical Director. The Executive
Director of Zoba Administration and the Zoba Medical Director will be co-signatories to the Project
Account in the Zoba. One Project Officer and one Project Accountant will be full timne project staff at the
PMU. The workload in the initial two years may require an Assistant Project Officer to support the Project
Officer. The specific job responsibilities will be included in the Project Implementation Manual.
- 14 -



Chart No. 1
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE & COORDINATION FRAMEWORK FOR HAMSET CONTROL
PROJECT
(MOH nanister-Chair ; M xecte MOLSWe Zoba   (Z -Soba CMheCDC Director Secretary;
CoChrn; Zonalt MedOicer - Sec.       Appointed sector replMembers; CDC Unit
Heads-PMU Director Mer Secs;
M & E   *. *Program Manager 3 Se.
i -  PMU                      | ~~~~~~~~~~~Zonal HAMSET Co,ordinating Committee  |   Zonal HAMSET Teschnical Committee
(Zonal Govemor - Chair; Executive Office Head  (Zoba Medical Offcicer r - Chair;
Co-Chair; Zonal Medical Officer - Sec;   _ ,Representatives of impletnenting sectors
Zonal PMU Program ht. Sec          member; CDC Units Heads Zoba Hosp.
Director Prog. 0.4ficer Sec,.-meimbers;
Prm O rProgram Oficer S
-                            {     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Zonal HAMSETr Control PMU l  
4                           > t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Zonal Medical Officer - (Manager)   |< 
|Progr_ Officer                                                                    Finance and Administration|
Planning, accounting, financial, reporting, and auditing arrangements. The development of the
financial management system will have two phases: interim and final. The interim phase will involve
expanding and/or adapting the existing financial management and accounting structure, and will be in place
when the project becomes effective. The final phase will involve piloting and ensuring that the existing
system is ready to adopt PMR-based disbursements. During appraisal, the capacity of the implementing
agencies and Zoba level structures were reviewed. Due to the limitations regarding accounting and finance
management at decentralized levels, a number of steps have been agreed with the Government, as follows.
As part of the PIM, a Financial Management Manual to document the operation of the project's financial
management system will be finalized by credit effectiveness. The manual will inter alia contain a
description of financial policies and procedures applicable to the project, channels and arrangements
regarding the flow of funds, the Financial Management System and sub-systems (budgeting, accounting,
and reporting), and internal controls. During negotiations, IDA obtained confirmation of the recruitment of
an additional financial officer, reviewed and updated action plan for the upgrading and implementation of
the financial management system. Effective implementation and operationality of those systems will be
part of the conditions for credit effectiveness.
-15-



An independent and qualified audit furm with staff experienced in similar audits will carry out an annual
audit of the project accounts. During negotiations, a short list of firTns acceptable to IDA were agreed
upon. A one-year contract, renewable year by year, subject to annual performance satisfactory to the
Government and IDA, will be signed between the Borrower and the selected firm. Terms of reference for
the annual audits were agreed upon at negotiations, and will cover all requirements for audit of the project
accounts and review of internal controls. Audit reports (consisting of the auditors opinion and a
management letter) will be submitted within six months following the end of each fiscal year. The cost of
such audits is incremental and is therefore included in the project cost.
Monitoring, evaluation, and reporting arrangements. A detailed monitoring and evaluation system will
be developed and included in the Project Implementation Manual. The monitoring and evaluation of the
project will be based on the indicators outlined in Annex I and the Development Credit Agreement. Studies
carried out during the first year and a half of the project will establish base line data and subsequent
studies, and results from the surveillance and effectiveness monitoring systems will support evaluation of
project progress. Representation of the government agencies at the sub-regional and village (community)
levels makes it possible to supervise the details of program implementation, follow up activities, and
cross-sectoral coordination at all administrative levels. Project M & E will be undertaken through: (1) IDA
supervision missions and annual progress reviews; (2) regular quarterly meetings of the Project Central
Steering Committee; (3) semi-annual progress reports based on implementation targets defined in the
Annual Work Plan and Budget; (4) mid-term review of the project no later than 30 months after
effectiveness to identify project successes and issues to be addressed; and (5) baseline and follow-up
surveys of beneficiaries. A project Implementation Completion Report will be prepared within six months
of the project closing date.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A targeted health rather than a sector-wide approach was chosen because of: a) an absence of a
sector-wide policy and vision; b) insufficient information on the current situation; and (c) weak monitoring
capacity in the sector. The project aims to increase capacity to address these issues on all of the above.
With financing from the current health credit (Cr. 3023-ER), the Government has initiated the preparation
of a sector note in consultation with other partners. Such a note will facilitate the discussion among all
stakeholders of the issues and the preparation of a sectoral strategy and plan of action.
The possibility of including other health issues was evaluated. Malnutrition and Mother and Child
mortality and morbidity (including malaria) carry over 70% of the burden of disease in the country and are
very high on the priority list of both the IDA and the Government. An IDA-financed IECD project, which
addresses these issues, has been launched. This project complements those efforts by focusing on the
productive work-force (not covered by any other project) and ensuring coordination and integration with the
IECD project.
- 16-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latet Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.__ __ __ __ __ __ __  .__   -(Bank-financed pr acts only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Sectoral                          Health Project (Cr. 3023-ER)     S             S
Multi-sectoral (pilot             Community Dev. Fund (Cr.         HS           HS
2478-ER)
Multi-sectoral                    Community Dev. Fund (Cr.         S             S
2823-ER)
Early Childhood Development       ECD -became effective
09/27/2000
Nutrition                         Under preparation
Institutional Capacity Building  Human Resource Development        U             S
(ER 50354)
Other development agencies
ItalianlWHO Health sector support    The Italian/WHO program was
signed in November, 1996. It
aims to establish an integrated
surveillance system and to
support TB control.
USAID Health Sector Project       Eritrea Health and Population
Project. Stopped during 98 and
first half 99. Re-starting with
focus on malaria and
reproductive health
UNICEF's health sector support    The new UNICEF five-year
agreement with Eritrea is under
preparation.
UNFPA support for reproductive health Several initiatives underway to
improve reproductive health
and to support the social
marketing of condoms.
NORAD                             Co-finances current IDA-
financed Health Project
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project would be the second IDA-financed health operation in Eritrea. Several relevant
lessons learned from the first health project and IDA health projects in other countries include: (i) the need
for flexibility to adapt approaches to better respond to local needs; (ii) government commitment and
institutional capacity are needed to ensure efficient implementation of program activities and achievement
of development objectives; (iii) overly centralized management structure of many health ministries have
impeded the efficiency and effectiveness with which project activities are implemented; it also deters
stakeholder/beneficiaries from participating in project implementation, leading to little project ownership
and, in many instances, low sustainability of operations in the future; and (iv) adequate provision for
recurrent costs is critical to ensure quality of services and to sustain operations, especially where hospital
capacity is under expansion.
Lessons learned from previous projects in Eritrea. The Eritrea Community Development Fund
experience --rated as Highly Satisfactory-- has shown that both a decentralized system and an emphasis on
strengthening institutional capacity were important contributors to project success. Sector effectiveness was
particularly high in health and education, and community satisfaction and participation high in both sectors.
Two constraints on community participation were: (i) lack of consultation and under-utilization of local
knowledge; and (ii) cultural factors limiting access of women and girls to some benefits in some regions.
The present project is based upon an implementing structure decentralized to the Zoba level --with a
specific component of institutional strengthening-- and with a strong emphasis on strengthening the
infrastructure of health and education in the communities. A strong communications component supports
the enhanced transparency of governance, and there is a specific role of the community in monitoring inputs
and outcomes.
Lessons learned from HIV/AIDS program development /implementation in other countries show that
despite the lack of a cure or a vaccine, preventive measures such as awareness programs to bring about
behavior change, social marketing of condoms, treatment of sexually transmitted infections and
opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis, voluntary counseling and testing, a safe blood supply, and
preventing mother-to-child transmission have all proven highly effective in reducing HIV transmission.
Community-based programs have been especially effective in enhancing prevention, care, support, and
treatment for those infected and affected by HI/AIDS. Lessons learned during the imnplementation of
effective HIV/AIDS programs in various countries have been integrated into the project as appropriate.
Lessons learned from previous cross-sectoral and sector-wide projects: In January 1999 the HNP
Quality Group reviewed 21 PADs, including 5 SIPs. This review was used by the HAMSET project team
to direct project preparation overall, but specifically with regard to 5 key questions of particular relevance
to cross-cutting projects:
*   Is there indication of support from key politicians? This project has the support of the President's
office, which indicates the importance of the adopted structure in which the MOH takes a lead
coordinating role, and also has the support of the Minister or Secretary of each of the nine participating
agencies.
*   Is there a detailed, phased and flexible implementation schedule?  The project is based around a
process approach that is described and planned in detail for the first year, is phased thereafter, and is
deliberately designed to allow rapid roll out with maximum subsequent flexibility.
- 18 -



*   Has the project conditioned disbursement against prior adoption of agreed institutional reform?
Appraisal was dependent upon the adoption of agreed coordination and collaboration mechanisms, and
effectiveness upon their formal implementation.
*   Are the agencies involved kept to a minimum? There are nine agencies which were each able to
demonstrate clear, synergistic and non-duplicatory roles in implementing the project. These agencies
cover: health, education, information, youth, women, demobilized conscripts, and the agricultural,
industrial and construction work forces. Given the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS/STD, all of these
activities and populations were considered priorities.
*   Is implementation progress subject to an annual review plan? The project establishes two technical
committees --one at the central and one at the Zoba levels which meet regularly and monitor progress
and direction.
The approach to institutional coordination is also based around experience other than that in HNP. The
new Guinea Quality Education for All Project builds on this approach to include the Ministry of Women
and Social Affairs, and is the model for the institutional management of the Senegal Quality Education for
All Project. In Nutrition the original Madagascar Food Security and Nutrition Project led to the 1998
Community Nutrition Project that links nutrition and health with the education sector.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
HIV/AIDS (and related diseases), malaria, together with Nutrition, and TB are the key health-related
developmental issues in Eritrea related to health. GOE is highly committed to halt the transmission of these
diseases. The MOH has prepared very ambitious and comprehensive five-years plans to tackle HAMSET,
has organized a national, and six regional malaria conferences with the participation of representatives
from all the Eritrean society; it has set up intersectoral national and local committees dealing with
HAMSET. Furthermore, the MOH has convened all partners to coordinate the fight against these diseases.
The MOE has initiated an HIV/AIDS-STD sensitization campaign among its staff, aims at implementing
universal health education in the schools, and has set up School AIDS clubs. The Meterological
Department shares precipitation data with the Malaria Control Program to forecast epidemics. National
Environmental Guidelines include health impact assessment as a requisite for project preparation and
approval.
Most of all, the Government has continued to prepare the project at a reasonable speed in the middle of the
May 2000 armed conflict, even when it meant that much needed personnel had to be exempted from
conscription.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The comparative advantage of IDA is the involvement and ability to work across sectors, which will
facilitate the proposed multi-sectoral approach. Furthermore, there are clear links with other IDA-funded
projects, such as the Community Development Project, the Early Childhood Development project, the
Human Resource Development Project, and the proposed Nutrition Project. IDA involvement will help: (i)
ensure coordination; (ii) prevent duplication of efforts; and (iii) exploit the complementary aspects of the
different projects. As the IDA is a key partner in the global Roll Back Malaria partnership, STOP TB
Initiative and UNAIDS, the ability to play a facilitating role in identifying expertise and possible partners is
also an asset. Lastly, the Government of Eritrea has explicitly and urgently requested the IDA to support
and extend the ongoing efforts to control malaria and HIfV/AIDS.
- 19 -



Multi-Country HIV/AlIDS Program (MAP)
Management has recommended that HAMSET be included as part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program (MAP) for Africa. The MAP, approved by the Board in September 2000, is a "horizontal"
adaptable program lending (APL) instrument developed to strengthen the Regional response to YHV/AIDS.
The MAP will support efforts to expand national prevention, care, support, and treatment programs, and to
prepare countries to cope with the unprecedented burdens they will face as the millions living with WHV
today develop AIDS over the next decade.
The first phase of the MAP will consist of individual lending operations up to an aggregate amount of US$
500 million. Provided they meet specific eligibility criteria, including eligibility for IDA credits, the MAP
will enable countries to more rapidly access resources needed for the expansion of national HIV/AIDS
programs. It is proposed that HAMSET be included under Phase l b of the MAP (Phase 1 a was constituted
by the first two countries approved for MAP funding). As detailed below, HAMSET meets the MAP
eligibility criteria:
*   Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS, developed in a participatory way: The
GOE 's comprehensive five-year plan for HIV/AIDS is multisectoral and has been developed using a
participatory approach.
*  Establishment of a high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body, with broad representation of key
stakeholders from all sectors, including people living with HIV/AIDS: A National HAMSET Steering
Committee will provide overall strategic and policy guidance to the implementation of the program.
This Committee includes representation from the Ministries of Health, Local Government, Labor and
Social Welfare, Education, in addition to all six Zoba Governors and representatives of people living
with HIV/AIDS.
* Government commitment to quick implementation arrangements, including channeling grant funds
for HIV/AIDS activities directly to communities, civil society, and the private sector: The GOE is
committed to the rapid implementation of HAMSET, and has emphasized the need for mechanisms to
strengthen community-based responses.
*  Agreement by the government to use multiple implementation agencies, especially community-based
and non-governmental organizations: HAMSET will be implemented through a partnership of several
Ministries, the National Union of Eritrean Women, the National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students,
among others.
The inclusion of malaria within the HAMSET MAP is highly unusual and is not intended to set a precedent
for future MAP country projects. In brief, the integration of HIV/AIDS and malaria in this project was
considered necessary for two major reasons: (i) as a means of achieving economies of scale; and (ii)
disease-specific programs face a higher risk of failure when implemented in parallel. This rationale is
further detailed in Annex 4 ("Adequacy of the Sector Policy Framework") of the PAD. It should also be
noted that the malaria specific component of HAMSET constitutes only 7 percent of the credit.
- 20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project aims to control a set of diseases (HIIV/AIDS/Malaria/STDs/TB) considered to be responsible
for a large share of discounted life years (DLYs) lost due to premature deaths and affecting mainly the
productive age group of the Eritrean population [minimal data based on Disability Adjusted Life Years
(DALYs) is presently available in Eritrea]. Without t'e project and IDA's contribution, local resources can
only finance about 20% of the proposed project. This could have serious implications given the combined
adverse impact of the HAMSET on the Eritrean population.
A preliminary cost-benefit analysis of the project's malaria interventions alone shows that the estimated
present value of benefits from malaria interventions is at least about US$ 22 million, compared to the
estimated cost of US$ 5.4 million to control. Most of the benefits are due to a reduction in lost days for
agricultural production due to illness, and in the number of malaria-related deaths averted (Scheuemaier,
2000).
As a whole, the project supports proven, cost-effective interventions (prevention and early treatment), while
promoting pilots of innovative activities especially community-managed mechanisms. Project allocation
reflects this approach with a significant portion of the budget focusing on prevention interventions of which
about 24% is allocated to promotion of behavior change or adaptation. Prevention of -V/AIDS can be
more cost-effective in Eritrea where the epidemic is at a relatively early stage (prevalence is estimated at
around 3.6-5.0 %). HIV/AIDS affects people in their most productive years and it can significantly reduce
life expectancy. In 9 African countries with adult prevalence of 10% or more, H1V/A1DS has been
estimated to reduce 17 years of life expectancy (WB 1997).
There is a proven synergy between the diseases being addressed in that addressing anyone of them reduces
the transmission of the others. A national response that addresses the various factors that contribute to the
spread and severity of these diseases in a more integrated and holistic manner is called for. Accordingly,
this project will support project planning and implementation arrangements that will focus on a
coordinated approach to prevent and control HAMSET and would provide a service delivery model for
other public health and development issues.
The project significantly reduces inefficiencies by integrating interventions. Efforts to coordinate the
purchase and provision of inputs and packaging of training, as appropriate, reduced previously proposed
project costs by almost 64%. Moreover, the revised budget has tried to avoid establishing or supporting
parallel structures in order to use project funds more efficiently. For example, the mission suggested that it
would be more cost effective if SEMISH (the Management Information System of the MOH) could be
upgraded and fine-tuned to become more responsive to the more frequent reporting needs of the ministries
involved in HAMSET control, instead of developing parallel management information systems as originally
proposed by the different departments.
Project design also addresses both the health and socio-economic impact of HAMSET, through
partnerships with all relevant stakeholders. For example, teaching life skills in schools could help enhance
-21 -



adolescent's knowledge and negotiating/bargaining power with sexual partners once they become sexually
active. The project supports social safety-nets to help reduce the vulnerability of poor households by
piloting an affordable, home-based system for care and referral for HAMSET patients.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The total cost of the 5 year program is about US$ 50 million with IDA's contribution at approximately
US$ 40 million (80%); Government and community contributions are about US$ 8.34 million (16.7%),
and US$ 1.66 million (3.3%) respectively. The overall allocation of expenditures across categories is
acceptable with approximately 36.0% of total project costs devoted to training, technical assistance, and
special funds to encourage the involvement of stakeholders, especially communities. Civil works constitute
only a small fraction of the total budget at about 6.8% with an emphasis on renovation of existing health
facilities and social infrastructure, or adaptation of existing structures.
The project, however, seems front-loaded with its first year accounting for about 19% of total project
expenditures. Given the limited implementation capacity of the sectors involved (especially because of the
adverse impact of the border conflict on Eritrea's human resources), carefully phasing activities in relation
to existing local capacity was discussed during the appraisal mission. This issue was also discussed during
the project decision meeting and the general consensus was that the risk of frontloading does not seem
significant because of the good track record of the PMU and the quality of the project implementation
manual. The first year implementation plan was discussed and refined during negotiations.
Fiscal Impact:
A significant portion of project costs is expected to be covered by IDA (about 80%) with the Government
increasingly taking over the financing of recurrent costs aside from the agreed percentage of PMU-related
expenses during the course of the project. Community contributions mostly in kind will cover around 4%
of the project expenses including support and management of community-based initiatives such as safety
nets to assist families affected by HIV/AIDS and TB and care of AIDS orphans.
The recurrent cost requirement for the fifth year of the project is estimated at only about US$ 1.0 million
(if bednets, condoms, and drugs are considered as investment costs and not recurrent costs). On the other
hand, if bednets, condoms, and drugs are included in the calculation then project recurrent cost
requirements increase to US$ 4.90 million. Assuming that the latter classification holds and that no further
scaling up and/or replication of activities would be needed, a minimum of US$ 6.10 million would be
needed to finance HAMSET activities during the sixth year of the project. This estimate assumes that some
training activities/refresher courses will be held to maintain staff quality; drugs, bednets, condoms, and
maintenance will be financed entirely by the GOE. The recurrent cost requirement after the project seems
affordable, amounting to less than 1% of the 1999 budget for health. However, previous expenditure and
financing patterns have shown that about 80% of HAMSET-related activities have been funded by external
partners. Thus, continued reliance on external financing might be expected in the short to medium term
unless HAMSET activities are programmed into the regular budget of the Government to ensure the
sustainability of HAMSET control program activities. GOE is developing a long term strategy as an
important area of focus in the preparation of its health sector review.
3. Technical:
Strategies. The components that will be supported by the project all have a strong technical underpinning,
achieved through elaborate processes of analyses, policy, and strategy formulation. The strategic plans for
- 22 -



HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria control have been developed with WHO support, and have been reviewed in
the national malaria workshop and through IDA supported seminars. WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID
and Italian Cooperation have provided technical assistance and remain involved in efforts to improve the
technical aspects of the relevant programs. GOE and its partners recognize that although the plans are
overall technically sound, more information is needed to refine them and ensure that the Zoba-specific
interventions are cost-effective. The school health component has been developed following guidelines
jointly developed by UNICEF and UNAIDS. Social marketing components are designed and implemented
with support from TA financed by USAID and taking into consideration lessons learned from the pilot
social marketing experience in Eritrea. Activities on communication for behavior change are based on
successful experiences in similar settings. The activities undertaken for HAMSET control will be consistent
with the strategies of various global health initiatives, including Roll Back Malaria, Stop TB, and the
strategies of UNAIDS.
Linking operational research to policy. Every year the project will carry-out an evaluation with technical
support from Roll Back Malaria and UNAIDS. All the key stake holders will participate and will receive
and give feedback on research and monitoring findings, and issues encountered during implementation. The
evaluation will produce strategy and policy recommendations.
Transfer of skills to increase capacity. During project preparation the stakeholders reached agreement on
the roles and responsibilities of staff at different levels, the applicable minimum required skills and training
levels, and the training packages to be offered. The process is expected to continue and be further refined
throughout the project period with a view to remain focused on improving. performance. During the first
year of the project the GOE will work on identifying the current skills of health staff, and on
mechanisms/institutions that have the capacity to provide the different training packages. Particular
attention will be given to capacity building needs associated with the decentralization and community
participation aspects of the project. The main target groups of all capacity building activities will be staff
from different ministries at the Zoba level, and agents for social change. Given the limited staff and
technical capacity in the country, the project also provides some overseas and degree training.
Communicationsfor behavior change. The sphere of communications is seen here in a broad perspective,
going beyond traditional IEC to include activities more strategic in nature. During project preparation,
consensus was achieved on the need to carry out the advocacy/ IEC activities as a joint effort with other
sectors. The MOH IEC unit has been strengthened and its role defined as that of policy formulation, and
coordination, planning and supervision of communication activities at the Zoba and sub-Zoba levels (IEC
plan, September 2000). With the coordination mechanism in place, existing structures would work as they
have done so far, but in closer synchronization with each other.
Selection of drugs and laboratory materiaL Eritrea follows an essential drug list and therapeutic
guidelines. WHO has supported the preparation of those guidelines. The National AIDS Control Program
(NACP) currently follows WHO recommendations on HIV test materials. The project will support
standardization of HIV materials based on the country's experience and WHO recommendations.
Mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV, As a result of rapidly accumulating global experience in
the implementation of pilot MTCT-prevention programs in resource-limited settings, HAMSET will
support pilot studies following UNAIDS/WHO guidelines. These MTCT pilot studies will be integrated
with project support for voluntary counseling and testing services for pregnant women. It is anticipated
that the result of these MTCT pilot studies will yield policy recommendations and implementation guidance
on: (i) expansion of voluntary counseling and testing services for pregnant women; (ii) optimal choices of
antiretroviral regimens for MTCT-prevention; (iii) feeding practices, health services, and social services
- 23 -



for both HIV seronegative and seropositive infants; (iv) pre- and post-partum health and social services
for women; and (v) identification of urgent research questions related to MTCT-prevention in the Eritrean
context.
Community-based care and diagnosis for HAMSET ControL Possible care and support interventions
range from voluntary counseling and testing, home-based care, DOTS strategy, promotion of human rights
for TB and HIV-positive people, support for orphaned children and affected households, treatmnent of
opportunistic infections, and support for networks of people living with HIV/AIDS. All of these are
considered extremely relevant but in a resource-constrained environment, priorities will have to be
established. The project will facilitate a process whereby communities supported by agents for social
change, will determine the priorities and define support activities commensurate to the available resources.
The project will also support on a pilot basis, community-based diagnosis of, and activities related to,
environmental and living conditions affecting health.
NGO and private sector participation. The Government has made great efforts to involve NGOs,
communities, religious leaders, and the private sector in the implementation of the HAMSET control
project. Some religious leaders have initiated actions in their communities to reduce harmful practices such
as FGM and are educating the population on HIV/AIDS. The national unions of Eritrean Women
(NUEW), Eritrean Youth and Students (NlUEYS), and Workers (NUW) are already actively involved in
prevention campaigns especially in the urban areas. The Project encourages these organizations to extend
their preventive activities into the rural areas, to re-examine their potential roles in increasing
parents-to-youth discussions about sex and health practices, as peer counselors, and as facilitators and/or
providers of home base care and support for individuals and families affected by TB and AIDS. The
project also supports the increasing participation of the private sector, from the production of
communication material, to the inclusion of health education and sensitization activities and condom
distribution in the work place (especially in the big construction sites and through the transport workers
association), and ITMs.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MOH is the main coordinating agency. Other key agencies include MOLG, MOE, MOT, MOTC,
MOLHW, MOI, NUEYS, NUEW, NCEW, and the medical services of the armed forces. Overall, a
suitable environment exists for the proper operation of the project. There is adequate support for an
accountability culture at high levels of the Government, and staff are dedicated and have a clear sense of
responsibility.
Both the MOH and MOLG have been implementing IDA-funded projects since 1996 and 1998,
respectively, while the other ministries have no experience with IDA projects. In order to ensure that there
is sufficient capacity for project implementation, the project action plan/implementation manual being
prepared includes provisions for capacity-building to enable the participating institutions specially at Zoba
and sub-Zoba levels to execute the activities as planned. The first year of the project will focus mainly on
capacity building, technical, and administrative activities at Zoba and sub-Zoba level that have the lowest
implementation capacity.
4.2 Project management:
Effective project management is essential to monitor the achievement of project inputs, outputs, and
impact, as well as to provide financial accountability with due diligence to economy, and to conduct
- 24 -



transparent procurement procedures in the award of contracts. Project management will be coordinated by
the MOH through the existing PMU. A sub-unit of the PMU will work exclusively on the HAMSET
project. GOE is identifying additional personnel needed to staff the sub-unit. As many interventions will
take place at the Zoba and sub-Zoba levels, a Zoba HAMSET control PMU will be in place and will report
to the Zoba medical officer.
Project structure within the MOH is clear at this point. The PIM should provide a clear picture of project
administration at the regional and sub-regional levels, with a focus on how coordination of activities on a
daily basis will be maintained at these administrative levels. The PIM will include a definition of roles of
the non-govermment entities involved in implementation, such as the NUEW and NUTEYS.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project, despite its apparent complexity due to the number of ministries involved, has a good
probability of being implemented in a satisfactory way because of the following reasons:
a) Adequate capacity of the existing PMU to carry out international and national competitive bidding
and shopping (with previous satisfactory performance under IDA-financed project) adding to a
strong commitment by all participating agencies;
b) Medium term procurement planning. Procurement of major inputs such as condoms, mosquito nets,
pesticides, drugs, laboratory reagents, and test kits, will be based on medium-term (three years)
requirement forecasts and expenditure plans. This involves the establishment of a resource
envelope, including contributions from the GOE and the major donors. It will be carried out by the
PMU of the ongoing IDA health project that already has proven experience on these matters;
c) Adequate coordination and management structure, leaving to the individual ministries, the full
responsibility for the implementation of their respective sub-components, and
d) Satisfactory staffing at central level for most leading executing agencies such as MOLG, MOF and
MOE. Additional staff are being trained at training institutes such as Eastern and Southern Africa
Management Institute (ESAMI). However, the staffing situation needs may evolve during project
implementation as more qualified staff will be required at the Zoba level.
The satisfactory performance of this project is directly related to a realistic procurement implementation
plan to be approved and closely monitored by the IDA, especially in the first year of project
implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management and reporting. The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures for the project will be acceptable to IDA. Under the guidance of the
Director, the PMU will be responsible for the entire financial management, accounting, and disbursement
functions of the project, including management of the Special Account, processing contracts and payments
for goods and services. Consultants will be hired to help the PMU adapt the existing financial management
system including a comprehensive manual of financial procedures, chart of accounts, and fully integrated
project accounting structure, using an appropriate accounting software for the demands of a multisectoral
decentralized project. In addition, a suitably qualified and experienced project financial officer would be
recruited to participate in the development of the financial management system, and to guide and direct the
financial management operations of the project.
- 25 -



The financial management system will produce project financial statements including a summary of sources
and uses of funds, special account reconciliation statement, cash withdrawal statement, and cash forecast.
The chart of accounts will facilitate the presentation of summary expenditures by component, activity and
disbursement category. The PMU will maintain accounts, make payments for eligible expenditures, and
manage the special account to be opened for the project.
Overall, the project will satisfy IDA's minimum financial management requirements, but with risks
associated with general capacity limitations in the implementing agencies due to limited number of staff
with well-developed technical skills and professional accountancy accreditation. There are also
organizational risks associated with adapting and elucidating standards and procedures that give guidance
for internal control and accounting, with clear delegation and segregation of duties. These risks may result
in unintentional errors, omissions, miscalculations, late submission of financial statements, delay in the
flow of funds and financial statements that do not reach international standards. Successful implementation
of the financial management action plan will, however, allow the project to satisfy IDA's minimum
requirements under OP/BP10. 02.
Since the designated project accounting system is being adapted, there is not in place a financial
management system that can provide the information required by the IDA for the project management
report (PMR) based disbursements as stipulated in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Handbook. Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, outlined in the IDA's Dishursement
Handbook, will be followed (i.e. direct payment, reimbursement and special commitment, if appropriate).
The appointment of a reasonably qualified and experienced project financial officer as well as the
successful implementation of the adapted financial management system, with the help of financial
management consultants, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months
of effectiveness. Actions required for attaining L4CI compliance have been developed and agreed with the
borrower at appraisal. A financial management review of the program should be undertaken by an IDA
financial management specialist within 12 months of effectiveness to assess progress and initiate the
process of conversion to PMR-based disbursement procedure.
The appraisal mission reviewed an outline oi the manual of financial procedures to be prepared with the
help of financial management consultants. A draft of the manual was submitted to the IDA for review
prior to negotiations. During negotiations, a schedule was discussed and agreements reached regarding
key milestones for effectiveness (for example, the appointment of the Project Financial Officer and final
manual of financial procedures and the establishment of a dedicated project accounting system).
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An Environmental Analysis (EA) was undertaken to review the elements of the National Malaria Control
Program that may lead to negative environmental impacts unless properly planned and managed, namely
the use of chemicals.  The EA reflects and responds to both the GOE's "National Environmental
Assessment Procedures and Guidelines" for project preparation, and the IDA's requirement regarding
OP4.09 (Operational Procedures 4.09-Pesticide Management). The EA was cleared y the Eritrean
Department of Environment (DOE) on June 20, 2000. The EA has been made available to stakeholders,
including the civil society, through distribution to the 6 Zobas, national and bi- and multilateral agencies,
NGOs and several civil society groups (see consultation in 5.4 below).
The EA concluded that the main concern of the Malaria Control Program (MCP) is the use of DDT for
-26 -



residual house-spraying. The EA however concluded that: a) only 16% of the houses at risk of malaria are
sprayed with DDT; and b) as currently used, and as proposed in the HAMSET project, this use is
consistent with WHO guidelines (WHOPES) and the POPS exemption (which determines "specific use in
health when effective, and in high risk areas to prevent epidemic conditions"). The EA recommends
improving surveillance and monitoring of malaria trends to improve efficacy of both vector control, and
prevention of epidemics, as well as replacing DDT by safer chemicals. A Pesticide Management Plan
(PMP) was prepared following the EA conclusions and recommendations. Accordingly, pesticide selection,
distribution and use will follow the EA recommendations and will be done by fully trained health
personnel. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (i) the PMP will be implemented
in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (ii) procurement of chemicals for control of malaria epidemic, will
fully abide by IDA standards which follow WHO guidelines. Procurement documents will clearly state
that all chemicals to be procured will be manufactured, packaged, labeled, handled, stored, disposed of,
and applied according to standards acceptable to the IDA; and (iii) MOH will present by the end of the
second year, a program and schedule for substituting DDT residual house-spraying by chemicals or
techniques that are safer to the environment and human health, as satisfactory to IDA.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The PMP responds to the issues raised by the EA, and will be an integral part of the HAMSET project,
that is, its activities are complemented by the project's several other components. It consists of four major
activities summarizing the EA's recommendations: a) test efficacy of DDT and alternative insecticide
compounds to initiate the phase-out schedule for use of DDT; b) capacity building and strengthening the
national MCP, focusing on entomology and epidemiology training as appropriate, collection of baseline
biological data to support implementation and monitoring of integrated vector control; c) develop IEC
strategy for community-based implementation and maintenance of insecticide impregnated bednets that
focus on community education and participation, is based on local knowledge and practices, and is adapted
to community organization; and d) improve collection and analysis of data for information on
cost-effectiveness for the different (integrated) methods for malaria vector control.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
The EA was received by IDA on June 27th, and sent to the InfoShop on June 30, 2000. The Pesticide
Management Plan (PMP) was cleared by IDA on July 26, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted for both the Environmental Screening and the EA through visits by selected
MOH staff and consultant, and IDA mission members. Consultations included unstructured and structured
interviews and group discussions. The stakeholders consulted included the DOE (Ministry of Land, Water
and Environment), Ministries of Health and Agriculture, Zoba and sub-Zoba Government officials, staff
and patients at Zobas' clinics and hospitals, community members in the Zobas, village leaders, and related
agencies and partner organizations such as UNHCR, WHO, USAID, etc. The EA was carried out over
three weeks in April-May, 2000, and included field visits to the malaria zones, and contacts with health and
other pertinent staff and people in Asmara as well as in the malaria zones.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Several project indicators will directly and indirectly evaluate project impacts on the environment.
Mechanisms include improved surveillance, monitoring and evaluation systems for epidemic forecasting,
- 27 -



chemical use and environmentally validated vector control methods, as well as random survey, and project
monitoring of improvement in school and health facilities' waste management and sanitation. The PMP
will also include MCP-supervised community monitoring of vector control pilot sub-projects and potential
impacts (Monitoring of DDT toxicity would require a time span beyond project life, and does not apply
particularly because DDT will be phased out).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
About 80% of the population is rural, and a total of 30% is semi-nomad. The majority of the urban
population is directly linked to rural life through family ties and trade. Prior to the latest conflict (May
2000) Eritrea had started resettlement of 200,000 refugees. In the May conflict, over a third of the
population was displaced.
Social stigmas associated with HAMSET may potentially decrease the impact of the project. Some key
targets groups may be difficult to reach. The project design seeks to reduce the barriers through adequate
behavioral and social research, communication and education. The GOE's policy is clearly pro-integration.
Communication campaigns will be designed to stress integration. To foster social inclusion and equity
empowerment of communities and to promote social cohesion, the project will support the extension of
several strategies proven successful, such as: i) sensitization at an early age in schools; ii) peer support;
and iii) use of social workers, women and youth as agents for change. In addition, the project will pilot
strategies to determine their viability and effectiveness, including: i) mobile strategies for semi-nomadic
groups; and ii) community empowerment through community identification and design of health support
solutions and education.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation involved extensive participation of line ministries, the Zobas administration, and
organizations that work extensively with communities. The communities, MOI, MOE, the Zobas, religious
leaders, conscripts, NGOs, and the HAMSEI control program of the MOH are the principal stakeholders,
and beneficiaries, of the project. Representatives of these groups are part of the National and Zoba
HAMSET Technical Committees, participated in the National Malaria Conference and numerous meetings,
seminars and training sessions on HAMSET control organized by the GOE and partners. In addition, these
groups will implement activities under the project, thus ensuring continuous participation and feedback.
The project has also been extensively discussed with, and its design supported by, key external partners
such as the WHO, UNHCR, Italian Cooperation, UNICEF, USAID, and others.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultation and collaboration with CSOs and NGOs has been integrated in project preparation, as
described in 6.2 above. Summarizing, several representatives of civil society have participated in project
design and will participate in project implementation through various means, including service delivery,
skills transfer, partnerships for community mobilization, monitoring and evaluation, etc.. The project has
extensive involvement of community participation that in turn, requires participation of civil society
groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will be coordinated by a multi-sectoral Ministerial group with representatives from the nine
- 28 -



Ministries mostly involved with social development and community work (see also 6.2 above). The leading
agency will be the MOH, and imnplementation will be mostly at the Zoba level. The different components
are integrated and will strengthen the Zoba institutions, supporting the decentralization process initiated in
Eritrea-- as well as the central level, as necessary to support project implementation by the Zobas. The
project relies on and therefore, involves civil society groups, including NGOs, and is based on extensive
participation of the communities. Community participation is ensured by the formal and informal
community structures, and by Eritrea's 30 years of tradition with community collaboration; this
participation will be strengthened with technical assistance to enhance the community-Zoba links. In
addition, project design addresses the health and socio-economic impact of HAMSET, supports social
safety-nets to reduce the vulnerability of the poor, and stresses community self-reliance.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project indicators are all inherently aimed at monitoring social impact and social development
outcomes. The key indicators focus on quality of life and social inclusion, through improvement of health
and public health. The key stakeholders will participate in annual project evaluations to support feedback
on performance, research findings, and lessons learned. The project has been designed as a process
supporting mechanism to ensure that evaluation findings are included in future implementation plans.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       * Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project includes a Pesticide Management Plan that will, supported by other project components, phase
out the use of DDT by replacing it by a combination of safer insecticide and an integrated malaria control
program. The integrated program includes technology, techniques and methods that stress malaria
prevention and natural management of the disease vector, and that range from Government implementation
to full scale community participation. The project will specifically support environment-based activities
that focus on the communities as primary beneficiaries, and that stress post-conflict socio-environmental
conditions. Surveillance, improved data collection, measuring efficacy of control methodologies, and
testing of alternatives are included in the project to reduce reliance upon, and ensure safe use of
insecticides. The credit agreement includes a legal covenant requiring the presentation, by the end of the
second year, of a program and schedule for substituting DDT residual house-spraying by chemicals or
techniques that are safer to the environment and human health, and satisfactory to IDA.
-29 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Prevention of a full-blown HIV/AIDS epidemic will impact sustainability of all development efforts in
Eritrea. The social and economic impact of a rapidly spreading epidemic is hard to quantify, but it is clear
that the costs across all sectors would be very high. It is of no use to train, educate, or cure people if they
will, subsequently, die of AIDS. Mitigating the epidemic will, therefore, reduce costs of treatment,
morbidity and mortality.
The project will increase the health sector's institutional capacity to develop policies, implement programs,
collect and analyze data as well as monitor and evaluate effectiveness of interventions. HAMSET require a
long-term effort to be effectively controlled and contained. Therefore, this increased capacity will enhance
sector sustainability by enabling a long-term, well-targeted, and multi-sectoral response as adequate.
Inclusion of cost-recovery mechanisms in this project would hamper the immediate response necessary to
strengthen the sector, and unacceptably delay project implementation. The potential cost-recovery
mechanisms will be analyzed during the health sector review. The analysis will provide a basis to ensure
future sustainability in the sector.
The project constructs minimal infrastructure. Instead it rehabilitates existing structures to make them
more effective. Prior to consider construction of new social centers the local government will carry out an
inventory survey of existing facilities at village and sub-Zoba levels to identify existing structures that
could be used for social purposes and propose how to maximize their use. In war affected areas, there may
be a need to replace destroyed infrastructure. This will be done through the emergency recovery project
now under preparation. It is, therefore, expected that the incremental recurrent costs of the HAMSET
project will be negligible.
Due to the adoption of cost minimizing measures, the cost tables of the project identify minimal incremental
recurrent costs. The GOE, and specifically the Ministry of Finance, has also indicated that it is ready to
increase per capita allocation for activities related to HAMSET control to improve project implementation
and sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
fRIk                    Risk ROaing             RiskV MtgatnM M      re
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of coordination and sequencing of       M         The GOE has decided to organize regular
HAMSET control activities between                      meetings of all external partners to monitor
external partners/funding agencies.                    on-going programs and to coordinate funding of
new programs. At the same time, the
Government has launched, in collaboration with
all partners, the preparation of a health sector
strategy and a 5-year health investment
program. All activities financed by external
agencies will fall within the agreed-upon
Government program.
- 30 -



Lack of coordination among implementing     M         The project institutional and implementation
agencies at the National as well as at the            responsibilities are clearly defined at all levels
Zoba levels leading to slow                           and are described in the PIM. A financial
decision-making and slow disbursement of              procedures manual that will pay special
funds, particularly within the                        attention to the multi-sectoral and decentralized
decentralized framework.                              management nature of this project is being
prepared. The project is building on the
successful management of the on-going health
project. The existing PMU will be strengthened
to cope with additional responsibilities.
Program interventions may fail to produce   M         The project will build on successful experiences
desired results.                                      in Eritrea as well as in other countries.
Phasing/scaling up of interventions will take into
account institutional capacity. M&E will
systematically keep track of program
performance.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in preparation and official          N         Government has expressed its commitment to
approval of a coordinated sectoral                    the preparation of a coordinated sectoral
strategy.                                             strategy. Such an effort is well underway with
respect to HAMSET and is being launched
sector-wide.
Lack of understanding of project goals      M         Participative approach to project design. All
and objectives may result in poor                     implementing agencies and associations have
implementation and thus low impact.                   been partners in needs assessment as well as in
identifying the interventions. Steering and
technical committees includes officials from key
ministries and Zobas.
Communication campaigns, peer and           M         Comprehensive communication strategy
social pressure fail to induce behavior               including multiple interventions will be prepared
change.                                               in the first year of the project. Its preparation
will be initiated during the project launch.
First year assessment may show that         M         The sectoral strategy will define infrastructure
overall needs for facility                            needs which can be supported by other external
renovation/construction may be more than              partners.
can be supported by project funds.
Overall Risk Rating                         M         Project risks would be minimized through the
development of the coordinated strategy and
through the phased approach.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 31 -



None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
a) the Borrower has put in place financial management and accounting systems for the project in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association;
b) the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Manual of Financial Procedures in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association;
c) the Borrower has paid into the Project Account the Initial Deposit.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, the Government agreed on the following:
* GOE will submit to IDA a document that maps out all sources of financing for HAMSET control
activities;
* GOE will implement the Pesticide Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to IDA, procure
chemicals for control of malaria epidemics according to IDA standards which follow WHO guidelines,
and present by the end of the second year a program and schedule for substituting DDT residual
house-spraying by chemicals or techniques that are safer to the environment and human health;
* The Project shall be implemented in accordance with the PIM, as may be amended from time to time
with the consent of IDA;
* GOE will establish and maintain, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, a PMU which shall be
adequately staffed and shall report to the MOH;
* GOE will maintain appropriate informnation systems necessary to enable the monitoring of project
implementation and the evaluation of the achievement of development objectives, based on the
indicators in annex 1;
* GOE will furnish to IDA semi-annual progress reports on project implementation before March 31 and
September 30 of each project year;
* GOE shall conduct annual progress reviews, jointly with IDA; one of the reviews will be a mid-term
review of the project to be conducted not later than September 2003; promptly after the reviews, GOE
will implement its recommendations;
* At the mid-term review and at project completion, GOE shall jointly with IDA carry out Program
performance review using indicators in annex 1 of this report, based on data to be made available by
GOE to IDA at these times and at the baseline;
* Financial covenants would be complied with; these include, inter alia an audit by independent and
qualified auditors records and accounts for each year with a separate opinion on SOEs, in accordance
with international auditing standards and procedures, to be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
- 32 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Procurement documents for the first year are under preparation. The draft PIM was evaluated during
negotiations.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Eva Javwan                                                          OeyAstra Meesook
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Key fterormance
Hierarohy o(50 f: Ol J.ctI vq 0s 0   j:;: IndIatorL  Mni  ng 0&: Evaluation    Ciical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote growth and      IMR/CMR                  Country Statistical Report. Stable relations with
poverty reduction by    maternal mortality ratio                          government of Ethiopia.
enhancing human resources.
Broad and sustained
development.
Project Development     Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
To reduce the mortality and   *  a stabilization in the   Surveillance system.  Economic stability
morbidity of the Eritrean    HIV seroprevalence                           maintained.
population due to HAMSET     among adults aged
through an increase in the   15-24 years.
utilization of quality,
effective and efficient health   * a reduction in Malaria                 No major environmental
services for HAMSET          death rate (in under                         issues.
prevention, diagnosis and    five and pregnant
treatment, supported by      women).
healthy practices.
* increase in the                               Efforts to determine baseline
proportion of                                for indicators successful by
diagnosed and                                end of FY2002.
successfully treated
new smear-positive TB
patients.
Effective implementation of
* a reduction in                                other developmental efforts,
prevalence of severe                         e.g. female education,
anemia in women of                           infrastructure development.
child-bearing age.
-34-



Key Peronwmane
HW*rdq of ObeVes               tndlcatoms       M*onito         & Evaluon    CI k*I
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. HAMSET policies and   # actions in annual work    Operational research  All partners inputs (external
interventions reflect    program directed at     reports.                  and local) are implemented
expected changes in      expected, high priority  Surveillance system.     in a coordinated manner.
prevalence of HAMSET.   HAMSET problems.
MOH activity reports.
Emergency preparedness
unit activity reports.
Annual joint policy and
planning review report.
2. Eritrean citizens have the Communication programs   KAP Studies.        Effective complementarity
knowledge and means to    effectiveness:                                   between health services and
change behaviors to prevent % community members who                       improved health behaviors.
HAMSET transmission.   report HAMSET.             DHS surveys.
brochures/posters available.
% respondents with correct Random surveys.
knowledge of HIV.
transmission and prevention
methods.
% of retail outlets and  KAP studies.
service delivery points with
condoms in stock.        Social Marketing reports,
Behavioral change:       Market Surveys.
Condom-specific
contraceptive prevalence    MOE activity reports.
rate (CPR).
% children <5 and pregnant
women sleeping under
insecticide-treated nets.
Health seeking behavior:
% of patients with
uncomplicated malaria
getting correct treatment at
health facility and
community levels according
to national guidelines within
24 hours of onset of
symptoms (in rural towns).
- 35 -



Environmental health:
% communities with access
to acceptable vector control
methods.
Effectiveness of education
system:
% secondary school
children, teachers and adult
learning participants able to
describe cause an(d means of
prevention of HAMSET.
% secondary schools with
HAMSET counseling
services.
% schools with clean,
working latrines.
Effectiveness of military
health services:
CPR (condom-specific)
3. Health facilities identify  Provision of safe blood:    Health facilities statistics.   Adequate maintenance of
and treat HAMSET          % blood units transfused                            facilities and equipment.
effectively.              that have been screened for Health facilities statistics.
HfV according to national
guidelines.               MOH report activity
% Zoba hospitals wvith blood reports.
donor recruitment program.
Effective counseling:     Zoba medical officer
% Zobas that have at least  activity reports.
one center staffed with
trained HIV counselors.    Random surveys.
Effective diagnosis and
care:
% health care professionals
trained in diagnosis of
HIV/AIDS and care of
common opportunistic
infections.
% health care facilibes
reporting disruption in stock
of anti-malarial drugs for
more than one week during
the previous 3-mon-th
periods.
- 36 -



% communities with at least
I community health worker
trained in management of
fever and recognition of
severe febrile illness.
% health staff able to
recognize the symptoms of
TB.
% communities that have
access to DOTS.
% diagnosed TB patients
under DOTS.
% patients diagnosed TB
positive that are
smear-positive.
% smear-positive patients
diagnosed as newly declared
cured.
4. Affordable, effective  # Approaches for        Community-based statistics. Continuous Government
community-based          community-managed                                 support for decentralization
mechanism to minimize    HAMSET response                                    and empowerment of the
spread of HAMSET is      programs validated and   Activity reports for pilot   communities.
ready for replication.   ready for replication.   activities.
- 37 -



ProJect Components /    Inputs: (budget for each    ProJect reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                        Outputs)
1. Collect and analyze  USS 5.10 mfllons        Project Monitoring Systems. Continued availability of
information on HAMSET                                                     qualified staff at the MOH
to facilitate evidence-based                     Annual Reviews.          and other ministries.
decision making and rapid
response.                                        Mid Term Review.
2. Multi-sectoral control of US$ 11.16 millions                           Government adopts
HAMSET transmission.                                                      adequate policies following
recommendations of
2.1 Promote health                               KAP surveys.             operational research.
behaviors through
multi-level communication.                       DHS surveys.
2.2. Promote healthy life                        Random surveys.
styles through the education                     Project Reports.
system.
Annual Reviews.
2.3. Enhance access to
preventive, diagnostic, and                      Mid Term Review.
treatnent care for
conscripts.
2.4. Promote
environmentally sound,
cost-effective techniques for
malaria vector control.
3. Strengthen HAMSET   US$ 20.69 millions        Project monitoring system.
diagnostic, health care,                         Random surveys.
and counseling services.
Annual Reviews.
Mid Term Review.
4. Community-managed   US$ 9.89 millions         Project monitoring system.
HAMSET response                                  Random surveys.
programs.
Annual Reviews.
Mid Term Review.
- 38 -



E. Project Management   US$ 2.72 millions       Project monitoring system.
and Evaluation.                                 Random surveys.
Annual Reviews.
Mid-Term Review.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
The overall objective of the project is to reduce the mortality and morbidity of the Eritrean population due
to HAMSET through an increase in the utilization of quality, effective and efficient health services for
HAMSET prevention, diagnosis and treatment, supported by healthy practices.
The project will benefit all regions of the country. Some interventions, such as communication for behavior
change, will cover about 80% of the Eritrean population; other activities will cover specific groups, such as
people living in a malaria-affected areas (2.7 millions) and families affected by AIDS. Specific
interventions will be targeted towards vulnerable or high-risk groups, e.g., conscripts (300,000),
adolescents, commercial sex workers, migrant workers. Secondary beneficiaries of the program will be
health personnel, teachers, and social workers.
The Ministry of Health will serve as the overall coordinating agency. Cooperating agencies include the
Ministries of Education, Local Govemment, Labor & Human Welfare, Agriculture, Information, and
Defense medical services, as well as the National Unions of Eritrean Women and Youth Students. The
project will be implemented in a decentralized manner in accordance with GOE's decentralization law.
The majority (47.2%) of IDA financing is for component 3, which supports the major health sector
interventions: diagnosis, care and counseling for HAMSET. These activities are strengthened by smaller
components which help to target care, control transmission in the community and promote
community-managed responses to HAMSET.
The project has the following components structure:
1. Collect and analyze information on HAMSET to facilitate evidence-based decision making and
rapid response.
2. Multi-sectoral control of HAMSET transmission.
2.1    Promote healthy behaviors through multi-level communication.
2.2    Promote healthy life styles through the education system.
2.3    Enhance access to preventive, diagnostic, and treatment care for conscripts.
2.4    Promote environmentally sound cost-effective techniques for malaria vector control.
3. Strengthen HAMSET diagnostic, health care, and counseling services.
4. Community-managed HAMSET response.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.10 million
Collect and analyze information on HAMSET to facilitate evidence-based decision making and rapid
response: The Government identified the following key issues that reduce the effectiveness of current
Government interventions to minimize HAMSET.
- 40 -



Symptoms for Concern          Underlying Reasons and Causes
Changing Ecology of          Lack of Mechanisms that Identify and Link Changes in HAMSET
HAMSET and Resistance to    Factors to Management Decisions
Current Control Methods
Threaten Society
* Rapidly growing morbidity  Lack of research that provides information on:
and mortality from both   * Role of population behavior in HAMSET transmission.
existing and new diseases.    * Changes on epidemiological profile of HAMSET.
*  Growing resistance of     * Changes needed to control HAMSET.
mosquitoes and malaria    * Lack of staff with required research skills.
parasites to chemicals and
drugs.                   Current information systems fail to:
* Growing                    * Provide reliable and timely information on the prevalence of
incidence/resistance of      HAMSET.
STD/TB cases.             * Detect changes in disease patterns.
* Danger that epidemics      * Forecast where rapid disease change will occur.
could begin and spread    0 Provide information in the form that managers require for decision
rapidly before they could be  making.
detected and containment  * Lack of means to respond to epidemics.
measures could begin.     * Top-down approach to planning and implementation.
* Weak inter-sectoral coordination: HAMSET diminishes productivity
in all sectors, yet institutional efforts are concentrated in MOH.
This component will strengthen GOE capacity to collect comprehensive information on HAMSET in a
timely and efficient manner, to analyze it, and to use the information for policy formulation, annual work
program planning, and for rapid response to changes in disease trends, e.g., epidemics. That capacity
would exist at the central, Zoba, and sub-Zoba levels. The constituent parts of the component include:
i)    Improve HAMSET  surveillance techniques for providing timely and accurate data. Activities
include renovation of 6 health facilities, one in each Zoba, to become sentinel sites for HAMSET
surveillance. Each site will be supplied with microscopes to permit definitive diagnosis of malaria and TB.
At the Zoba level one computer will be provided so that surveillance data can be entered and analyzed, and
Zoba staff will be provided with training in data management, decision making, and surveillance system
management. The component will provide the required consulting services and workshops. In the later part
of the project, the component will provide improved electronic conmmunication between the Zoba and
central levels to facilitate transmission of surveillance data and reports, possibly through internet
connections. The component will also include incremental recurrent costs for staff salaries, HIV/STD
seroprevalance surveys, test kits, and reagents, equipment/computer maintenance and office supplies.
ii)    Establish an epidemic forecasting and preparedness system by developing a national strategy and
associated guidelines for public health personnel at central, Zoba, and sub-Zoba levels, formulating a
skills-development curriculum, and training of trainers. The component will also develop a strategy for
predicting upsurges in HIV/AIDS, STDs, and TB. Seven meteorological sites will be established to ensure
accurate collection and reporting of rainfall information. In addition to providing the required consulting
services and training, the component will provide for printing and dissemination of guidelines, and
provision of reserve stocks of drugs and reagents.
-41 -



iii)   Improve Eritrea's capacity to carry-out operational research for identifying changes in
HAMSET by establishing research priorities and capacity within the country. The component will: (a)
introduce procedures that require operational managers, at national and Zoba levels, to determine the nature
of the research conducted; (b) introduce a systematic approach for research on human behaviors and
epidemiological factors that affect HAMSET transmission; and (c) expand the number of staff trained in
the research methods required. Research topics will focus on program management, epidemiology,
entomology, drug resistance, community taboos and practices, individual behaviors, and biological vector
control.
The component will construct entomological laboratories in the three Zobas that are most affected by
malaria. Each laboratory will be equipped with entomological microscopes, equipment, and a 4-wheel drive
vehicle for field surveys and studies. The component will provide the required consulting services and a
HAMSET research fund for undertaking the research projects identified. Incremental recurrent costs will
include staff, replacement of reagents/supplies, and building and vehicle operations and maintenance.
iv)   Introduce methods to link the results of research and M&E to policy formulation, annual work
planning, and budgeting by introducing new management methods for systematic use of information in
work cycle planning activities. The component will provide intemational monitoring and evaluation experts,
workshops, computer hardware and software, staff skill development workshops, and incremental recurrent
costs for systems support and maintenance.
v)    Strengthen management of communicable diseases within the MOH by introducing improving
operation processes and providing young managers exposure to relevant intemational experience. The
component would provide computers and equipment, programming planning courses, study tours, and
financial management courses.
-42 -



Project Component 2 - US$11.16 million
Multi-Sectoral Control of HAMSET Transmission: The Government identified the following issues and
underlying reasons for the low impact of recent efforts to reduce transmission of HAMSET:
Symptomsfor Concern             Underlying Reasons and Causes
Current Health Care Mechanisms Lack of Communications Systems that Create Awareness and of
Deal Ineffectively with HAMSET  Means for Dealing with Risky Situations
Transmissions .
* Incipient HIV/AIDS could      * People, especially at-risk groups, lack information and awareness
explode to become major         concerning the causes and dangers HAMSET.
epidemic, threatening Eritrea' s  * Ineffective methods and insufficient persormel for motivating
social fabric and base for     behavioral change.
economic development.        * Lack of access to the physical means for preventing HAMSET
* Growing incidence of severe     infections.
cases of malaria and        * Cultural barriers to disease prevention:
STDs/TB.                    *  Lack of open talk on sexuality.
* Growing infertility caused by    * Denial of existence of HIV/AIDS.
STDs.                       * Phobia of HIV/AIDS amongst youth.
* Danger of emergent health    *  Stigma attached to HIV/AIDS, STDs and TB.
problems caused by DDT and   * Declining age of first sexual encounter.
other pesticides used to    * Youth lack venue where they can relate to HAMSET problems in
control mosquitoes.            their own ways.
* DDT may no be longer         * Difficulties in bringing about behavioral change.
produced in the next five years  * Highly mobile population.
* CSW and mobile workers face risky situations frequently.
* Lack of knowledge on safer, cheaper alternatives for in-house
mosquito control.
This component brings together all of Eritrea's institutions for communicating with people and builds on
their existing mechanisms to promote healthy and safe behaviors. The component focuses especially on
at-risk groups to ensure that they have access to environmentally adequate, physical means to prevent
transmission of HAMSET. The component consists of four sub-components:
a)    Promote healthy behaviors through multi-level communication (US$ 3.64 million)
The project will enable the Communications Unit in MOH to coordinate the communication activities of all
implementing partners and build capacity at Zoba and sub-Zoba levels. It will enable Zoba level IEC staff
to: (i) conduct formative research to gain a better understanding of target audience attitudes and beliefs
about benefits and barriers to adoption of desirable behaviors; (ii) develop a communication strategy for
coordinating the programs of all implementing partners and conduct communication activities to promote
healthy behavior among target populations; (iii) coordinate and supervise the work of partner agencies at
the Zoba and sub-Zoba level; and (iv) develop a system to monitor changes in knowledge, attitudes, beliefs,
and behavior among target audiences reached by communication campaigns. The project will support
orientation of leaders of NGOs, and senior officials of other line ministries as well as national advocacy
efforts.
-43 -



Implementing partners and their target audiences include:
*     Ministry of Information: the entire population.
Ministry of Local Government: specific audiences within the Zoba.
*     Ministry of Education: students, teachers, and participants in adult literacy courses.
*     Ministry of Tourism: tourism workers, managers, and guests.
*     Ministry of Transport and Communications: truck drivers.
*     National Union of Eritrean Women: women groups.
*     National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students: youth groups and clubs.
Confederation of Eritrean Workers: labor unions, especially construction workers.
The Communications Unit in MOH will coordinate the design of the strategy and contents of individual
program activities with the implementing partners. It will also take lead responsibility for training courses
to introduce improved communications skills to the staff of all the partners. Each partner will implement its
own communication program because every partner has a different comparative advantage and penetration
for different audiences. To facilitate coordination of on-going communications programs, GOE will
establish a Communications Coordinating Committee for ensuring consistency amongst all players. All
partners involved in communications for behavior change will be represented in the Committee. This model
ensures coordination of the multiple communication efforts for behavior change that are being undertaken
in the country (e.g. the IECD project). Partners will closely coordinate with other projects (IECD) and
fmancing partners (USAID) to avoid duplication and contradiction of messages and overwhelming
audiences.
Communication programs will include: a) advocacy campaigns to raise awareness and influence decision
makers regarding HAMSET control interventions; b) public awareness campaigns about HAMSET
prevention and high-risk behaviors; c) education and communication interventions targeted to high-risk
groups; and d) campaigns to de-stigmatize HIV/AIDS, STD and TB.
The project will finance communications experts, training of social change agents and community leaders
in basic concepts of HAMSET epidemiology transmission and prevention, overseas training of 3 staff on
marketing and IEC methodologies, in-country basic training for social workers at diploma and certificate
level, social and opinion studies for the development of communication materials, design and
implementation of communication campaigns and materials, costs for community mobilization, and
communication equipment. The project will also finance purchase of vehicles or hiring of transport.
Following a model that has been successfully implemented in Uganda, Smith Kline & Beecham has agreed
to second a communications expert to be based in Asmara to support the Communications Coordinating
Committee.
b)    Promote healthy lifestyles through the education system (US$ 5.51 million)
The component aims to improve educational outcomes to promote good health and prevent the spread of
HAMSET. The framework of the FRESH partnership (Focusing Resources on Effective School Health -
WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF & IDA) has been used to prioritize the most cost-effective actions, particularly
for the poor and disadvantaged. The approach will be implemented through the Ministry of Education
(MOE) school health program in both the formal and non-formal systems. The project will finance
activities that aim to: (i) strengthen centrally and regionally skills in school health programming; (ii)
promote in students and teachers healthy practices and behavior change; (iii) establish school based support
and health services; and (iv) promote healthy practices and behavior change in adults:
- 44 -



Skills in school health programming and monitoring by establishing a long-term link with an
international network on school health (the Partnership for Child Development) in order to transfer
international school health programming skills to managers within MOE. Over three years MOE/MOH
staff will gain experience from other school health programs in regional countries and will acquire
programming skills through short training fellowships. The component will conduct a situation analysis to
lay the basis for the school health program. The project will provide electronic communications and 2
vehicles for the Project Management Division.
The component will establish long term monitoring through the national network of 75 school inspectors
and 800 Parent-Teacher associations. Zoba-level and national workshops will provide an opportunity for
sensitization, orientation, feedback, and program refinement. The project will arrange workshops for the
200 directors of secondary schools and the 600 directors of primary schools on the same frequency and
schedule. Experience developed during the project will determine the level of dialogue that MOE will need
to continue after the project to ensure sustainability of this monitoring system.
Promote in students and teachers healthy practices and behavior change by (a) reforming the
curricula at primary (Grades 4-5), Junior Secondary School, Senior Secondary School (Grades 8-9, 10-11),
and teacher training levels; and (b) developing teacher manuals and supplementary pedagogic materials.
The project will support special courses to transfer skills in undertaking and interpreting surveys of
knowledge, attitudes, practices, and prejudices amongst all 5 target populations, and in designing,
preparing, and testing the materials. The project will produce secondary school and teacher training
materials in English for 3,000 teachers and 170,000 students. It will produce the basic education level
materials in 8 regional languages for 6,000 teachers and 85,000 students. MOE will undertake formative
assessments and reprinting as necessary, closely coordinating mass media messages through the
Communications Coordinating Committee established in subcomponent 2.1, on which MOE is represented.
The project will ensure that all existing teachers and teachers entering the education system in the future,
will understand and support the new curriculum. The project will support a sequence of training of trainers
workshops - already developed with UNICEF by regional countries as part of the FRESH partnership - to
achieve universal coverage rapidly. At the secondary level, the workshops will train 200 trainers to reach
2,500 teachers by the end of the second project year; at the primary level, 6,000 teachers before the end of
the third project year. Staff of the Teacher Training Institute and Faculty of Education at the University of
Asmara, who provide pre-service education for new teachers, will participate in intensive training in project
years 1 and 2, and thereafter, teach the life skills curriculum to all new teachers (currently about 600
primary and 50 secondary teachers per annum).
To reinforce healthy practices through a broad view of good health, the project will provide sanitation and
basic garbage disposal for the 200 schools that are without adequate sanitation. (The IECD project will
provide facilities for the remaining 150 schools that lack proper sanitation). The project will construct these
facilitations in cooperation with the PTAs; it will provide separate facilities for boys, girls, and teachers.
Each school administration will develop routine cleaning procedures and the PTA will develop and agree
with MOE a long term maintenance program prior to construction beginning.
Establish school based health services by establishing procedures for school-based counseling,
testing alternatives to teachers for providing school based health services, and establishing school based
health clubs. The project will develop guidelines, workshops to introduce appropriate skills to teachers, and
minor recurrent costs. MOH will assess and validate the effectiveness of mobile health teams versus
teacher-based approaches for health delivery of simple, safe, and familiar services, e.g., deworming,
-45 -



provision of micronutrient supplements, and encouraging treatment-seeking behavior for students with
malaria symptoms. The community school representative on the Kebabi committee for
community-managed HAMSET response in Component 4, will be able to propose school-managed support
as an alternative to be considered within the community resource envelope.
Promote healthy practices and behavioral change in adults by enhancing MOE's radio
broadcasts of adults education courses. With a network of 800 facilitators, it is the largest non-formal
program of the Ministry of Education. Ihe project will design and test new HAMSET modules for
facilitators and supplementary materials for participants, coordinating the content with the
Communications Coordinating Committee. It will translate the materials into 8 languages and publish a
total of 60,000 copies. The 74 adult literacy coordinators will participate in a training-of-trainers workshop
and then run a series of intensive 15-day workshops (2 per Zoba) to train the facilitators in the use of the
new manuals and supplementary materials.
c)    Enhance access to preventive, diagnostic, and treatment services for conscripts (US$ 1.33
million)
The project will: (i) promote healthy behaviors through multiple channels of communication; (ii)
strengthen health care services available to conscripts (including the availability of voluntary counseling
and testing); (iii) promote the increased use of condoms and insecticide treated materials (ITMs); and (iv)
establish a program to address HAMSET concerns in the context of demobilization.
To strengthen MOD's communication for behavioral change program, the project will provide
vehicles (2 4-wheel drive pickups, 2 vans, and 12 motorcycles), computers, and audiovisual equipment.
The project will assist MOD to adapt the MOH procedures and materials for HAMSET control to the
special conditions in which conscripts live. It will also provide workshops for training-of trainers, who will
subsequently provide on-the-job training workshops to MOD medical staff in diagnosis and treatment of
HAMSET, and communication for behavior change techniques.
To strengthen MOD's HAMSET health care services delivery, the project will adapt MOH
protocol manuals, renovate 4 diagnostic laboratories, provide 4 ambulances, and provide specialized
training in HAMSET healthcare skills.
To strengthen the distribution system, the project will provide a logistics management expert,
introduction of computer-managed logistics system, and specialized training in use of the new system for
storing and distributing condoms and ITMs.
To establish the demobilization program, the project will provide an international experts to help
design the program, adapt MOH materials for HAMSET behavioral change information, publish the
adapted materials, and provide a voluntary HIV/AIDS testing and counseling service for conscripts who
are about to be demobilized.
d)     Promote environmentally sound, cost-effective techniques for Malaria vector control (US$
0.69 million)
The project will develop and implement a pesticide management plan (PMP) that will: (i) identify, test,
validate and introduce safe, cost-effective chemicals to replace DDT; (ii) test and validate malaria
biological vector control; (iii) develop a strategy for pesticide use and control; (iv) test community
acceptance of technically validated methods and techniques; and (v) replicate socio-environmentally
-46 -



validated malaria vector control methods. The testing of the alternative chemicals will provide a reliable
method to replace the current residual house spraying by chemicals with safer methods to the environment
and to human health.
The project will provide experts to help design the studies on efficacy and cost-effectiveness of alternative
insecticides, workshops to review proposed studies and validate results, and vehicles, equipment, and the
materials required to undertake studies. It also provides for monitoring and evaluation of the alternatives
tested. Finally, the project provides US$ 0.22 million in the final 3 years of the project to replicate
socio-environmentally validated control methods.
Project Component 3 - US$ 20.69 million
Strengthen HAMSET Diagnostic, Health Care and Counseling Services
The Govemment identified the following issues and underlying reasons for the low capacity of the health
sector to provide adequate and cost-effective care to HAMSET patients.
Symptoms for Concern                          Underlying Reasons and Causes
Structure of health care unable to deal with  Lack of Effective Identification, Treatment and
HAMSET.                                       Support Methods
* Patients risk HAMSET infection from blood   * Inadequate safe blood banks.
transfusions.                              * Current diagnosis and treatment practices are
* Health facilities are unable to diagnose and treat  designed to deal with traditional diseases.
HAMSET reliably.                           * Abuse and misuse of injection practices.
* HAMSET cases occupy up to 80% of health     * Improper disposal of syringes, needles and other
facility services.                            waste.
* HIV/AIDS has arrived recently and spread
quickly.
The objective of the component is to reduce mortality and morbidity from HAMSET in general by
increasing and improving the quality of health services. The strategies for managing HAMSET will
include: (i) directly observed therapy, short-course (DOTS) for TB; (ii) rapid detection and treatment of
malaria in health facilities and in the community, including IMCI for children < 5 years of age, with
laboratory confirmation when available; (iii) management of severe malaria at referral facilities; (iv)
voluntary counseling and testing for HIV; (v) management of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected
persons; and (vi) syndromic management of STDs, with laboratory confirmation when available.
Establish safe blood banks in Zoba hospitals. The project will establish four blood banks for Zoba
hospitals. Under the current health project another two blood banks in the remaining Zobas are being
established as well as a national blood bank in Asmara. This project will provide the civil works,
equipment, consulting services to design guidelines for blood safety and courses to introduce blood
transfusion skills. The project also provides incremental recurrent costs for blood bank supplies, and
equipment and building operating and maintenance.
Improve diagnostic, treatment and counseling of HAMSET through integrated in-service and on
the job-training on HAMSET prevention and detection, case management, syndromic and laboratory
diagnosis of HAMSET disease, as well as pre- and post-HIV-voluntary counseling and testing (VCT). The
project will provide intemational short courses for improving skills in treating HAMSET, drug quality
- 47 -



control, and maintaining medical technology equipment. It will also provide incremental recurrent costs to
establish a sustainable, in-service, counseling skills development program. As part of the VCT, the project
will conduct pilot studies for the prevention of mother to child transmission (MTCT) of HIV.
Improve availability of basic medical materials and drugs required to diagnose and treat
HAMSET in health facilities. The project will support procurement and distribution of basic essential
drugs and diagnostic materials to treat HAMSET (only opportunistic infections in the case of HIV/AIDS),
surveys to assess the availability of drugs and medical materials, in-service and on-the job resource
management training for MOH staff specially at facility level, and transport for drugs, medical materials
and to provide supervision.
Project Component 4 - US$9.89 million
Community-Managed HAMSET Response:
The project will identify and validate community-managed affordable, effective mechanisms for minimizing
the transmission and impact of HAMSET in the community. Validated mechanisms will be replicated in
other similar areas in Eritrea. This component is a pilot in nature, because the exact nature of the most
effective mechanisms to be used have yet to be identified. Nevertheless, success is to be expected because
the general approach rests on Eritrea's more than thirty years' experience with successful community
participation.
The component consists of two sub-components: (A) Community Counseling and Support Groups, and (B)
Community-Managed Response.
(A) Community Counseling and Support Groups. The sub-component will strengthen community
support services provided by the Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare. The project will provide a study
tour to gain experience with systems for providing community support in regional countries, and then
establish a community service to provide counseling as well as support groups for AIDS affected people.
Mechanisms in the first project year that communities will consider will include different approaches at: (a)
providing home-based care for families dealing with AIIDS patients or families taking care of an AIDS
orphan; and (b) community-managed efforts to identify malaria, anemia, STDs, and TB symptoms and
danger signs, as well as to perform initial treatment and referral of serious cases. The project will provide
consulting services to publish manuals, workshops to introduce improved skills, and workshops to assess
the effectiveness of the strengthened community support services. The project also includes incremental
recurrent costs for managing community services and providing incentives for community volunteers.
(B) Community-Manage Response. The sub-component will test the capacity of the communities to use
their own community structures and socio-cultural fabric to identify, select, implement, and manage
responses to the serious threats they face from HAMSET. More specifically, this part of the component
will test the capacity of the communities, through a process-oriented approach to:
(i) Respond to technical information about the threats, causes, and means of prevention, care and cure of
HAMSET;
(ii) Discuss and assess alternatives mechanisms for controlling HAMSET threats, both those suggested by
village facilitators and from their own knowledge, e.g., about local plant species and medicinal applications
that they use to prevent, cure, and/or control malaria, diarrhea, and other health problems. Communities
and health staff will leam from each other about effective means for dealing with HAMSET threats;
-48 -



(iii) Identify and input their own grassroots and socio-cultural contributions to HAMSET messages, and
possible    methods of disease prevention, care and cure, and community-provided support services;
(iv) Select from a suggested menu of alternatives and agree on a set of preventive/control actions, the costs
of which fit within a limited "resource envelope" consisting of resources provided from the project and the
community (in kind);
(v) Implement and monitor with selected partner agencies the actions they have selected; and
(vi) Evaluate and report the impact of their HAMSET control actions within their community.
Lessons learned during the initial phases will be incorporated into the plans for subsequent phases. The
component will link with the IDA-financed Eritrean Integrated Early Childhood Development (IECD).
The component will cover all Zobas and sub-Zobas, and will include at least one Kababi in project year I
in each different cultural area, including semi-nomads and resettled communities, and in each ecological
zone. The program will start with a maximum of 12 pilots in project-year one, and will expand to other
kababis beginning in project year 2, once the project has identified efficient/effective management, decision,
implementation, and M&E mechanisms. This phasing will allow for internalization of community-managed
processes among field staff and community members, community-based workers and testing of a number of
alternative arrangements in the initial phases.
At the Zobas, the project will provide Community Facilitation Assistants (CFA) who will ensure adequate
community participation and support, and link the communities and village-to-Zoba Government structures
regarding HAMSET. The CFA's counterparts will be the Medical Officer, Social Welfare Officer, and
Education Officer at the sub-Zoba and Zoba levels. Community facilitators will help implement the
component. The project will provide experts to help design implementation procedures and design technical
manuals. The manuals will describe the sources, transmission patterns, symptoms, alternatives for
treatment, and for care, counseling and cure for HAMSET; they will also specify alternatives for support
services from official agencies and NGOs, including NUEW and NUJEYS. The project may establish a link
with the United Nations Volunteer program for provision of international technical experience combined
with social facilitation and participatory planning.
A team comprising staff from the sub-Zoba, a community health worker from the local health facility and
the CFA will introduce the project to the selected community and facilitate the community to decide how it
wishes to proceed. Key elements of the process include:
Introductory meeting: the team explains the nature of the growing HAMSET threat to the
community, in terms of the potential impact on the community and the sources and transmission patterns.
Next, the team outlines the nature of the HAMSET Control Program and seeks agreement from the
community to participate.
Exploratory meeting: the team presents the menu of alternatives from which the community might
select for controlling/mitigating HAMSET, explains how the project will match resources that the
community would be willing to contribute (in kind), and helps the community calculate the size of their
resource envelope.
Discussion and decision meeting: the team facilitates the community's consideration of the
alternatives that they consider appropriate and choice of the combination that they can afford. The team
-49 -



then helps the community record its decision with the sub-Zoba representative and open its
Community-Managed HAMSET Bank Account. The comnmunity will then plan the schedule for
implementation and the means by which it will monitor progress. To ensure transparency, the community
will erect a sign that indicates the purposes of each sub-project, the costs, the contributions of funds from
the project and from the community, and the expected completion dates.
Evaluation: At least twice a year and upon completion of sub-projects, the community will
prepare a brief report that evaluates the impact of their HAMSET Action Program on their community.
Mechanisms to be considered in the first project year include: (a) various community-designed measures to
control and/or reduce the risks of HAMSET within the community; and (b) training for Hamset-related
income earning activities that spread benefits within the community. MOLG with the MOH support will be
responsible for helping to set appropriate standards, ensure in-service training of community workers,
supervision, and provision of learning aids and curative inputs.
The project will finance: a) experts to assist with design of the mechanisms to be tested; b) CFAIUN
volunteers to facilitate community discussions and decision making; c) .preparation of sub-project
proposals; d) learning materials for and training of commnunity change agents members of the village health
committee; e) and a Community-Managed HAMSET Action Fund to match contributions from the
community. The project would contribute four times the value of in-kind resources contributed by the
community, up to a limit of US$ 20 per household over a 3-year period with a limit of 40% to be used in a
single year. For example, in a community of 200 households, the community could select a combination of
alternatives that would cost US$ 5,000 over 3 years, consisting of US$ 1,000 contributed in kind from the
community (most often provided as days of labor) and US$ 4,000 from the Fund. At 2000 wage levels, this
would represent about 5 days of labor per family.
Project Component 5 - US$2.72 million
Project Management and Evaluation: This component will support the overall project management. The
project will support the creation of a sub-unit within MOH's existing Project Management Unit that will be
solely responsible for work planning and budgeting, procurement, and financial management. The project
will finance the costs of this sub-unit as well as staff training, workshops, development of appropriate
management and information systems to facilitate monitoring of project performance, office equipment and
materials, and experts to assist in the implementation of selected activities. The project will also finance
annual financial audit of project expenditures, preparation of the mid-term review, and the implementation
completion report.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Local       Forein         Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $mMlon   US $million
A. Collect and analyze information on HAMSET to facilitate  2.89          1.95         4.84
evidence-based decision making and rapid response.
B. Multi-sectoral control of HAMSET transmission.           6.19          3.97        10.16
2.1   Promote healthy behaviors through multi-level
communication
2.2   Promote healthy life styles through the education
system.
2.3    Enhance access to preventive, diagnostic, and
treatment care for conscripts.
2.4   Promote environmentally sound cost-effective
techniques for malaria vector control.
C. Strengthen HAMSET diagnostic, health care, and counseling  3.45       16.73        20.18
services.
D. Community-managed HAMSET response.                       7.74         0.62          8.36
E. Project Management                                       1.45          1.05         2.50
PPF                                                         0.00         0.40          0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                        21.72        24.72         46.44
Physical Contingencies                                     1.12         0.27          1.39
Price Contingencies                                        1.65         0.52          2.17
Total Project Costs              24.49         25.51        50.00
Total Financing Required               24.49        25.51         50.00
Local       Fre
Project Cost By Category               'US $m;                      US $lri*ti
Works                                                        2.08           0.89          2.97
Goods                                                        3.81           2.50          6.31
Drugs and HAMSET devices                                     0.00          15.00         15.00
Special Funds                                                7.69           0.35          8.04
Consulting Services, Studies and Training                    4.55           4.02          8.57
Project supervision and management                           1.05           0.45          1.50
Recurrent Costs                                              2.55           1.10          3.65
PPF                                                                         0.40          0.40
Physical Contingencies                                       1.12           0.27          1.39
Price Contigencies                                           1.65           0.52          2.17
Total Project Costs     24.50         25.50         50.00
Total Financing Required      24.50         25.50         50.00
- 51 -



Annex 4
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
The Govemment of Eritrea has proposed a five year integrated project to address Malaria, HIV/AIDS,
STDs, and TB. This is a departure from the former practice of addressing these diseases separately using a
vertical, medical approach. Another change is the multi-sectoral approach being utilized, with the
collaboration in design, planning, and implementation of key sectoral ministries such as education, labor
and social welfare, information, and nongovemmental implementing agencies such as the National Union of
Eritrean Youth and Students and National Union of Eritrean Women.
This economic analysis of the Eritrea HAMSET will:
1. Examine the links between the proposed project and the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Eritrea
and other sector work, and assess whether the proposed project has an appropriate sector policy
framework;
2. Determine the rationale for public intenrention and the IDA's involvement;
3. Estimate the costs and examine the benefits of the project;
4. Ascertain the fiscal impact of the proposed project given available funds and other constraints; and
5. Assess the constraints and risks in the sustainability of the project.
Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy for Eritrea (February 5, 1996) focuses on poverty alleviation
through sustained growth and investments in human capital. The proposed operation supports this strategy
by addressing the major diseases that threaten the well-being and productivity of the Eritrean population.
By improving their health status and quality of life, Eritreans will be able to contribute better to the
country's development. The project also aims to build local capacity for effective management and
implementation of health operations, as well as for health-related activities by other participating ministries
and key stakeholders. These actions could contribute to improving access and quality of social services to
ultimately improve health outcomes.
Links to Sector Work
This project carefully considers the findings from both related sector work and IDA projects. In particular,
it adopts a nation-wide multi-sectoral response to prevent and treat a group of diseases that is responsible
for absorbing approximately 80% of the resources of the health facilities in Eritrea.
By controlling HAMSET in a coordinated manner, the project endeavors to take advantage of economies of
scale and lower the costs of intervention. It also takes into account the recommendations made by the HNP
Sector Strategy Report (World Bank 1997a) which underscores the need to respond to HIV/AIDS
infections and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), malaria, and tuberculosis through prevention and
treatment policies that have proven to be cost-effective. For example, the early continuous treatment of
STDs in a rural community in Tanzania was associated with a 42% reduction in newly acquired HIV
infections at a cost of US$ 10 per person treated (Grosskurth et al 1995 from WB AIDS strategy document
1999). In Thailand, prevention efforts at the national and regional levels have led to a rapid and sharp
decline in new HIV and sexually transmitted infections, and the number of male STD cases decreased
significantly as condom use among sex workers increased. In Uganda, strong high level leadership and
effective partnerships with civil society facilitated the changes leading to significant decreases in HIV
- 52 -



prevalence among women attending prenatal clinics in certain regions between 1990-93 and 1994-95.
(Wawer et al, 1999).
The HNP Strategy also mentions that malaria control now relies more on a combination of approaches such
as treatment combined with insecticide-treated mosquito nets and less on household spraying. In TB
control, the Directly Observed Treatment, Short course (DOTS) strategy has proven highly effective in
detecting and curing patients and preventing drug resistance in China, India, Peru, and Tanzania.
The costs of prevention are significantly less than the costs of treatment for most of these diseases,
especially for HIV/AIDS. Thus the project will emphasize preventive efforts and address the growing
threat of HIV/AIDS in Eritrea despite its relatively low reported incidence rate (about 3.2%) in line with
the recommendations of the following World Bank strategy documents:
- Intensijying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa. Responding to a Development Crisis (1999): calls for
a timely, national, multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS as a central development issue. It recommends a
strategic response that include advocacy, prevention efforts targeted to both general and specific audiences
and activities to enhance HIV/AIDS treatment and care, together with the expansion of knowledge bases
to help countries to design and implement their projects.
- Confronting AIDS. Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic (WB 1997b): provides a rationale for
government intervention and recommends public emphasis on prevention activities starting with those at
highest risk of contracting and spreading HIV and covering as many others based on available resources.
Experiences of some IDA projects including those in Kenya and Uganda suggest that targeting different
segments of the population with specific messages has proved effective; and that effective and sustained
behavior change can be achieved only where communities assume responsibility for addressing and
changing unsafe sexual behaviors and adopting and maintaining safer behavior.
The above documents underscore the importance of integrating HIV/AIDS project with other health-related
activities by strengthening the existing systems. In this regard, the HAMSET project not only seeks to
improve the management and implementation of HAMSET control through capacity building and better
coordination within the health sector, but also aims to strengthen the capacity and coordination of
health-related activities across other sectors and ministries such as education, social welfare, and
information. It also supports decentralization through institutional strengthening activities across
administrative levels, from the center to the community, and encourages the Zobas to implement locally
appropriate interventions to improve the health of their respective populations.
Rationale for Public Intervention and Finance
A national multi-sectoral project that: (i) strengthens local capacity to improve health-related social
services, and (ii) supports communities and households to access, utilize, and implement some of these
services in order to improve the social conditions and the human resources base of the country, requires
significant resources. The Government intervention is justified since on the short to medium term, private
provision of such services is restricted due to the following reasons:
(1)    High level of poverty. Despite the 6 to 8% average growth rate from 1993 to 1998 prior to the
border conflict, per capita income estimates for Eritrea ranged from US$ 160-190-- among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, about 70% of the population is estimated to subsist below the poverty line.
Households are constrained from investing in optimal amounts of health care due to their low incomes.
- 53 -



Given that the ability to pay is clearly limited for a significant portion of the population, there is a strong
likelihood that private provision of health related services will be under-provided. In the case of Eritrea,
the role of the private sector in the management and delivery of health services has been limited with most
health facilities being run by the Government, NGOs, and missionaries (WB Poverty Assessment, 1996). The
1997 Eritrea Household Health Status, Utilization and Expenditure Survey (EHHSUES) conducted in the
Debub and Gash-Barka zones indicates that the private sector was used as a source of care by fewer than
1% of those ill.
Public interventions can also lessen the adverse impact of income inequities. TB is particularly associated
with low income levels (i.e., poverty is a nsk factor for this disease). Malaria is endemic in the low lands
particularly in less well off regions such as Gash Barka and Anseba. The poor tend to be most adversely
affected because they have limited access to health services, information and protective measures, and have
less choices to avoid living or working within malaria infected areas. While there is no evidence to suggest
that HIV/AIDS infection rates are disproportionately higher among the poor, the poor are least able to bear
the significant costs of treatment and the corresponding loss of income resulting from sickness and death.
Finally, improving access to and quality of health related social services would contribute to mitigating the
direct (treatment) and indirect (loss of productivity and income or schooling, by the sick family member and
caregiver) costs of diseases.
(2)    Imperfect information associated with the nature of health problems, and exacerbated by the
generally low level of formal education in Eritrea. For the most part, Eritreans seem to have limited
knowledge of preventive HAMSET health measures or social practices that affect health outcomes. For
example, low cost preventive measures exist for malaria and yet there seems to be a lack of sufficient
awareness and practice of such measures. The utilization rate of impregnated bed nets is still new and very
low. There is, therefore, a need to educate the general public especially regarding home-based control
methods such as bed nets and environmental management.
The 1995 DHS findings show a general high level of knowledge of HIV and STD particularly among the
youth. However, it also indicates that perceived personal risks are low and behavioral change is much
lower. Thus, asymmetric information in the case of sexual diseases could also justify the need for adequate
public health messages that target modifications of sexual behavior. If people do not have adequate
information regarding other's sexual behavior then there may be negative extemalities related to increases
in activity among individuals who had had multiple sex partners in the past and who have not consistently
used condoms. Most important, it is also necessary to provide information about the efficacy of treatments,
since the seriously ill, such as those with HIV/AIDS, are often desperate for treatment and may not have
easy access to reliable infornation about which interventions work, which render them especially
vulnerable to potentially harmful or ineffective treatments.
(3)    Investments in other sectors. Aside from  investments in information and communication,
interventions are also needed in other related sectors which would not necessarily attract private service
providers. For example, institutionalizing curriculum on HIV/AIDS/STD in all levels of education, and
promoting girls education to reduce their vulnerability and improve their bargaining/negotiating ability with
their partners, are actions that will be undertaken mainly in the education sector. Investments are also
needed in the labor and human welfare sector if they are to provide adequate social safety nets such as
training, counseling, jobs, and additional resources to vulnerable groups.
(4)    Existence of public goods and externalities associated with the largely preventable communicable
diseases that this project addresses. For example, most of the anti-malaria activities (vector control,
epidemic surveillance systems, and IEC) are public goods; people cannot be excluded from these services
- 54 -



even if they do not pay for them. Other anti-malaria interventions such as impregnated bed nets are private
goods that have positive externalities. With regard to STDs, Kremer (1999) argues that the social benefits
obtained from prevention such as ensuring a safe blood supply or using condoms are likely to be
substantially greater than their private benefits. Therefore, it is highly probable that private markets will
underprovide these goods and services, which justify government intervention.
Given the above reasons, essential health-related services, both preventive and curative are not accessible
and utilized by those who need them most. Preventive services tend to be under-provided by the private
sector. Given the importance of such services in Eritrea, there is a clear rationale for government and other
nonprofit providers to intervene in the social sectors to ensure adequate provision of health-related services.
Government intervention could be through either direct provision or financial subsidies to private providers.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
IDA was requested to provide approximately 80.0% of total project funds. Without IDA's involvement,
available local resources can only finance about 20% of the proposed project, thereby allowing for
significantly less coverage and a slower pace of implementation. This could have both access and quality
implications given the combined adverse impact of HAMSET on the Eritrean population. While taking
some action is better than not taking any, the costs of inadequate action are still extremely high because
without the proposed project, the majority of the Eritrean population will remain at risk.
IDA funds will thus, contribute to substantially increase the coverage and speed of implementation of
interventions that control a set of diseases to which a large share of DLYs (discounted life years lost due to
premature deaths) is currently attributed, which affects mainly the productive age group. Only minimal
infornation is currently available on DALYs (disability adjusted life years) in Eritrea.
Aside from improving access and quality of services via supply-side interventions, IDA resources will
support important baseline surveys and economic and sector work that will provide further insights into
households' health knowledge, attitudes, practices, and constraints that could improve the design and
delivery of future interventions, and increase their effectiveness from a demand-side perspective. This is
particularly important given the lack of up-to-date nationally representative information on and analysis of
the Eritrean situation.
The IDA will also contribute to the ongoing dialogue with the Government and other external partners in
order to obtain and coordinate the technical and financial support necessary for HAMSET control. In
partnership with the Government and other external partners, IDA funds are also being used to finance the
preparation of the Health Sector Note which will map a more comprehensive, long-term strategic vision for
the health sector.
Adequacy of the Sector Policy Framework
HAMSET is based on the government's overall Macro Policy which seeks to eradicate poverty and foster
economic growth through national policies on human resources development and food security.
The Eritrean policy on health supports this objective through activities that aim to: a) minimize and
eventually eliminate easily controlled diseases; and b) enhance awareness of good health practices in order
to improve the productivity of the workforce. Supporting policies are as follows:
- 55 -



* ensure the equitable distribution of health and social services to rural and urban areas, support primary
health care and immunization projects' and improve and expand mother and child-care services;
* give special attention to major health hazards and promote health services;
* encourage the private sector to actively participate in the provision of health services following rules
and regulations and operational modalities provided by M014;
* Promote community and beneficiary contribution in financing health services;
* introduce national health insurance schemes;
* actively promote information dissemination on health practices. (Tseggaai, 1998)
The Eritrean policy on education seeks to also develop self-consciousness and self-motivation among the
population in order to fight poverty and disease. With respect to psycho-social projects to support children
and adults in need of special protection, current state policy regarding human welfare acknowledges the
necessity of empowering vulnerable groups to enable them to become productive members of society. In
full recognition of the impact of good nutrition on human physical and mental development, the Eritrean
policy on food security places emphasis on the modernization of the existing infrastructure and technology
in agriculture, fisheries and other sectors of the national economy to maximize food production, together
with improved dissemination of sound nutntion practices.
While there is still no sector-wide approach established in the health sector in Eritrea, a dialogue towards
this objective has been initiated with the Government during the implementation of the ongoing Health
Project and during the HAMSET project preparation. A policy framework is expected to evolve based on
further discussions with key stakeholders within the Ministry of Health and across sectors and
administrative levels, and external partners., based on the findings of the Health Sector Note that is being
prepared by both local and foreign consultants.
Eritrea is highly committed to halt the transmission of Malaria and HIV/AIDS and the Government had
originally prepared separate five-year plans to tackle both diseases. These plans seemed highly ambitious
relative to the existing human resource capacity in the country. The HIV/AIIDS control plan is designed
along strategic lines, it includes intersectoral activities and generally has the correct emphasis on the
different strategies and activities. However, the country's situation analysis needs updating. This plan has
not been implemented due to the lack of resources. The Malaria control plan is designed along
epidemiological objectives rather than along functional or strategic lines. The potential role of other sectors
is highlighted, but nearly 100% of the activities are carried out by MOH staff and in great part, directly by
the Malaria Control Program (MCP) staff. However, discussions during the March, 2000 mission resulted
in Government's decision to integrate both plans. Moreover, efforts have been made since then to
coordinate key interventions along intra-sectoral and intersectoral lines, incorporating related diseases such
as STDs and TB.
The overall objective of the HAMSET projezt is to reduce the mortality and morbidity of the Eritrean
population due to HAMSET by increasing the number of people that employs healthy practices and uses
quality, effective, and efficient health services for HAMSET.
Through the following five specific components, the project emphasizes preventive level interventions and
early treatment - approaches that are considered cost-effective. Priority is also given to the development
- 56 -



of human resources, health information systems and the process of monitoring and evaluation that
encourages participation of various stakeholders.
1. Collect and analyze information on HAMSET to facilitate evidence-based decision making and rapid
response.
2. Multi-sectoral control of HAMSET Transmission.
3. Strengthen HAMSET diagnostic, health care, and counseling services.
4. Pilot Community-Managed HAMSET response.
5. Project Management and Evaluation.
Over-all Project Design: Analysis of Alternatives
Two separate projects (HIV/AIDS/STDs and Malaria) were originally envisioned by the Government.
After deliberation and subsequent discussions among key local stakeholders and the IDA, the Government
has chosen to combine both projects into an integrated project that also deals with STDs and other
opportunistic diseases such as tuberculosis, these diseases combined, impose a heavy disease buXden and
utilize up to approximately 80% of available health facilities in Eritrea. This choice is based on the
following reasons: First, economies of scale could be achieved by preparing one project rather than two and
by taking advantage of the synergistic effect of addressing a set of diseases through an integrated approach.
For example, the design and delivery of health related information messages could be better coordinated
and the training of health workers could be combined whenever appropriate, leading to a a more holistic
approach rather than being oriented towards a specific disease. Second, disease specific projects tend to
have a poor track record, especially if implemented simultaneously. These projects (i.e. vertical projects)
can create an unnecessary burden on the Government's capacity to manage and implement and may confuse
communities through disconnected health messages.
The possibility of including other health issues was also considered. Malnutrition and mother and child
mortality and morbidity (including Malaria) impose 70% of the burden of disease in the country and are
high in the list of priorities of both the IDA and the Government. However, an IDA-financed Early
Childhood Development project which addresses health and nutrition issues for young children and mothers
has already been launched. The Government and the IDA team decided to complement those efforts by
focusing mainly on the productive work-force (not covered by any other project) and to ensure coordination
and integration with the ECD project in terms of activities related to school health.
Ultimately, a sector-wide approach would have been optimal in order to address all health issues. The
Government has recently agreed to prepare a Health Sector Note which will provide a more comprehensive
and long term strategic vision for the health sector. However, this Note will not be drafted in time to
coincide with HAMSET project preparation. Nonetheless, this project will: a) address an important set of
diseases in an integrated fashion which could serve as an example for further integration of activities within
the health sector and across other sectors; and b) increase efficiency in the use of health workers at Zoba,
sub-Zoba and village level, now working on vertical projects, which could enhance the sustainability of
interventions by reducing the total number of workers needed to carry-out activities in the vertical
approach.
The diseases addressed by this project are multi-sectoral in origin as they result from an interaction of
factors across several sectors. Discrete, uncoordinated  interventions have proven to be generally
ineffective. A national response must therefore address the various factors that contribute to the spread and
severity of these diseases in a more integrated, holistic manner. Accordingly, this project will support
project planning and implementation arrangements that coordinate activities across a number of sectors,
including regular consultations and participation of key stakeholders. The focus will be on an integrated
- 57 -



approach to dealing with HITV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs and TB that could provide a service delivery model
that could be used in the future for other public health and development issues.
4. Financial Analysis.
The total cost of the five-year project is US$ 50-million, with IDA's contribution at approximately US$
40.0-million (80%), the govemment's share is at least US$ 8.34 million (16.7%) and community
contribution is around US$ 1.66 million (3.3%). At this time, the contributions of other donors have not
been factored in the project costs.
Table 4.1 Financing of HAMSET by Source, 2001-2006
Govenmment                           8.34                      16.7
Communities                          1.66                     3.3
IDA                                  40.0                     80.0
Total (including contingencies)      50.00                    100.0
Source: Hamset Team budget estimates, September 2000 mission
Civil works represent only a relatively small fraction of the total budget at about 6.8%, focusing more on
rehabilitating health facilities rather than constructing new ones.
As a whole, the project supports proven, cost-effective interventions (prevention and early treatment), while
allowing for piloting of innovative activities especially community-managed response mechanisms. Project
allocation reflects this approach with a significant portion of the budget focusing on prevention
interventions of which about 24% is allocated to promotion of behavior change. In addition, approximately
36.0% of total project costs will be devoted to training, technical assistance, and special funds to involve
stakeholders, especially communities (the cormmunity managed fund alone represents about 16.5% of total
project costs).
The over-all allocation of expenditures across categories is reasonable, reflecting a concern for improving
access and quality of HAMSET control interventions. In addition, the yearly phasing of expenditures has
improved because of discussions between the participating ministries, agencies, and IDA.
Table 4.2: HAMSET Budget, (thousand USS)
Year I (20-0/01)  9,405.9          301.7              9,707.6
Year 2 (2001/02)       9,969.7               672.0               10,641.7
- 58 -



Year 3 (2002/03)       10,082.9              1,017.9             11,100.8
Year 4 (2003/04)       8,967.7               972.7              9,940.3
Year 5 (2004/04)       7,610.9               998.7               8,609.5
Total with             46,037.0              3,639.4            50,000
contingency
Source: HAMSET team budget estimates during September 2000 mission
After the September 2000 mission, the budget share of the first year declined from 25% to 19%. Despite
this improvement, it might still be useful to review the first year activities to see if some could be moved to
the succeeding years due to possible implementation and absorptive capacity constraints. A study (Tekie,
2000) commissioned by the IDA shows that the total expenditures for HAMSET-related activities for 2.5
years (from 1998 until the first half of 2000) was only about ERN 67.26 million or approximately US$
7.47 million at most. Thus, unless theTe are substantial underestimates in the figures obtained from MOH
and MOF for 1998-2000, the first year proposed spending for the HAMSET project alone is almost five
times the yearly average spending for HAMSET-related activities in 1998, 1999, and 2000 (assuming that
expenditures for the 2nd half of 2000 are the same as the first half s expenditures).
Table 4.3 Summary of Expenditure from all Sources for HAMSET-related activities
(1998 to first half of 2000, in thousand Nakfa)
Malaria         7,438.5           14,322.4          17,927.3            39,688.4
HIV/AlDS        5,116. 4          3,773.1           451                 9,340.8
STD            7,436.5            6,202.3           688.29              14,327.2
TB              1,929.0           1,807.4           176.1               3,912.5
Total          21,920.6           26,105.3          19,242.9            67,268.9
Source: Tekie, 2000.
Given the above observed expenditure patterns, as well as the limited implementation and absorptive
capacity of the sectors involved, mainly the impact of the Border conflict on Eritrea' human resources, it
may be difficult to disburse this amount during the initial one or two years of the project. This issue was
discussed during the September mission and the Government responded by stating that the above
expenditure patterns are due to local financial resource constraints rather than implementation constraints.
Nonetheless, as a precautionary planning measure, another reassessment of phasing of activities in relation
to the ability of the ministries, Zobas and sub-Zobas to implement the project was suggested by the
September mission. A more gradual build-up of capital/investment expenditures is being recommended
taking into account progress made in capacity building efforts over time. This issue was also discussed
- 59 -



during the project decision meeting and the general consensus was that the risk of frontloading does not
seem significant because of the good track record of the PMU, the quality of the project implementation
manual, and the first year implementation plan which was discussed and refined during negotiations.
A significant portion of project costs (80%) are expected to be covered by IDA. The Goveniment will
increasingly take over the financing of incremental recurrent costs aside from the agreed percentage of
PMU-related expenses during the course of the project with the expectation that cost recovery efforts
through charging of user fees will cover some of the program costs. These fees are mainly nominal amounts
for curative services although in the context of HAMSET, it is important to note that patients with TB,
STDs, and HIV/AIIDs are given services free of charge, thereby emphasizing the importance of preventing
these diseases (Forsberg, 2000). Communities are also expected to contribute to financing and managing
some of the interventions such as home and community-based care to assist families affected by HIV/AIDs
and TB and support to HIV/AIDS orphans. Eritrea has a well-established history of community
involvement in self-help activities. Nonetheless, it was also discussed during the September mission that
given the extent of poverty in the country, and the repercussions of the border conflict between Eritrea and
Ethiopia, that it would neither be realistic nor desirable in the short to medium term to expect conmmunities
to significantly contribute to recurrent costs/cost recovery efforts for HAMSET activities. Other studies
underscore this point about most households' limited ability to pay.
According to Donaldson (2000), the Eritrea Household Health Status, Utilization, and Expenditure Survey
(EHHSUES 1997) inquired about the amoLmt that households paid for medical care associated with their
illness. Table 4.4 provides information about the percentage of households that paid an amount for
different aspects of care by level of expenditure. However, the draft EHHSUES report did not indicate the
total amount paid by households for all treatments/inputs used for the illness reported. The results suggest,
however, that the majority of the population pay little for treatment aside from a registration fee and
perhaps a payment less than Nakfa 50 for drugs (the report does not provide a separate expenditure
category for drugs).
Table 4.4: Percent of Households Reporting an Illness who made Various Levels of Payment by
Type of Expenditure, 1997
Percent of Pi ople Paying
Amount    Registration    Drugs     X-ray       Room      Transport    Other
(Nakfa)
0              35%         53%       95%         96%         86%         95%
1-50           34%        43%        6%          3%          13%         4%
51-100         22%         3%        0.2%        0.4%        1%         0.4%
101+           9%          2%       _           0.4%        0.2%        0.8%
Source: EHHSUJES (1997)
The study by Weaver (1997) re-analyzed some of the EHHSUES data to estimate the proportion of
household income that was spent for health. Table 4.5 summarizes the findings. The figures shown
indicate that the households who utilize a health facility have, on average, a higher income (as measured by
consumption), and that these households have lower average expenditures for health. On average,
households spent about 4% of their consumption on health. Experience worldwide, has shown that poor
households spend from 3 to 5% of their consumption for health (Donaldson, 2000). This would imply that
the scope for increasing health fees would be restricted to the higher income households in Eritrea.
- 60 -



Table 4.5: Estimated Household Consumption and Health Expenditures among Total Sample
Households and among Households utilizing Health Facilities (in Nakfa), 1997
All Households(HH)
Consumption/Month                 562.6                377.5             427.4
Health Expenditures/Month          11.25                15.10             17.10
% of Consumption                   2%                   4%               4%
Households Using Health Facility
HH Consumption/Month              624.2                399.3             456.7
Health Expenditures /Month)        37.45                39.93            41.10
% of Consumption                   6%                   10%              9%
Source: Weaver (1997)
In light of these points, it is realistic to expect that the Government would have to commit to financing a
significant amount of the funding gap from the sixth year onwards of the project in order to sustain
HAMSET activities.
The recurrent cost requirements for the fifth year of the project is estimated at about US$ 4.90 million
(drugs, bednets, and condoms comprise about 76% of these costs) and only US$ 1.0 million if we classify
drugs, bednets, and condoms as investment and not recurrent costs. If we classify drugs, bednets and
condoms as recurrent costs then a minimum of US$ 6.10 million would be needed to finance recurrent costs
for the year after the project (less than 1% of the 1999 budget for health). This estimate assumes that
some training activities/refresher courses will still be held to maintain the level of staff quality and that
drugs, bednets, and condoms will be financed mostly by the GOE. Recurrent cost requirements after the
project's 5th year seem affordable given its marginal impact on the Government's health budget (it
represents less than 1 % of the health budget for 1999) and also because these costs will be spread across
the participating ministries/sectors. On the other hand, expenditure and financing pattems from 1998 until
the first half of 2000 have shown that about 80 % of HAMSET-related activities have been funded by
extemal partners and that the Government's share has been primarily allocated to salaries and to a smaller
extent, materials and supplies (Tekie, 2000). Thus, continued reliance on external financing might be
expected in the short to medium term unless HAMSET activities are programmed into the regular budget of
the Government. During negotiations the IDA and GOE agreed on a plan indicating how incremental
recurrent costs will be covered after project implementation. It will also be important for the GOE to
have a medium to longer term plan to ensure the sustainability of HAMSET control program activities
especially in the event of a shortfall in external financing and/or unsuccessful cease-fire negotiations with
Ethiopia. Strategies to ensure program sustainability will be one of the important areas to focus on in the
preparation of the health sector review.
The September appraisal mission also emphasized that more effort is needed to ensure that other external
- 61 -



partners' contributions to HAMSET control activities are incorporated in the GOE's program planning
and budgeting. Thus, it is essential to ensure that unless necessary, the future IDA credit will not be used
for activities that other donors are already currently funding or have agreed to finance especially, if these
are on a grant basis. A revised budget and narrative that maps out sources of financing and provides a
rationale for requested financing were discussed during negotiations.
Benefit/Impact Analysis
The main considerations regarding the allocation of resources under the HAMSET project that are
relevant to assessing its benefit/impact are the following:
First, the project will be nationwide in scope reaching about 3.5 million Eritreans. Some interventions are
expected to cover about 80 % of the population while some other activities will cover specific primary
target groups. Secondary target groups of the project are health personnel, teachers, and social workers.
Second, by addressing a set of diseases together instead of separately, economies of scale could be
achieved by preparing one project rather than individual disease-control projects. For example, the design
and delivery of health related information messages could be better coordinated and the training of health
workers could be combined whenever appropriate and, therefore, have a more holistic approach rather than
being oriented towards a specific disease. Certain common activities could also be coordinated or combined
in order to minimize project costs including: purchases of drugs and equipment, training activities of health
workers, IEC messages, and surveys whenever appropriate. The use of parallel systems could be
minimized. For example, support will be given to building on the existing health infornation system
(SEMISH) instead of having multiple management information systems for the participating ministries and
departments. All these actions have resulted in reducing total project costs by about 54 % from about US$
109 million from the original GOE proposals in January-March to about US$ 50 million during the
September 2000 mission.
Third, aside from reducing project cost preparation and implementation, it is also cost-effective to take
advantage of the synergistic effect of addressing a set of diseases through an integrated approach. In
particular, research findings from a recent study from Uganda has shown that there is a clear link between
uncomplicated malaria and HIV-infection in adult, i.e. that HIV-infected persons may have an increased
amount of gametocytemia (malaria parasites) that could amplify the transmission of malaria (French and
Gilks, 2000). There are several other reports (Hoffinan et al., 1999; Parise et al., 1998; Steketee et al., 1996;
and Verhoff et al., 1999) that have shown interactions between HIV and malaria in Africa, with the best
documented interaction established in pregnant women; pregnant women are HIV infected develop more
frequent and more dense parasites than do HIV-uninfected women. Malaria may also have an effect on
HIV infections in non- pregnant adults; a recent study in Malawi found that malaria-infected adults have
7-fold higher HIV-viral loads than malaria-free adults. In addition, certain STDs strongly increases HIV
transmission. Moreover, TB is the most frequent opportunistic infection in HIV positive individuals in
Sub-Saharan Africa.
Fourth, the project addresses a set of diseases to which a large share DLYs (discounted life years lost
due to premature deaths) can be attributed to (only limited information based on DALYs is available in
Eritrea). Malaria alone accounts for 31% of all out patients and 28.4% of all patients admitted in health
facilities. Aside from direct costs from treatment, productivity losses are also substantial; it is estimated
that an average malaria episode lasts from 7-12 days. Malaria is also the number one cause of death in
adults and the third most conimon cause of death in children (below 5 years). Over 10% of all annual
- 62 -



deaths are due to malana.
A cost-benefit analysis of the malaria interventions of the HAMSET project (Scheuermaier 2000)
concludes that these interventions seem cost effective given that their present value is US$ 22 million
relative to the cost to Eritrea of controlling the disease which is only US$ 5.4 million. The detailed analysis
of the economic costs of malaria in Eritrea using the Human Capital Method (taking into account the
private and non-private medical costs associated with the illness, as well as foregone productivity from
morbidity and mortality although measures of pain and suffering were excluded; assumptions are clearly
outlined in the document which is available in the project files) yielded the following results: the total direct
and indirect cost of malaria is equivalent to 3.4% of the GDP in 2000, direct costs accounting for about
56%. On an individual level, direct costs were US$ 3.0 per Eritrean while losses resulting from morbidity
and mortality (indirect costs) were US$ 2.4, amounting to a total annual per capita cost of US$ 5.4. Total
costs per household was US$ 32. The results are in line with other studies such as Sheppard (1991) which
derived estimates of the cost of malaria for sub-Saharan Africa, using case studies in four different African
countries. According to this study, total direct and indirect costs of malaria in 1987 were approximately
US$ 2.3 (US$ 3.4 in 2000 terms) per capita for the region, and double that in rural areas (US$ 6.8 in rural
areas).
The above direct productivity and treatment loss due to malaria does not take into account the loss due to
absenteeism. For the education sector in Africa, malaria is of substantial importance because it is
responsible for 3-8% of all cause absenteeism, and up to 50% of readily preventable absenteeism. Thus,
prevention of early malaria may be important to the educational achievement of children (Snow, 1999).
Aside from malaria, STD cases are increasing and at least 3.2% of the adult population is estimated to
suffer from HIV/AIDS, the number of cases is doubling each year. AIDS tends to be associated with other
infections such as TB, is 99% fatal, and tends to strike the most productive age group in a population
thereby causing severe personal loss, disruption of social structures (for example, loss of one or two
parents in a household), and worsening poverty. Given that these diseases are due to largely preventable
causes, HAMSET's focus on prevention and early treatment is well-directed and cost-effective.
Fifth, HAMSET aims to increase the population's access to and knowledge of prevention measures and
basic early treatment for HAMSET. The project budget is devoted to strengthening the quality of and
improving access to HAMSET health care services and at least 29% of the budget is allocated to
introducing mechanisms to minimize HAMSET transmission. In general, early prevention is important for
all diseases because prevention costs tend to be less than curative costs. Prevention is particularly crucial
with regard to HIV/AIDS because transmission prevention costs between US$ 20 to US$ 100 per case
--significantly lower than treatment costs which can reach hundreds of thousands of dollars, aside from the
personal and indirect losses incurred by families (WB 1997).
Table 4.6 outlines the results of a burden of disease, cost effectiveness study (for 10 disease groups which
were estimated to account for 59% of total deaths and 73% of discounted years of life lost in Eritrea
(Sebhatu et al., 1994).
- 63 -



Table 4:6 Cost-Effectiveness of Disease Interventions (Nafla/Discounted Life Year Saved)
Malaria                   753                   1,438                  67
ARI                        1 9                  113                    3 1
Pennatal/Maternal          11                   105                    8
Nutritional Deficiency     11                   203                    415
Diarrhea                   I 1                  84                     124
Cardiovascular            NA                    1,501                  6,901
AIDS/STDs                 2,605                 165                    7,436
Immunizable Disease       11                    5                      29
Tuberculosis              1 1                   18                     153
Injury/Trauma             NA                    NA                     50
All Other Disease         655                   203                    2,644
Source: Sebhatu et al., 1994
Prevention is clearly a more cost effective approach in Eritrea where the HIV/AIDs epidemic is at a
relatively early stage, concentrated in certain geographical and socio-economic groups and where the
Government is acting relatively early to i-educe the number of high risk transmissions and secondary
infections. In other words, promoting safer sexual practices will also reduce the spread of other debilitating
and costly sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis and gonorrhea. Reducing the incidence of AIDS
is likely to also reduce the incidence of TB. While widespread IEC will take place, most resources are
being allocated to target mainly high risk transmitters. In terms of treatment, emphasis is being placed on
cost effective palliative care.
On the other hand while malaria interventions included in the original GOE proposal have been proven to
be effective, more analysis would need to be undertaken to produce a set of appropriate cost-effective
interventions suited specifically for Eritrea's local characteristics. Thus it was suggested and agreed during
the March and September missions that the focus of malaria interventions will need to emphasize
improving vector control so that it becomes environmentally sound and more cost-effective by stratifying
vector control activities based on the results of operational research, piloting the use of alternative
community-based vector control activities and insecticides with the same efficacy but lower toxicity and
environmental impact than DDT. Short temi technical assistance for stratification of country and GIS will
be financed by USAID while the IDA credit will finance operational costs of efficacy and cost-effectiveness
studies, alternative insecticides, and community-based altemative vector control pilot activities.
-64 -



Sixth, by strengthening coordination within the Ministry of Health and through establishing and
improving partnerships with other ministries and stakeholders, the project seeks to mitigate both the
health and socio-economic impact of HAMSET in a more holistic, broad-based manner. For example,
actions to improve the status of women such as promoting girls' participation in schools could help enhance
women's knowledge and negotiating/bargaining power with their sexual partners in order to protect
themselves from harmful sexual practices. The project will also support social safety nets that help reduce
the vulnerability of poor households including employment generating projects and piloting of an
affordable, home-based system for care and referral for HAMSET patients. This home-based system could
include provision of supplemental labor, food supplements, clothing school fees, healthcare expenses, as
appropriate, to patients following treatment for TB or to families with a member sick with AIDS. A
number of pilot initiatives will be carried-out in different settings (urban/rural) and Zobas in order to get
test what works given different circumstances. These pilot initiatives will be closely followed by community
social workers identified by the community.
Finally, HAMSET aims to contribute to improved health outcomes through reduced morbidity and
mortality rates, which from an investment in human capital perspective will significantly increase the
over-all welfare and productivity of Eritreans. By investing in interventions that have public good
properties, that reduce the spread of diseases such as HIVAIDS/STDs, TB and malaria, the negative
extemalities involved with contracting the disease (poor health, low productivity, and burden on household
members who have to care for the sick member) will also be reduced. Assuming that new outpatient
contacts increase by even half of the goal of 30% (15%) within the five year period as a result of
increased access to effective services, additional episodes of illness per year would be dealt with, with
concomitant improvements in both health and economic benefits. If it is able to achieve its main objectives
then HAMSET will: (a) increase the number of patients seeking early treatment for STDs, TB, and
malaria by 30%; (b) increase both the number of condoms sold and use of bed nets in selected areas by
30%; (c) reduce the incidence of HIV among army conscripts, blood donors, pregnant women by 20% from
2001 to 2010; (d) reduce the number of labor days lost to malaria reduced by 50%; i.e. from 7-12 days to
about 3.5-6 days, and (e) improve the ability of key stakeholders especially communities to manage,
implement, and sustain the HAMSET mitigation and assessment activities.
Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis undertaken by Scheuermaier (2000) on HAMSET's malaria interventions yielded
the following results (table 4.7):
*   Variation in the project's malaria intervention cost: The project remains cost-effective, even if the
cost of the World Bank intervention increases by up to 50%. The project will cease to be cost-effective
when costs increase by more than 101.8 %.
*   Variation in the project benefits: the cost-effectiveness of the project diminishes relatively rapidly,
when project benefits decrease. If benefits fall by more than 50.4 %, the project ceases to be
cost-effective.
*   Variation in the cost of malaria: when the lower and upper cost estimates from previous malaria
studies are used, as opposed to the average of the two, there is a wide variation in the cost of malaria,
from US$ 11.2m, equivalent to 1.7% of GDP, to US$ 32.7m, equivalent to 5% of GDP (these numbers
match existing estimates of the cost of malaria, which range from 1% to 5% of GDP). In the low
malaria cost scenario, the CER falls to 0.77 compared to 0.37 in the high malaria cost scenario.
- 65 -



*   Higher income growth: the paper assumes a constant real growth rate in income of only 2% reflecting
the stagnating real income levels in Eritrea over the last 50 years. Should economic growth in Eritrea
gain momentum, the project becomes even more cost-effective. Assuming (unlikely) East-Asian real
growth rates of 8% per head, the cost of malaria rises to US$ 51.1m, equivalent to 7.8% of GDP,
owing mainly to the higher value of future productive losses. Under this scenario, the CER of the
project increases to 0.20.
Table 4.7 Sensitivity Analysis for HAMSET Malaria Interventions
Present (base scenario)    21,960                    0.50
+50% in malaria cost       21,960                    0.74
-50% in project benefits   21,960                    0.99
High malaria cost          32,706                    0.37
High income growth         51,066                    0.20
Source: Scheuermaier (2000)
Risk Analysis
Low Demandfor Services and Lag in Quality Improvements
The Eritrea Poverty Assessment Report (W3, 1996) estimates that the average attendance at health facilities
is low at around 0.7 to 0.8 and 7-8 per person per year relative to other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa
and more affluent countries, respectively. Low utilization of services might continue or only improve
marginally in spite of increased access to health facilities. In addition, quality improvements such as
training sufficient staff and making sure that facilities are well stocked with drugs and equipment might
also not be attained in the envisaged pace or time. HAMSET will try to address low demand through
improved IEC or strategic communications for behavioral change based on Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices
(KAP) surveys that will be undertaken during the first year of the project. Quality improvements will also
be closely monitored and quality indicators such as availability of drugs and trained staff are being
incorporated in the monitoring and evaluation system.
Institutional Capacity and Phasing of Project Activities
As a result of the border conflict, there might be weak institutional capacity to implement the project
especially at the Zoba and sub-Zoba levels. Discussions during the September mission resulted in an
improvement in phasing of activities so that the project implementation is not too front-loaded (share of
first year expenditures out of total project costs declined from 25% to 19%). The mission requested the
GOE to further assess whether additional improvements can be made in phasing of activities for the first 2
years of the project. The GOE was also asked to identify any resource gaps and institutional constraints
that could potentially hinder proper project implementation and reach agreements on how these can be
adequately addressed. These were important issues discussed during negotiations.
-66 -



Coordination Across sectors
This project is the first time that the Government will be pursuing an integrated, multi-sectoral approach
that will be coordinated mainly by the health sector. Thus strong and supportive mechanisms for
inter-sectoral coordination would need to be established and maintained on a regular basis to make sure that
HAMSET activities are well-linked in order to take advantage of any economies of scale and to deliver a
holistic package of health-related services while using different means/channels of delivery (e.g. health
workers in health facilities, teachers in schools, agricultural extension workers, social workers, as well as
youth and women's groups). Detailed implementation arrangements are being worked out in order to
establish mechanisms for regular communication across sectors; regular videoconference meetings have
been arranged between the project implementation manual drafting committee and the IDA project team.
The revised project implementation manual which maps out the project implementation arrangements was
an essential topic of discussion during negotiations.
Sustainability
The estimated minimum share of recurrent expenditures required to continue with HAMSET activities
during the sixth year represents only a small share (less than 1%) of the 1999 Government budget for
health. The budgetary demand on MOH could even be less because costs could be spread across other
participating ministries such as MOE. It must be emphasized, however, that this estimate is conservative
and only covers ongoing HAMSET activities -- expansion or scaling up costs have not been accounted for.
Additional resources to finance both capital and recurrent costs would be needed should the project be
scaled up, demand increase for certain services/activities, and pilot activities be replicated in other areas.
This issue becomes even more critical after a review of HAMSET-related expenditures from 1998-2000
(first half) which showed that about 80% of total expenditures for the 2.5 years have been funded by
external partners. Thus it is possible that reliance on external financing of HAMSET activities might be a
more realistic expectation during the short-to medium tern although the Ministry of Finance has already
indicated during the September mission that it is ready to increase the budget for activities related to
HAMSET control. During negotiations, the IDA and GOE agreed on a plan indicating how incremental
recurrent costs will be covered after the project implementation period. It will also be important to have a
medium to longer term plan to ensure the sustainability of program activities especially in the event of an
unexpected shortfall in externalfinancing and/or unsuccessful ceasefire negotiations with Ethiopia. This
could be an important area of consideration in the preparation of the health sector note.
The September mission also emphasized that more effort is needed to ensure that other external partners'
contributions to HAMSET control activities are incorporated in the GOE's program planning and
budgeting. A revised budget and narrative that maps out sources of financing and provides a rationale for
requested financing were discussed during negotiations.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Years Ending
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            9.4        9.9       10.1        8.9        7.6        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3         0.7        1.0        1.0        0.9        0.9       0.9
Total Project Costs           9.7       10.6       11.1        9.9        8.5        0.9        0.9
Total Financing               9.7       10.6       11.1        9.9        8.5        0.9        0.9
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    8.2        9.1        8.7        7.5        6.4       0.0        0.0
Government
Central                 1.4        1.5        2.0         1.8       1.7       0.9         0.9
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.1         0.1        0.4        0.6        0.5       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      8.3        9.2        9.1         8.1       6.9        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 68 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ERITREA: HIVIAIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Procurement
Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firms or individuals
financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997).
Procurement management
Procurement under the project will be carried by the Project Management Unit (PMU) under the
Ministry of Health on behalf of the participating agencies (PAs), which include the Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Defense (Medical Services),
Ministry of Human Welfare, Ministry of Local Govemment, Ministry of Information, Ministry of
Transport and Communications and relevant NGOs (NIJEW, NUEYS, Confederation of Eritrean
Workers). The rationale for centralized procurement is that MOH-PMU has gained sufficient
experience under the present IDA-financed Health Project to provide coordination with other
Ministries and carry out procurement on their behalf efficiently. The PMU has been assessed by the
mission as procurement-capable under LACI requirements and includes two experienced staff (a civil
engineer and a procurement officer) that have taken advanced procuirement courses at ILO
(procurement of civil works) and Mombasa (procurement of goods). The additional procurement staff
will also take these courses.
The PMU will carry out procurement based on the following arrangements:
* A pre-determined annual budget will be established for each of the PAs based on their
requirements. The PAs will draft a precise list of procurement requirements, establish priorities,
and furnish to the PMU the quantities, technical specifications, and TORs for consulting
services/training. Based on these requirements, the PMU will carry out procurement based on an
agreed procurement schedule acceptable to the Association.
* Emergency and other urgent purchases/TA will be carried out by PMU through specific, fast
track, procurement actions (direct purchase; shopping; LIB; IAPSO, etc., to be specified in the
DCA and manual of procedures).
* Minor procurement actions (shopping; individual, short term, consulting services) at local level
will be carried out by the PAs through specific arrangements stated in the manual of procedures
and agreed during appraisal with the PMU.
*   Large purchases will be carried out by the PMU under ICB on behalf of all PAs. Individual
requirements, however, will be delivered to each PA following arrangements specified in the
manual of procedures and/or bid documents. PAs will have the option to (i) collect their
requirements at a principal warehouse in Asmara or Massawa; (ii) have their requirements
delivered at specified storage in Asmara or provincial centers; or (iii) sub-contract transport with
the private sector for delivery anywhere in the country.
- 69 -



*  Advance procurement will be carried out wherever possible to allow for disbursement for goods
and services immediately after effectiveness date. Advertisement for the contracts (both goods and
consulting services) will be published in the Development Business as GPNs immnediately after
project appraisal.
The project appears complex owing to the number of ministries involved, yet it has a good probability
of being implemented in a satisfactory way because of the following reasons:
*   Adequate coordination and management structure, leaving to the individual ministries the full
responsibility for the implementation of their respective sub-components;
*  Good coordination skills by the lead agency (MOH) with previous satisfactory performance under
the ongoing IDA financed project adding to a strong commitment by all participating agencies;
and
* Satisfactory staffing at central level for the lead executing agencies such as MOLG, MOH, MOF
and MOE.
Procurement risk rating, supervision and planning
The procurement risk rating for this project is low. The procurement implementing agency of this
project, the PMU has implemented an IDA-assisted project (Eritrea Health), which has a very good
track record in procurement management. Procurement supervision will be undertaken every six
months during the implementation of the project.
A procurement assessment of the implementing agency was carried out by IDA, and procurement
plans and actions were agreed at appraisal with the implementing agency.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil works, equipment, vehicles, supplies as well as drugs will be bulked to the extent possible and
procured as follows:
-  Individual contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to exceed US$ 100,000 and US$ 200,000
(only for furniture available locally) equivalent will be procured by International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) using the IDA's appropriate standard bidding documents.
- Individual contracts for the purchase of goods with an estimated value above US$ 30,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,000,000 will be procured under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) following procedures acceptable to the IDA.
- Individual contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 will be procured through
national shopping up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 3,000,000 by comparing at least
three price quotations from qualified suppliers.
IAPSO may be used for the purchase of a limited number of vehicles and units of office equipment
needed at the start of the project.
Civil works
Due to the relatively small volume and size of construction works, and their geographical dispersion,
civil works under the project are unlikely to attract international competition, apart from foreign
contractors already located in Eritrea who will be allowed to bid. Individual contracts are expected to
cost less than US$ 100,000 and will be procured through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount
- 70 -



of about US$ 5 million equivalent. NCB will be also used for packages of contracts such as
construction of social centers located in neighboring areas, since the value of the contract (US$
300,000) is small and unlikely to attract intemational competition. Smaller contracts mostly of
rehabilitation, estimated to cost less than US$ 75,000 up to an aggregate not exceeding US$ 400,000
may be procured through simplified procedure acceptable to the IDA. Contracts of less than US$
30,000 may be procured through community participation procedures if local capacity will be deemed
adequate for the purpose.
Consultants
All consultants will be hired in accordance with the IDA Guidelines on Consultants. For firms, Quality
and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be used for all contracts above US$ 100,000; Fixed Budget
selection method may be used for TA contracts for training or capacity building since their cost
estimate is well known. Qualifications selection method may be used for small contracts at community
level, estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000. These include assignments to support health impact
assessment and micro-projects; and communications campaign in rural areas.
All individual consultants will be hired based on qualifications.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-~~Method----
Epd_ue Ca            yNthegr2                                                     NSF.
1. Works                               0.00           3.31          0             0.00         3.31
(0.00)        (2.70)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.70)
2. Goods                               4.69           0.00          2.37          0.00         7.06
(3.30)        (0.00)         (2.00)       (0.00)       (5.30)
3. Drugs and HAMSET devices            14.34          0.00          0.00          0.00         14.34
(15.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (15.00)
4. Special Funds                       0.00           0.00          9.35          0.00         9.35
(0.00)        (0.00)         (5.80)       (0.00)       (5.80)
5. Consulting Services, Studies        0.00           0.00          9.14          0.00         9.14
(0.00)        (0.00)         (9.60)        (0.00)      (9.60)
6. Project supervision and             0.00           0.38          1.22          0.00         1.60
Management                             (0.00)         (0.30)        (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.60)
6. Recurrent Costs                                                                4.87         4.87
(0.00)      (0.00)
7. PPF                                 0.40                                                    0.40
(0.40)                                                 (0.40)
Total'                              19.43          3.69          21.96         4.89         50.00
(18.65)       (3.05)         (18.30)                   (40.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3i
Unallocated is (0.60)
- 71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts for civil works greater than IiS$ 500,000 and goods greater than US$ 100,000 will be subject
to prior review by the IDA.
For consulting services, all TORs are subject to prior review by the IDA. All contracts above US$
100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals will also be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subet to
Threshold               Proment                  Prior Review
Expenditure Cat9qS_o      (US$ thousands)                                     (US$ millions)
1. Works                         >1(110                   ICB                All contracts for ICB
<100                     NCB              Only first 2 contracts
<75           Community Participation
2. Goods                         >l00                      ICB               All contracts for ICB
>30<:100                  NCB                Only first 2 contracts
<3()                     NS
3. Services                      >100                     QCBS                      All
_________ __  <100                Other                First 2 contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds general!y differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Frocurement Adviser for guidance.
- 72 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Only one special account will be necessary, since procurement for most large purchases/TA will be
centralized at PMU. The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting
procedures for the project will be acceptable to the Association. Under the direction of the PMU Director,
the Project Management Unit will be responsible for the entire financial management, accounting, and
disbursement functions of the project, including management of the Special Account, processing contracts,
and payments for goods and services.
Review of financial management systems. A Financial Management Capacity Assessment was
carried out during pre-appraisal to determine the borrower's and implementing agencies' capacity to
maintain financial management systems, including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
systems to ensure that the agencies can provide to the Association accurate and timely infornation
regarding project resources and expenditures, in accordance with OP/BP 10.02. The review focused on
assessment of the Finance Unit of the lead Ministry of Health, Accounting Units in the Zobas, as well
as arrangements for financial reporting and accountability for project funds by the Health PMU, which
is implementing an IDA funded project with regional-based operations. The review found the PMU
systems satisfactory, and expected to be ready for PMR-based disbursement mechanism after
successful implementation of the action plan prepared and agreed with the borrower.
As part of project appraisal, capacity of other implementing agencies and Zoba level structures have
been reviewed and in view of the limitations in the manpower available for accounting and financial
management at decentralized levels, a number of next steps have been agreed upon with the
Govemment, including staffing and training.
Project planning and budgeting. The project financial management system will be documented in the
Manual of Financial Procedures, to include statements and explanations of the project's budgetary
policies and procedures that describe responsibilities for budget preparation, adoption, execution,
monitoring, and reporting. The Ivianual will also cover Financial Policies and Procedures, Accounting
and Internal Control Systems, Procurement and Contract Administration and Monitoring System,
Financial Reporting, Flow of Funds, and Auditing Arrangements. The Manual is under preparation,
with guidance from a financial management expert, and was completed during negotiations. A draft
outline of the manual of financial procedures was prepared and discussed with the PMU during
appraisal.
Disbursements, replenishments and documentation. While it is desirable to have PMR-based
disbursement from the beginning of the project, it has been decided that the project will move towards a
LACI-based system only in a progressive manner. Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement
procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, i.e. Direct Payment,
Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if appropriate), will be followed. During the transition
period (about 18 months), disbursement of funds will be made against Withdrawal Applications with
full documentation or against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) submitted by the borrower.
To facilitate the flow of funds to the project, the PMU will open bank accounts as follows:
Special Account in US Dollars for IDA funds.
Project Account in Nakfa for Counterpart funds and local expenditures. Transfers to the regions
- 73 -



will also be made from this account.
Special Accounts in US Dollars for funds from other partner agencies, as may be appropriate.
Transfer of funds to regions and sub-regions, as also for activities to be carried out at National level by
implementing ministries/agencies, will be through program advances following submission of a request
for funds based on approved work plans, together with accountability for previous advances, if any.
Once the necessary documentation is reviewed and approved by the PMU, funds will be transferred
from the Project Account to the regional bank account/implementing agencies' account, either by
issuing a check or bank transfer. Details on surrender of advances issued to the Zobas/implementing
agencies, and accountability of the funds will be included in the Manual of Financial Procedures.
Project accounting system. Consultants will be hired to help the Project Management Unit adapt or
expand its existing well functioning financial management system including a comprehensive manual of
financial procedures, Chart of Accounts, and a fully integrated project accounting structure, using an
appropriate accounting software. The Financial Management System will produce a Project Financial
Statement, including Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, Special Account Reconciliation
Statement, Cash Withdrawal Statement, and Cash Forecast. The Chart of Accounts will facilitate
presentation of summary expenditures by Component, Activity, and Disbursement Category. The
Project Management Unit will maintain accounts and make payments for eligible expenditures.
Overall, the project will satisfy the IDA's minimum financial management requirements. Appraisal of
the existing financial management capacity at decentralized levels indicates that there are potential
risks associated with capacity limitations, and lack of clear written standards and procedures that give
guidance for intemal control and accounting, with clear delegation and segregation of duties among
agencies. These risks may result in unintentional errors, omissions, miscalculations, late submission of
financial statements, and delays in the flow of funds to the decentralized levels. Successful
implementation of the financial management action plan will, however, allow the project to satisfy the
IDA's minimum requirements under OP/BP1O.02. Actions required to meet requirements for
PMR-based disbursement, under LA4CI/FINMI, have been developed and agreed with the borrower
during appraisal, and include development of a fully integrated financial management system,
incorporating project reporting formats, and strengthening accounting systems and staffing in the
decentralized levels and agencies.
Successful adaptation of the financial management system, with the help of Financial Management
Consultants, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of
effectiveness. A financial management review of the program should be undertaken by an IDA
Financial Management Specialist within twelve months of effectiveness to assess progress and initiate
the process of conversion.
Financial reporting. The appraisal mission has reviewed the relevant outputs such as formats of the
various periodic and annual reports to be generated from the financial management system. The
financial reports will be designed to provide quality and timely information to project management,
implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project performance.
The main reports will include standard financial statements (e.g. sources and application of funds,
expenditures classified by project components, disbursement categories, and expenditure types, and
comparison with budgets, short-term forecasts of expenditure, unit costs for key items, etc.). Annual
Financial Statements and Annexes and notes for the project will be subject to audit by independent
- 74 -



auditors and submitted to the IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Audit arrangements. In order to comply with IDA reporting requirements, an independent and
qualified audit firm, with experienced staff, will carry out an annual audit of the project accounts. A
contract, renewable annually and subject to satisfactory performance, will be concluded between the
borrower and the selected audit firm for the life of the project. Terms of Reference for the annual audits
will cover the IDA requirements for audit of the project accounts and review of intemal control
systems, inter-alia, for reliability of PMRs. Any firm of auditors appointed to carry out the audit
should meet the IDA's requirements in terms of independence, qualifications, and experience. In order
to be cost-efficient and since the documentation will be managed by the same unit, the Govemment has
proposed to use the same firm that is auditing, in a satisfactory manner, the existing Health project.
In summary, the development of the financial management system will have two phases: interim and
final. The interim phase will involve setting up financial management and accounting structure that
meets minimum financial management requirements under OB/BP 10.02. This will be adapted from the
existing system for the Health project, and should be in place when the project becomes effective. The
final phase will involve setting up a fully integrated computerized project accounting system, using an
appropriate accounting software, in readiness for adoption of PMR-Based Disbursements, within 18
months of effectiveness. The action plan below provides the actions to be taken during each of the two
phases, and the dates they are due to be completed.
Actions to satisfy Minimum IDA Requirements
The table below summarizes actions required to satisfy the IDA's minimum financial management
requirements. Major actions include the documentation of accounting systems and procedures in a
Manual of Financial Procedures, and the recruitment of appropriately qualified staff for the
Management Office and the regions. Responsibility for implementation of the action plan is with the
Ministry of Health. Successful implementation of the action plan will allow the project to satisfy the
IDA's minimum financial management requirements under OP/BP 10.02.
1    CoePoect Management Team on board.               Oct. 16, 2000      Draft organizational structure
agreed and confirmed during
Appraisal.
2    Appointment of Project Accountant.                Oct. 16, 2000     Recruitment of Project
Accountant done.
Appointment/deployment of Zoba Project Accountants.   By Effectiveness    Process to identify Zoba project
accountants started.
3    Training of Project Accountant and Zoba project   By Effectiveness    Training package to be agreed
accountants completed (training to cover project                   with the IDA and delivered
accounting and IDA disbursement procedures).                       during project launch.
4    Develop dedicated project accounting system, using  By Effectiveness    With assistance of financial
existing accounting software, and reporting package.               management consultants.
5    Accounting procedures and internal controls fully  Oct. 31, 2000    Process completed.
documented in a Manual of Financial Procedures.
- 75 -



6    Design and setting up of books of accounts to be   Oct. 31, 2000      With assistance of PMU
maintained for the project.                                          A & F Officer, and
consultant.
7    Arrangements to ensure that accounting records are  Oct. 31, 2000     Documented in the
maintained on a timely basis, self balanced and all                  Manual of Financial
accounts reconciled at all times to ensure accuracy and              Procedures.
reliability.
8    Standards and explanations of budgetary policies and  Oct. 31, 2000   Documented in the
procedures developed.                                                Manual of Financial
Procedures.
9    Design of a Chart of Accounts (which is the primary  Oct. 16, 2000    With the assistance of
tool for ensuring availability of the information                    consultant. Also covered
required, for achieving consistency in account                       in the Manual of
classification).                                                     Financial Procedures.
10   Appropriate banking arrangements to be made, e.g.,  By Effectiveness    Authorized bank
opening of Special Accounts in US Dollars and project                signatories to be
accounts in Nakfa, at Head Office and Regions.                       communicated to IDA.
Provision for designates
may be necessary.
11   Appointment of an independent extemnal auditor in  By Effectiveness    Terms of Reference were
accordance with Terms of Reference acceptable to the                 discussed and agreed at
IDA.                                                                 negotiations.
12   Flow of and accountability for funds to line ministries,    Oct. 31, 2000  To be based on draft
agencies, Zobas and sub-Zobas fully documented in the                organizational structure.
Manual of Financial Procedures.
- 76 -



Actions Required to achieve LA CI/FINMI Compliance.
The table below details the required actions to be taken in order to comply with Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) requirements for PMR-Based Disbursement procedures.
1       Development of a fully integrated financial    June 31, 2001      With assistance of
management system using an appropriate                           financial
accounting software.                                             management/IT
Accounting systems and staffing in the Zobas                     consultants. System
strengthened.                                                    to run parallel with
the manual system
for at least 3 months.
2       Project reporting formats developed including:  By Effectiveness    To be agreed with IDA.
.   Sources and Application of Funds statement;                  Transitional PMRs to be
.   Special Account reconciliation;                              submitted to IDA under existing
.   Contract and other procurement infornation;                  disbursement procedures.
.   Project progress information;
.   Forecasts for subsequent 6 months period.
3       Transition to PMR-Based Disbursement.          Oct. 31, 2001      FMS to review and initiate
process of conversion to
PMR-based Disbursement
within twelve months of
effectiveness.
NB: The appointment of a reasonably qualified and experienced Project Accountant as well as the
successful implementation of the financial management system, should facilitate the introduction of
PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of effectiveness. In this regard, a financial management
review of the program should be undertaken by an IDA Financial Management Specialist within twelve
months of effectiveness to assess progress.
The following additional actions will ensure effective project financial management in both phases.
I      Project objectives, components and sub              Completed         To be set out in the project
components to be financed, and expenditure                           documentation.
categories associated with each
component/sub-component determined.
2      Laws, rules and regulations that may affect any financial   Completed  To be set out in the project
management aspect of the project determined.                         documentation.
- 77 -



3      Institutional arrangements for the overall policy guidance   Completed  To be set out in the project
of the project's financial management activities.                   documentation.
4      Identification of Inputs and Outputs of financial  Completed         To be set out in the project
information required to track project implementation.               documentation.
5      Refinement of Inputs and Outputs of physical information   By Effectiveness   To be set out in the project
to be identified and matched with financial information.            documentation.
6      Determination of availability and reliability of   By Effectiveness   To be set out in the project
information for performance indicators.                             documentation.
7      Arrangements for recording project impacts, outcomes,  By Effectiveness   To be set out in the project
outputs, and inputs that are required to assess project             documentation.
progress toward project objectives.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
E=ES~~~~~~~~~~~
1. Civil Works                                2.70                           80%
2. Goods                                      5.30                            80%
3.Drugs, Condoms, and Bednets                 15.00                100% Foreign Expenditures
80% Local Expenditures
4.Special Funds/Grants                        5.80                 100% Foreign Expenditures
_________________90 % Local Expenditues
5. Consultants Services, Studies &            9.60                           100%
Training
6. Project Supervision & Management           0.60                            80%
7. PPF refinancing                            0.40
Unallocated                                   0.60
Total Project Costs                           40.00
Total                                         40.00
- 78 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Projsc Schedule                                   Plin:d                      Acta
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             10/20/99                     10/20/99
Appraisal mission departure                     09/18/2000                   09/18/2000
Negotiations                                    11/08/2000                   11/08/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/15/2001
Prepared by:
Ministries of Health, Education, Labor and Human Welfare, Agriculture, Defense, Tourism, Information,
Finance, Local Government; National Association of Eritrean Women; National Union of Women Youth;
National Union of Workers.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Eva Jarawan                       Task Team Leader
Christine Pena                    Economist
Donald Bundy                      School Health
Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo          Health Specialist (during preparation)
Magda Lara-Resende                Enviromnent and Community participation
Lawrence Barat                    Malaria Specialist
Gordon Temple                     Project Design and Costing Specialist
Cecilia C. Versoza                Internal Communications Specialist
E.V. Shantha                     Implementation Specialist
Sheila Dutta                     HIV/AIDS Specialist
Marijke Becx-Bleumink             TB specialist
Francesco Sarno                   Lead Procurement Specialist
John Otieno Ogallo                Financial Management Specialist
Nathalie J. Lopez-Diouf           Program Assistant
Quality Assurance Team: Ok Pannenborg (AFTH4); Irene Xenakis (AFTQK); Christopher Walker
(HDNHE).
Quality Enhancement Review: Dan Ritchie (SDV); Daniel Miller, Susan Stout, Mariam Claeson
(HDNHE).
- 79 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Draft Project Implementation Arrangements (received on July 24, 2000).
- First Draft Implementation Manual.
- Draft Financial Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Mission Aide-Memoire - February 25, March 16, 2000.
- Mission Aide-Memoire - May 8-20, 2000.
- Mission Aide-Memoire - for September, 2000.
C. Other
- Primary Health Care Policy and Policy Guidelines - September 1998 - Ministry of Health - Eritrea.
- Five Year Strategic Plan to Prevent and Control HIV/AIDS in the State Of Eritrea - August 1997 -
Ministry of Health - Eritrea.
- Five Year Strategic plan to Control Malaria in the State of Eritrea- Ministry of Health - Eritrea
WHO/PHARPE I & II.
- HIV/AIDS/STD National Control Policy & Policy Guidelines.
- Malaria National Control Policy & Policy Guidelines.
- Tuberculosis National Control Policy & Policy Guidelines.
- Two year strategic plan for Tuberculosis Control- Ministry of Health.
- Eritrea Essential Drug List.
- Eritrea Standard Guidelines.
- HHRR Inventory - Ministry of Health, 1999.
- SEMISH Annual Report - 1999.
- School health Policy - Environmental Evaluation, Mr. Arata - May 2000.
- USAID Mission Report & Evaluation of Malaria & AIDS Program.
- HIV/AIIDS & STDs Policy and Policy Guidelines - Ministry of Health, Eritrea.
- Sexual & Reproductive Health Policy and Guidelines - Ministry of Health, Eritrea.
- Child Health Policy and Guidelines - Ministry of Health, Eritrea.
- Environmental Health Policy and Guidelines - Ministry of Health, Eritrea.
- Donaldson, D. 2000. Eritrea-Health Sector Note: Economic and Financial Analysis. Draft Technical
Report - Asmara, Eritrea.
- Forsberg, B.C. 2000. Review of HAMSET Project. Technical Report. Asmara, Eritrea.
- Scheuemaier, M. 2000. Measuring the Cost-effectiveness of Achieving Malaria Control Objectives in a
Health Project in Eritrea. Draft Technical Report. Washington, D.C..
*Including electronic files
- 80 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ERITREA: HIVIAIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                   IBRD      IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P039264       1996 Entrea                  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND                       0.00     17.50      0.00      2.10      2.12      0.00
P043124       1998 Eritrea                 HEALTH PROJECT                                   0.00     18.30      0.00     14.55      8.46      0.12
P050354       1998 Eritrea                 HUMAN RES.DEV                                    0.00     53.00      0.00     30.42      3.73      0.00
P068463      2001 Entrea                   INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD PROJECT               0.00     40.00      0.00     37.99      0.00      0.00
P034154       1998 Entrea                  PORTS                                            0.00     30.30      0.00     15.22      9.93      0.00
P044651       1997 Eritrea                 ROAD ENGR. CREDIT                                0.00      6.32      0.00      0.82      1.11      0.00
Total:       0.00     165.42       0.00     101.10     25.35      0.12
ERITREA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1997                     SEF Tesinma                            0.73       0.21       0.00       0.00      0.40       0.21      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                0.73       0.21       0.00        0.00       0.40       0.21       0.00       0.0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                    Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ERITREA: HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB (HAMSET) Control Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan      Low.
Eritrea    Atrica   Income       Development diamond
1999
Pountiainno mid-veer tmiilIons)                         4A n        42      2 417                   Life expectancy
GNP OAr cenita (AdDas method. US$)                       200n       500        410
r.NP (AtIas method. USS bilifons)                        n 79       p21        988
Averaoe annuai arowth. 1993-99
Prmi,lattinn 1%)1                                         ?7         ?         19                          f-
l.abor force t%l                                          2.7        2.6       2.3      GNP                                Gross
Moat recent estimate t1aftest vear available, 199349)                                   capita                          primr
Poverty 1% of oOoul4tion below natfonat oovetiv trne)
Urtban noniltaltlon (% of iatol 0ooDUlatton                I 8       34         A1
I ifA at tattanev at hirth lverts                          St I            r    a fir)
Infant mortaiitv (oero 1. X0 live brtMs)                  61         92         77
Child rnarritritinn (% at7chitdren unde, il               44         32         43                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved witer source (5 of oonultation)          7        43         f4
Illiterwev /%1  fOovutationttoe 154)                      47         3-9        39
Gross orimarv enrollment f% of schoolaoe eoooulatont      5S3        78       9f               Eritrea      Low-income group
Maio                                                    59         R.s       102
FemAle                                                  4ft        71         1;
iKEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       199Si      1999
Economic ratlos*
GOP fUSS bilftions)                              ..                 0.68      067
(r4ss dnrmsltir invostnent/f r)P                                    47 2      446         
Exoorts of coods and sr,vices/GOP                           .       16 0      14.9                      Trade
Cr.nsn donmextic savinns/f!)P                                      -24 5      -2.1 I
Grnss naionatl savinnsiIp                         ::?2                        14A 0
Cuirrent ar:count hstlancetGt9P                                    -5 i0:    t32 fi6?
C4wrant ar,,coont                               0       -42 13    ~~~Domestic     -
Interact navments/ntifP                                                        (1Ds t  0                              Investment
Total debt/GOP                                                      20S       33.5      Savings 
Total dtht Ienrvtirexrors                                             15       1 4
Present value of debtlGOP
Prenent value of dehtleoorts
Indebtedness
19?949  1959.99       199S       1999   1999-S3
(everaoe annual arowth)
r.P                                             6 r ani   3 9          0       61              Eritrea -     Low-income group
r* NP npr arAota                                18 a      $ g'      ,1         3 :5
Exoorts of ooods and services           ..    -1.6    -46.6         -4.0      16.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
f% of GDP)
Anririjltire                                             1f 69      16 1      1fi 0     s
Indiustrv                                                33 6       27 4      27 3      10
Manjifacturino                                         3n) 0      14 1       13 9
Services                                                 49 5       56.5      5 t9
Private ronnsjmotion                                                7fi S11   72 s1,    -5'     94   95   96   97   98   99
Ge neral nnvemmrnt cnnsurmntinn                                     49 f1     47 6                     GDI        e  GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                     .                 87.6      79.5
la veraoe annualrowt  1979-89  19A89-99  1998  1999  Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaso annul aorowmtht
Aoriculture                                       .         ..                    .    60
Induistrv                                                                              60 yl#
Manufacturino
Sr rvi r res                                                                           20 -       '   \ >
Private consumotion                               .20                                          94   95   96   97   9
Genepral nanvArnmplnt cnsiimntion                                                      -                              Nl40
Gross dnmastir: investment                                                              60
Imnorls of nonds and servicps                            12 4        1 5     _in n             -Exports           C-Imports
Gross national nrodict                                    4 fi      -3 2       1 q
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldl comoared with its income-oroun averaoe. It data are missin,. the diamond will
he inromnlete
- 82 -



Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation- %)
Domesffc prices
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                                     16.6       8.3    3:
Implicit GDP deflator                                                2.7      12.6     2
Government finance                                                                     10
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                                     34.8      29.2             94    95    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                                             -11.6    -16.2                    GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -41.4    -50.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                  28        26       00
n .a.
n.a.40
Manufactures                                                        7
Total imports (cif)                                                 527       507
Food                                                               75                2007
Fuel and energy                                                     6                       *_
Capital goods                                                     139                  o
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                                                               93 .  .  ..
Imnort nrinc index /1995=100)                                                                      * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (U995= 100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
tVSS mi//ionsl                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                                       109       100      20
Imports of goods and services                                       597       562      1
Resource balance                                                   -488      -462           _    _
Net income                                                            4         3           93   94  -vF 
Net current transfers                                               246       240      -10
Current account balance                                            -230      -219      -20xoI
Financing items (net)                                                73       227      -30
Changes in net reserves                                             165         -8    .40
Memo:
ResPrves includinn nold (USS millions)                              145       122
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USSI                                     7.4       8.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                142       225
IBRD                                                                0         0                         G: 5
IDA                                                                37        56
Total debt service                                                    4         3
IBRD                                                                0         0
IDA                                                                 0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                         E: 100
Official grants                                                    74
Official creditors                                                 65        69
Private creditors                                                   0         0
Foreign direct investment                                           0                                _0
Portfolio equity                                                    0                                           D. 64
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        53         0      A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                       6        16      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0      r - ,.c                      r -
Netflows                                                            6        16
Interest payments                                                   0         0
Net transfers                                                       6        16
Development Economics                                                                                                     8/21/00
- 83 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
HIV/AIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Saharan Africa: 28
Background                                                                                                    W   "
Eritrea's relatively low prevalence rate could prove deceptive as the compound
effect of HlV`/AIDS is dramatic. For example, a 3 percent HIV prevalence rate
equates to a 20 percent lifetime risk. A prevalence rate of 20 percent leads to a 50
percent lifetime risk.
'There is limnited data on HIV prevalence among sex workers in Eritrea. In 1988, 2
percent of sex workers in Asmara tested positive; the prevalence rate increased to 6
percent in 1989. In 1988, 3 percent of sex workers tested in Assab, Keren, and
Massawa were HIV-positive, with a range of ] to 32 percent in Assab. In 1994, 25
percent of sex workers tested in a non-specified geographic area were HIV-positive.
There is no information on HIV prevalence rates among STI patients; only one site
in the country has recorded HIV prevalence levels among pregnant women (rural,
1994).
Information on knowledge and behavior related to HIIV/AIDS is essential in
identifying populations at risk of infection and is critical in assessing changes over
time as a result of prevention efforts. In 1995, only 2.6 percent of women ages
20-29, who are most likely to get pregnant, reported ever using a condom.
Currently, there is little information available on men and condom use.
Country Response/Obstacles                                                             HIV Prevalence among Sex Worke rs,
1 30      Rural (percent)
Decades of war in Eritrea have caused social and economic destruction, thereby    25
facilitating the spread of HIV/AIDS and impeding progress to halt the epidemic.   20
Upon achieving independence, Eritrea createct a National AIDS Control Program
within the Communicable Disease Control Division of the Ministry of Health.    l/
As of 1996, there was no formal surveillance program, laboratory testing was  |-
unreliable, and diagnosis was inadequate. Rapid urbanization and increased        5
mobility after the war have greatly increased the risks as-sociated with HIV/AIDS.    | _o_|_l_                     l
The Government has established a registry for commercial sex workers and provides        1i9s            194
ser-vices for screening, counseling, condom distribution, and treatment of STIs.
Data Limitations                                                                          AIDS Cases Reported 1b Age,
The 2.87 adult HIV/AIDS prevalence rate cited by UNAIDS (above) is likely to be       Cumulative Cases through 1997
an underestimate of the actual situation. Given the paucity of available surveillance    1600
data, this statistic was developed by applying the 1994 prevalence rate from the    14200
WHO Global Programme on AIDS to the country's 1999 adult population.             1000
8iG
60 0
4 00
2 00
0                    A
Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age
0-4 5-14 15- 20  30- 40- S0- 60.
19 29  39 49  59
Male        Female
- 84 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31065
EOO9'O j   : \      .         .SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                        1
- gKacer=,.:                                                                                                                     ,0E R I T E                                     REA
S U P   A  N .  11,e*QtF......  ..
/                        -     ~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
N i     \~ 'olool.                                                                                                                I,, "0 0   0   i   ;    | |       ---   SECONDARY ROADS
17>                 .          SolO                        RT.4  FfL ,,_1 _   N                                                  l,  0  0 |: 0  Q    -    -                                  17'; -  _  RAILROADS
-17  ~ ~~~~~~~'~RD~                                                  ~RIVERS
'4''g      I                                                                                                                                                       I <  ;   K  *   :;    0   ;004  d  0   0    _ . _ NTERMITTENT  STREAMS
1                                                                                                                                       o    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNS
~~''1       N~~~AC4                                                              -(J                                                                                                    REGION CAPITALS
f                        *    ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
1N,S , EB A*                                                                                                                                                                                    REGION BOUNDARIES
K                                                          0                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESS
)16/                                                                                                           01                                                                           ' :
GoIolopO~~~~~~~                               ~ ~ ~ ~~ RooomB EJA                                                                                                   Thl ro o- prodrod_;by ET   IOSoo P ol~ I LOOT A   --7
/                   Gooobo      '   91i~~~ ~~~~~~~~b                                                                                                                                               f oErol-id' .  1onhoi~oI6t.'ooioy ww"oyo'o-yo-d--loor,
*(  KO0~~~~~=~~~441  ~~~~  oher   oM~~~~~~~             .'~MASi-WAP'                                               -
/                                               E  T  H   I  O    P  I A                                                      \                     aXusKi'lEi  ;il:              50              -r                                 /                    50_R n0  5  I0  1,5
T32 \  r. K.,'       Ad        10            or Y        M.I o_.         R SOMA0                                                                                                                                                             0
T~~~ K~~~ooolo/~~~~~~~    -    06    Ad lEo,,  TooIo1i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  N 01  '~~~~~~~~                                                                                KILOMETERS~~ILMEER
~~~~~~~~~~~~<T,oooo ~ ~ ~ ~     ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~         ebl m"od_o_do Gog  '~STf  T,I,                            KENY            |                         OC
-'                                  .R8ogo 19-                t                         41¢                                /t   DJIBOUTI                  i       :     35\'s            40°            453                 50°
/                   . 0                                ,   _            __  ,       _                                                                                 a             t >Ur-    I       s  ERITREA
/                                                                                                                   176060'SOIEO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wZlv, 66   SUDAN  j'
-1A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,                                                                                                                                                  *JBOUT]
N,SOUTHER                                                           I I,d  .
f                                                                                         6AIoohO   '<,*                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA
E  T  H   I  0    P  I A                                                                                                        -0~50                                                                    .5'
AS~~AR   ~~         '                      -, ~SOMALIA
-13-
Rol~~~'    UGANDA;                                      CCINDAN\
-'     Lake                                                      0
Y ictorio             I
37'                         8'901'DIOUTI                                                                                                                                        '                   ,40'                          A5'              50'
AUGUST 2000



