Page  1
August 1, 2001
H.E. Berhane Abrehe
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Asmara, Eritrea
Re:
Danish Grant for the HAMSET Diseases Control Project
Grant No. TF 028941
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Kingdom of 
Denmark, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six million seven hundred 
sixty-two thousand US Dollars (US$6,762,000) (the Grant) to the State of Eritrea (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Oey Astra Meesook
Country Director for Eritrea
Africa Region
AGREED:
STATE OF ERITREA
By /s/ 
Date:
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the carrying out of the HAMSET 
Diseases Control Project, which has as main objectives: (a) increasing knowledge and 
awareness of HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs and Tuberculosis (HAMSET) among the population of 
the Recipient’s territory; and (b) providing the said population with increased access 
to prevention measures and basic early treatment (the Project). The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(i)
promoting healthy lifestyles through the education system, 
including: (A) the strengthening of the central and regional 
skills in school health programming; (B) promoting healthy 
practices and behavioral change in students and teachers; (C) the 
establishing of school-based support and health services; and (D) 
Page  2
promoting healthy practices and behavioral change in adults; and
(ii)
enhancing access to preventive, diagnostic, and treatment care for 
conscripts, including: (A) promoting healthy behavioral changes in 
conscripts through multiple channels of communication; (B) 
strengthening health care services available (including HCT or 
voluntary counseling and testing); (C) promoting increased use of 
condoms and insecticide treated materials; and (D) establishing of 
a program to address HAMSET concerns in the context of 
demobilization.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the IDA to visit 
the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation 
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to 
IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Credit
   % of
   Allocated (Expressed in Expenditures
Category
U.S.Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants’ Services:
100%
      (a) locally recruited
267,000
      (b) internationally
479,000
            recruited
(2) Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
Page  3
      (a) equipment
392,000
      (b) materials
    1,245,000
      (c) vehicles
567,000
(3) Works
    1,524,000
80%
(4) Other items:
      (a) Training
414,000
100%
      (b) Workshops
968,000
100%
      (c) School health clubs
100,000
100%
      (d) Operating Costs
806,000
80%
TOTAL
    6,762,000
2.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office rent, 
office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances and travel 
and accommodation but excluding salaries.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank , except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$300,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 
2001; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after March 31, 2006 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by  IDA. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
Page  4
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for: (i) civil works under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than US$100,000 
equivalent each; (iii) consulting services under contracts costing less than: (A) 
US$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) US$50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iv) all Operating Costs and training, all under such 
terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in its Central 
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
Page  5
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has 
made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the 
Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating 
Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services of consultants to provide technical assistance or training may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services to be provided at community level estimated to cost less than 
US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Page  6
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more; and (ii) each of the first two contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than US$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience; and (ii) the employment of all other consultants (including consulting 
firms), the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II:
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Page  7
Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
A limited number of vehicles and office and school equipment, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed US$250,000 equivalent, may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services of the United Nations (IAPSO) under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or less per contract shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$100,000 or more and each of the first two contracts for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$100,000 but more than US$30,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$30,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
IDA a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
Page  8
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to IDA a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible 
item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
Page  9
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
