Page  1
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
In pursuance of the Framework Agreement between the GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF 
DENMARK (Denmark) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) (collectively, the Bank) dated 
October 6, 1998 (the Agreement), I am pleased to inform you of the intention of 
Denmark to make available a contribution (Contribution) of six million nine hundred 
thousand US Dollars (US$6,900,000), to be administered by the Bank for the 
implementation of the HAMSET Diseases Control Project in Eritrea (Trust Fund No. 
028941). The terms of the Agreement shall apply to the Contribution. The Bank shall 
administer the Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, except 
as otherwise provided herein.
The Contribution is for a Recipient-Executed Technical Assistance Grant and 
shall be used exclusively for the following purposes: (i) consultants’ services; (ii) 
equipment, materials and vehicles; (iii) civil works, including minor civil works for 
construction of toilet facilities, waste disposal units and promotion of environmental 
sanitation in schools; (iv) training, workshops, school health club funds; and (v) 
operating costs. The activities are described in the Attachment to this Agreement.
Denmark shall deposit the Contribution as follows: 
(a)
an initial deposit of US$840,000 shall be deposited into IBRD’s Cash 
Account "T" (Account No. 000125199, Routing Code 021001088, Swift Address MRMDUS33) 
which is maintained with HSBC Bank USA in New York City; and
(b)
the remaining amount of the Contribution shall be deposited into the said 
IBRD’s Cash Account in the installments set out below:
(i)
US$1,700,000 by December 31, 2002;
(ii)
US$1,820,000 by December 31, 2003;
(iii)
US$1,330,000 by December 31, 2004; and
(iv)
US$1,210,000 by December 31, 2005.
When making payment, Denmark shall instruct HSBC Bank USA to advise the IBRD’s 
Treasury Operations Department as to the amount received; that it is from Denmark for 
TF028941, HAMSET Diseases Control Project in Eritrea and, the date of the deposit. In 
addition, Denmark shall arrange to fax a copy of its deposit instruction to IBRD’s 
Trust Funds Division utilizing Fax No. (202) 477-7163.
It is expected that the funds will be fully utilized in accordance with the 
provisions of this Administration Agreement by March 31, 2006. The Bank shall only 
disburse the funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement after such date 
upon the approval of Denmark.
If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this 
Administration Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or 
if the Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the 
initiative of either party by giving the other party a three (3) months’ written 
notice to this effect. Upon the termination of this Administration Agreement, and 
unless the parties agree on another arrangement, any Danish Grant Agreement entered 
into by the Bank, as administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall also terminate at such 
time, and any funds or other property of Denmark held hereunder by the Bank shall be 
Page  2
returned to Denmark, and the Bank’s administration shall be considered terminated.
The officers responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are:
For Denmark:
For the Bank:
Ms. Nanna Hvidt
Trust Funds and Cofinancing
Head of Department for
World Bank
    East and West Africa
1818 H Street NW
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Washington DC, 20433
Asiatisk Plads 2
DK-1448 Copenhagen K
Denmark
Fax: +45 33 92 09 64
I would like to propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the 
manner indicated below, constitute an agreement between Denmark and the Bank.
Sincerely yours,
[Ambassador]
Confirmed and Agreed
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
By /s/ Oey Astra Meesook
Country Director for Eritrea
Africa Region
Date: _________________
ATTACHMENT
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
promoting healthy lifestyles through the education system, including: (i) 
the strengthening of the central and regional skills in school health programming; 
(ii) promoting healthy practices and behavioral change in students and teachers; (iii) 
the establishing of school-based support and health services; and (iv) promoting 
healthy practices and behavioral change in adults; and
(b)
enhancing access to preventive, diagnostic, and treatment care for 
conscripts, including: (i) promoting healthy behavioral changes in conscripts through 
multiple channels of communication; (ii) strengthening health care services available 
(including HCT or voluntary counseling and testing); (iii) promoting increased use of 
condoms and insecticide treated materials; and (iv) establishing of a program to 
address HAMSET concerns in the context of demobilization.
Page  3
