Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3444-ER
Development Credit Agreement
(HAMSET Diseases Control Project)
between
STATE OF ERITREA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3444-ER
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2000 between STATE OF ERITREA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS:  (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 19, 2000 from 
the Borrower: (i) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
carry out a program (hereinafter called the Program) for the prevention and early 
treatment of HIV/AIDS, Malaria, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Tuberculosis; (ii) 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and (iii) 
requesting assistance from the Association during the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on September 12, 
2000 the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region estimated in the amount 
of SDR 378.4 million over the next three years;
(C)
this Project is part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa 
Region; and
(D)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth  and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means the Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a community which has met the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and which, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive, a Grant 
for the carrying out of a Subproject;
(c)
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Grant" means a grant to be made to finance a Subproject or other 
community development activity pursuant to Part D of the Project;
(e)
"HAMSET" means the following diseases, namely, HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STD (as 
hereinafter defined) and Tuberculosis;
(f)
"HIV/AIDS/TB Committee" means the HIV/AIDS/TB Committee referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
"HIV" means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(i)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United Nations 
Development Programme;
(j)
"Initial Deposit" means the initial amount to be paid into the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (ii) of this Account;
(k)
"Manual of Financial Procedures" means the manual of procedures referred 
to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement which specifies the accounting and auditing 
standards for the Project;
(l)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(m)
"Nakfa" means currency of the Borrower;
(n)
"PMU" means the Project Monitoring Unit referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(p)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter of agreement signed 
on behalf of the Association on April 3, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 
20, 2000;
(s)
"Project Year" means the 12 month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 month period following 
thereafter;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
"STD" means a Sexually Transmitted Disease;
(v)
"Subproject" means a community subproject or activity (including a 
community assessment or proposal preparation activity) to be carried out under Part D 
of the Project which having met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement is eligible 
for financing, on a grant basis, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(w)
"UNAIDS" means the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS; and
(x)
"Zoba" means a Regional administration of the Borrower, as defined under 
the Borrower’s Proclamation [No. 26 of 1992 of the laws of the Borrower.]
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
any Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
Page  4
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, health and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
Page  5
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) establish and thereafter maintain in 
Nakfa, until completion of the Project, a Project Account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association into which the Borrower shall 
deposit its counterpart contributions to Project costs; (ii) pay into the Project 
Account an initial amount (the Initial Deposit) equivalent to $350,000; and (iii) 
thereafter during each following quarter deposit into the Project Account the amounts 
required to cover the said contributions for each such quarter, as determined by the 
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
Page  6
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than [September 30, 2002], or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit paid into the 
Project Account;
(b)
The Borrower has furnished to the Association a Manual of Financial 
Procedures in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has installed an accounting and financial management system, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible for 
finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 895
Asmara
Eritrea
Telex:
583492421150
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
STATE OR ERITREA
By /s/ Semere Russom
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Oey Astra Meesook
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   2,120,000
80%
(2)
Goods:
   4,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(3)
Drugs Condoms,
  11,800,000
100% of foreign
and Bed-Nets 
expenditures and 90%
of local furnitures
(4)
Consultants’ services,
   7,530,000
100%
studies, training
and workshops
(5)
Grants
   4,550,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(6)
PMU Operating Costs
     480,000
80%
(7)
Refunding of
     320,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     400,000
TOTAL
  31,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office rent, 
office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances and travel 
and accommodation but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures under Category (4) unless: (i) the Borrower has furnished to 
the Association guidelines satisfactory to the Association for the administration of 
the Grants; and (ii) the Beneficiary concerned has entered into a Grant Agreement with 
the Borrower and the Grant in question has been made in accordance with the 
procedures, guidelines and other provisions set out or referred to in the Project 
Implementation Manual and this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) civil works under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting services under contracts costing less than: 
(A) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iv) all Operating Costs and training.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) increasing 
knowledge and awareness of HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs and Tuberculosis (HAMSET) among the 
population of the Borrower’s territory; and (b) providing the said population with 
increased access to prevention measures and basic early treatment, through: (i) 
increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the Borrower’s policies and 
interventions aimed at the reduction of the spread of HAMSET diseases; (ii) enabling 
communities, households and individuals to: (A) learn more about the practices that 
facilitate or minimize the spread of HAMSET diseases, and (B) have access to 
affordable preventive measures and early treatment services; (iii) improving the 
quality of basic health care by providing drugs and medical materials; (iv) reducing 
environmental impact of vector control activities; and (v) identifying affordable 
community-managed home-based care for AIDS patients.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Collection of information on HAMSET
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity in collecting and analyzing information on 
HAMSET, and the formulation of policy responses on HAMSET including:
(a)
improving the Borrower’s HAMSET surveillance techniques through the 
renovation of health facilities to become sentinel sites for HAMSET surveillance;
(b)
establishing an epidemic forecasting and preparedness system through the:
(i)
development of a national strategy and associated guidance for 
public health personnel at the central, Zoba and sub-Zoba levels;
(ii)
formulating a skills development curriculum and training of 
trainers;
(iii)
printing and dissemination of guidelines; and 
(iv)
acquisition of drugs and reagents.
(c)
improving the Borrower’s capacity to carry out operational research for 
identifying changes in HAMSET through the establishment of research priorities, 
training of research staff in research methodology, and the construction of 
entomological laboratories;
(d)
introduction of methods to link the results of research and monitoring 
and evaluation to policy formulation, annual work planning and budgeting through the 
provision of technical advisory services, carrying out of workshops. Training and 
acquisition of computers; and
(e)
strengthening the management of communicable diseases within MOH through 
training of managers, study tours and the acquisition of computers and equipment.
Part B:
Multisectoral Control of HAMSET Transmission
1.
Strengthening the capacity of MOH to coordinate the communication activities of 
agencies implementing the Project at the Zoba and sub-Zoba levels through the 
provision of technical advisory services in communication, training of social change 
agents and community leaders in communication techniques.
2.
Improving educational outcomes to promote good health and prevention of the 
spread of HAMSET including:
(a)
strengthening skills in school health programming;
(b)
promoting, in students and teachers, healthy practices and behavior 
change;
(c)
establishing school-based support and health services: and 
(d)
promoting healthy practices and behavior changes in adults, all through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training, vehicles and other equipment, 
school materials and other supplies, and the construction of sanitation and basic 
Page  10
garbage disposal facilities.
3.
Enhancing access to preventive, diagnostic and treatment services for conscripts 
including:
(a)
promoting healthy behaviors through multiple channels of communication;
(b)
strengthening health care services in the army;
(c)
promoting the increased use of condoms and insecticide-treated materials; 
and 
(d)
establishing a program to address HAMSET issues in the context of 
demobilization, all through the acquisition of drugs, condoms, vehicles, education 
materials, and training.
4.
Making vector control more environmentally sound and cost-effective through: (i) 
the stratification of vector control activities; (ii) the introduction, on a pilot 
basis, of (A) alternative community-based vector control activities, and (B) the use 
of insecticides with the same efficacy but lower toxicity and environmental impact 
than DDT; and (iii) the carrying out of efficacy and cost-effectiveness studies into 
vector control activities.
Part C:
Improving HAMSET Health Care and Counseling Services
1.
Improving blood safety at the Zoba level through: (i) the establishment of blood 
banks for Zoba hospitals; (ii) the rehabilitation of existing laboratories to house a 
small blood bank unit, including the acquisition of equipment for the said blood bank 
unit; (iii) the provision of in service and on the job training for staff on blood 
safety and transfusion techniques; and (iv) the acquisition of two vehicles for 
Project supervision.
2.
Improving the skills of health workers on diagnosis, treatment and counseling 
techniques through: (i) integrated in service and on the job-training on HAMSET 
diseases prevention and detection; (ii) case management; (iii) syndromic and 
laboratory diagnosis of STDs; (iv) counseling on prevention and treatment of HAMSET 
diseases and anemia; and (v) improving the language abilities of health staff 
including, in particular, local language abilities of staff carrying out pre and post 
HIV-testing counseling.
3.
Improving availability in health facilities of medical materials and drugs 
required to diagnose and treat HAMSET diseases through: (i) the purchase and 
distribution of basic essential drugs and diagnostic materials to treat AIDS 
opportunistic infections, STDs, Tuberculosis, and Malaria; including condoms, and 
insecticide-treated mosquito nets and insecticides; (ii) the carrying out of surveys 
to assess the availability of drugs and medical materials; (iii) the provision of 
in-service and on-the job resource management training for MOH staff; and (iv) the 
provision of transport facilities for drugs, medical materials and Project 
supervision.
Part D:
Community-Managed HAMSET Response
The carrying out of a community-based program to minimize the transmission and 
impact of HAMSET diseases, including: (1) strengthening community services provided by 
MOLHW by establishing a community service to provide counseling and establishing 
support groups for AIDS affected people, and (2) testing the capacities of communities 
to use community structures and socio-cultural systems to identify, select and manage 
responses to HAMSET diseases, all through: (a) the establishment of a fund to be 
managed by the Zoba administration for the financing, on a grant basis, of the 
identification, assessment, selection, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects to 
control HAMSET diseases including the preparation of proposals for the mitigation of 
the impact of said diseases; (b) training of community authorities and leaders on 
health impact assessment and rationale and methodology; and (c) the provision of 
short-term technical advisory services.
Part E:
Project Management and Evaluation
Strengthening of Project management and evaluation capacity, including: (i) the 
establishment of a sub-unit within PMU to be responsible for the procurement of 
Project items and financial management under the Project; (ii) the provision of staff 
training; (iii) the conduct of workshops; (iv) the development of appropriate 
management and information systems to facilitate monitoring of Project performance; 
Page  11
(v) the acquisition of office equipment and materials; and (vi) the provision of 
short-term technical advisory services for the carrying out of selected Project 
activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than furniture) estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, and furniture, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount (for both goods and furniture) not 
to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
A small number of vehicles and office equipment may be procured from IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  12
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works, including rehabilitation works, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more and each of the first two contracts for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 but more than $30,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $30,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
estimated to cost more than: $100,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
Page  13
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training and capacity building may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assignments to support health impact assessment and Subprojects and 
communications campaigns in rural areas estimated to cost less than $100,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) each of the first two contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Implementation Manual and Project Executing Agencies
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting 
out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria (including the 
Page  14
eligibility criteria for Grants and Subprojects) required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
(c)
The Borrower’s Ministry of Health shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the Project.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in a form and with 
functions, membership and resources satisfactory to the Association, a Steering 
Committee to be responsible for the making of policy decisions on Project activities 
and annual budgets.
(b)
The membership of Steering Committee shall comprise: (i) the Minister of 
Health, as Chairman, (ii) representatives of the Ministries of local Government, 
Education, Labor and Social Welfare, and the six Zoba Governors. The Director General 
of Health Services shall be the Secretary to the Steering Committee.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, continue to maintain 
in MOH in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association a PMU to be responsible for the overall monitoring of Project activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) establish in PMU a sub-unit, satisfactory to the 
Association, to assist PMU in the carrying out of the financial management, 
accounting, and disbursement functions required under the Project, including the 
management of the Special Account, the processing of contracts and payments for goods, 
works and services; and (ii) establish in each Zoba a Zoba Management Unit under the 
Zoba Medical Officer which shall be responsible for Project activities at the Zoba 
level.
(c)
The Steering Committee shall work closely with PMU in the planning of 
Project activities, the provision of technical advice related to Project execution, 
supervision and monitoring of Project activities.
4.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in a form and with 
functions, membership and resources satisfactory to the Association a National HAMSET 
Technical Committee. The said Committee shall provide technical support to all 
agencies implementing the Project.  The Committee shall report to the Steering 
Committee on all its activities.
Subprojects and Costs
5.
(a)
To be eligible for a Grant, a Beneficiary must furnish a Subproject 
proposal to MOH that fully satisfies the criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual for Grant financing of Subprojects.
(b)
In the evaluation of each Subproject proposal, consideration shall be 
given to the Beneficiary’s capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the Subproject 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, health, technical and 
managerial standards.
6.
The Borrower shall make appropriate amounts of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (4) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement available, on a grant basis, 
to a Beneficiary under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association. The Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Association and the Borrower, including to the extent that it shall 
be appropriate the right to:
(a)
(i) carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, health, technical and managerial 
standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records for the Subproject concerned;
(b)
require that all goods, works and services required for a Subproject 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
require that such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
Page  15
carrying out of the Subproject; 
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, any goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(e)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Grant Agreement.
7.
Each Beneficiary shall contribute at least 20% of the total cost of a Subproject 
for which it has received a Grant.
Miscellaneous 
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the 
Association The indicators will be specified in a Supplemental Letter., the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 each year a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association by April 30 and October 31 or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter; and
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Association not later than March of every 
year, beginning on March 2001, an annual progress review of the implementation of the 
Project, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
9.
No later than thirty months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall carry 
out, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project (the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover among other 
things:
(i)
an assessment of: (A) work programs prepared as of the date of the 
Midterm Review and the progress made in carrying out the said 
programs, (B) training provided under the Project, (C) procurement 
under the Project, (D) the extent to which actions described in 
the indicators set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been 
carried out, and (E) plans made or proposed for updating said 
indicators; and
(ii)
a review of the state of maintenance of any works carried out 
under the Project.
10.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to: (a) implement the pesticide 
management plan satisfactory to the Association: (b) procure only chemicals for the 
control of malaria epidemics which have been approved by the Association; and (c) 
furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 2002, a program satisfactory 
to the Association, for substituting DDT residual house-spraying by chemicals and 
Page  16
techniques which are safer to the environment and human health.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement set forth in said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  17
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
