Report No. PIC4375
Project Name                   Chad-Household Energy Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Energy
Project ID                     TDPA532
Borrower                       Republic of Chad
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Mines, Energy and Petroleum
(MMEP)
Mr. Abdel-Hamid Mahamat Ali; Deputy
Director of
Petroleum and New and Renewable Energy
Tel:   (235) 51 34 37
fax:   (235) 51 25 65
Ministry of Agriculture and Environment
(MAE)
Mahamat Ali Hassan, Director General
Date this PID Prepared         January 1996
Projected appraisal date       March 1996
Projected Board Date           January 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Country Background.   Chad, which has a population of 6.5 million,
is one of the poorest (US$190 GNP per capita) and least developed
countries in the world, ranking 150th out of the 160 countries on UNDP's
1992 Human Development Index.    Brief periods of growth have been
interrupted by periods of steep decline caused by political instability
and frequent conflicts. Currently in Chad, agriculture generates close
to 42t of GDP and provides a livelihood for over 80t of the population;
livestock and cotton provide the main source of cash income for the
rural population and are the main source of exports.
2.   Energy Background.   Chad is relatively well endowed with energy
resources such as oil, biomass and solar energy. Modern energy
consumption, however, is extremely low (0.015 tons of oil equivalent per
capita in 1993) and is mainly limited to petroleum fuels for
transportation and some electricity supply in urban areas. Chad's main
source of energy is wood which accounts for 90t of final energy
consumption as well as 98t of household energy consumption. Moreover,
little change is expected any time soon: electrification and petroleum
fuels will likely remain beyond the reach of the majority of the
population for some time to come, given Chad's large territory, low
population density, and low income levels.
3.   Issues and Constraints in the Household Energy Sector.    Although on
an aggregate level wood resources are sufficient to sustainably satisfy
Chad's energy demand, concentrated demand around urban centers



(particularly N'Djamena) is leading to localized desertification and a
decline in soil fertility. Exacerbating this phenomenon are not only
the successive droughts Chad has suffered, but also the recent trend
among urban households of switching from firewood to charcoal, a less
efficient fuel in terms of equivalent wood use.
4.   Over-cutting of wood has been a growing problem. At the moment
there is no effective control over the production and exploitation of
wood. A tax on wood products exists but serves no regulatory purpose;
its level and collection rate are marginal, reflecting lack of capacity
and dedication. The rural population has few incentives to properly
manage wood resources, given the minimal rural revenues from wood trade.
Project Objectives
5.   The objectives of the proposed project follow closely those
outlined in the Detailed Action Plan (DAP) that was prepared by the
Government at the end of 1993, following a workshop with all major
players in the household energy field. As an operational instrument of
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chad, the project
directly supports three of the CAS' main objectives: poverty
alleviation, private sector development, and environmental protection.
Specific project objectives are to: (a) establish the sustainable
production of woodfuels in 50 rural villages in the N'Djamena catchment
area, as well as the capacity to expand it to other villages; (b)
increase monetary incomes in these 50 villages; (c) implement
institutional and regulatory reforms in the household energy subsector
by transferring natural resource management to villages and using taxes
on woodfuels to enhance such management; and (d) improve the efficiency
of household energy use through the design and distribution of improved
appliances.
Project description
6.   The proposed project will initially focus on the N'Djamena area,
while preparing for the inclusion of other urban areas at a later stage.
To achieve the above objectives and help specify and implement the
operational details of the Government's strategy, the project consists
of three complementary components: (a) on the supply side, simple long-
term village land-use and wood exploitation plans will be prepared for
the N'Djamena woodfuel catchment area; these plans are based on an
assessment of wood resources, and economic activities in the
surroundings of the villages, focusing on a more rational and
participatory approach to management of wood resources. Efficient
charcoal conversion techniques will also be promoted in those areas
where charcoal is produced (51 percent of project costs); (b) monitor
and control of wood products flows (17 percent of project costs); (c)
on the demand side, improvement of the efficiency of household fuel use
(such as improved firewood, charcoal, kerosene, and LPG cooking stoves)
through intermediary of the private sector, with a view to generate
savings and increase living conditions (20 percent of project costs).
7.   Capacity building and sensibilization through training, technical
assistance and education/information and promotional actions, for both
public and private actors, as well as systematic client consultation
will be an essential part of the project. Local organizations and NGOs
- 2-



will be used (after training by the project) to provide most of this
technical assistance. Technical assistance if not existing locally,
will essentially be of a short term, decreasing nature and preferably of
regional origin.
Project Financing
8.   The total project cost is estimated at US$ 5.8 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of about US$ 2.5 million (44 percent).
This would be an IDA financed project. The project will mainly finance
specialist services (US$ 1.68 million), equipment (US$ 1.12 million),
operational costs (US$ 1.29 million), and training (US$ 0.61 million).
The remainder (US$ 0.94 million) is to reimburse the PPF advance, and
to establish the control points in N'Djamena.
Project Implementation
9.   The project will mainly be implemented by local villages (supply
side), local private sector (demand side), Government (policy actions),
and NGOs/private firms. The overall responsibility for project
coordination and supervision would rest with the Ministry of Agriculture
and Environment (supply side) and the Ministry of Mines, Energy and
Petroleum (demand side). The basic principle underpinning this project
is that the Government establishes the enabling policy environment; but
economic and commercial decisions are left to private economic actors.
Increasing public awareness and some promotional activities by the
Government will be required to acquaint the public with the objectives
of, and opportunities created by the project. The project is expected
to be implemented over a four-year period.
Project Sustainability
10. Three factors will determine the success of the project: (a) the
ability of villagers to implement sustainable forest resource
management; (b) establishment of a reasonably efficient system to verify
tax compliance; and (c) a change in the role of the 'Direction des
Forhts et de la Protection de l'Environnement' from policeman to
technical advisor. Rural consultations clearly indicate that villagers
are ready to assume responsibilities for, and reap benefits from, local
management of resources. Tax collection at the source, with a strong
self-policing effect, will create additional revenue in participating
villages.
Lessons learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
11. This is the first time IDA is involved in household energy in Chad.
A similar IDA-supported household energy project in Niger has increased
control over fuelwood flows into Niamey from 10t to 60w, raising
Government revenues to over half a billion CFAF per year (about US$ 1
million), and led to the voluntary establishment of over 50 rural
fuelwood markets with a managed natural forest resource base of some
160,000 ha. On the demand side, wood and kerosene stoves are being made
and sold via existing commercial channels. The response of the local
population to the devolution of control over forest resources has been
extremely positive, and demand to participate in the project outstrips
-3 -



the project team's capacity at this time. In Chad, the experience with
household energy has been encouraging, as witnessed by the DAP and new
legislation that allows considerable improvements to take place in the
field. The project will incorporate the lessons of the Niger and other
natural resource management systems (such as in Burkina Faso and Mali),
as well as from the Bank-financed Review of Policies in the Traditional
Energy Sector (RPTES) study.
Poverty Category
12. Not applicable. The project is designed to improve living
conditions of rural and poor households.
Environmental Aspects
13. This is a Category C project that will reduce soil degradation,
bush fires and deforestation in zones where the project is active. This
will be done by transferring the responsibility for maintaining natural
resources to the villagers, through better management and carbonization
techniques. Increased use of improved wood and charcoal stoves, as well
as LPG and kerosene stoves, will result in a reduction of indoor
environmental pollution and better working conditions for women and
children, as well as reduced C02 emissions.
Program Objectives Categories
14. The project focuses on four important Bank Group objectives: (a)
promotion of environmental sustainability; (b) poverty alleviation; (c)
private sector development; and (d) participation and capacity building,
which are part of an integrated approach in this project to stimulate
sector efficiency.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending October 18, 1996.
- 4 -



