Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3082 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Household Energy Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3082 CD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing thereof;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Agence pour l’Energie Domestique et 
l’Environnement (AEDE) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to AEDE the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and AEDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AEDE” means the Agence pour l’Energie Domestique et l’Environnement, a 
non-profit association established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations pursuant to its statutes dated February 25, 1998 (the Statutes) as amended 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower’s authorization to 
operate No. 324 dated April 23, 1996 (the Authorization), and the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 470/PR/PM/97 dated October 24, 1997 (the Decree);
(b)
“CDS” means the Comité de Suivi, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 538/PR/MMEPH/96 dated October 10, 1996, which will be responsible for 
general supervision of the carrying out of the Project;
(c)
“Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and AEDE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes the Implementation Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) and all other annexes, schedules and attachments to the Convention;
(d)
“FCFA” means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by AEDE on February 16, 
1998, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, and setting out, inter 
alia, criteria, procedures and guidelines for implementing the Project, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Implementation Manual;
(f)
“MEE” means the Ministère de l’Environnement et de l’Eau, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for environment and water supply;
(g)
“MMEP” means the Ministère des Mines, de l’Energie et du Pétrole, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for mining, energy and petroleum;
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and AEDE 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 30, 1994, and June 16, 1994, between the Borrower and the Association; 
(j)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2008,  and ending April 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2018, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  4
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. AEDE is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause AEDE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of AEDE therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AEDE to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to AEDE on a 
non-reimbursable basis under an agreement (hereinafter referred as the Convention) to 
be entered into between the Borrower and AEDE, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association; including, but without being limited to, the 
provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall assist AEDE in the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take steps, or cause AEDE to take 
steps, to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AEDE 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AEDE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that AEDE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the Statutes, the Authorization or the Decree, governing the operations 
of AEDE, shall have been amended, suspended, or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of AEDE to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and
Page  6
(d)
Decree No. 107/MTE/DG/97 dated March 14, 1997, implementing Law No. 
36/PR/94 dated December 3, 1994, regarding the organization of wood trade and 
transport in major urban areas, and the tax regime relating thereto, or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Statutes have been modified to realign the responsibilities of the 
organs of AEDE in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AEDE;
(c)
AEDE has appointed its Administration and Financial Director and the two 
individuals in charge of the operation of, respectively, the rural markets and the 
wood user fee scheme referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement;
(d)
AEDE has established an internal accounting and financial system 
acceptable to the Association for the implementation of the Project; and
(e)
AEDE has appointed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 
(b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AEDE 
and is legally binding upon AEDE in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and AEDE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and AEDE in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning is designated as representative 
Page  7
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère du Plan et de
l’Aménagement du Territoire
Boîte Postale 1159
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Telex:
5329 KD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Fadlassid Ali Naffa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, vehicles,
1,120,000
100% of foreign
furniture and materials
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Civil works under
   80,000
100% of foreign
Part D of the
expenditures and
Project
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
2,000,000
100%
and audits
(4)
Operating costs
  600,000
90% during the
First Project Year,
80% during the
second Project Year,
70% during the
third Project Year
and 60% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
  160,000
Amount due
Project
under Section 2.02 (c)
Preparation
of this Agreement
Advance
(6)
Unallocated
   40,000
_________
TOTAL
4,000,000
=========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means any incremental costs attributed to the 
Project, including those for bank charges on the Special Account, office supplies, 
office space, utilities, communications and costs of operating vehicles (insurance, 
maintenance, fuel and lubricants). 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, consultants’ services (firms) 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, consultants’ services 
(individuals) under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote the establishment of the 
sustainable production of woodfuel in selected villages; (ii) strengthen the capacity 
of the Borrower to extend such production elsewhere; (iii) carry out institutional 
reforms in the household energy sector; and (iv) improve efficiency in the use of 
household energy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Village-based Natural Resource Management System
Establishment of natural-resource management systems in about 100 villages in 
the N’Djaména woodfuel catchment area, including, inter alia, the strengthening of the 
capacity to design long-term village land-use and wood exploitation plans by 
non-governmental organizations, forestry agents and villagers, the establishment of a 
woodfuel master plan for the N’Djamena region on the basis of the foregoing and of 
woodfuel and charcoal markets in the N’Djamena region and development of new 
charcoaling techniques.
Part B:
Control and Regulation of Commerce in Wood
Establishment of systems and mechanisms to monitor woodfuel flows and to better 
control the cutting, transport, sale and use of woodfuel, including regulations, 
fiscal measures, education and other incentives applicable to producers, processors, 
transporters and sellers, as well as to commercial users, of woodfuel, and the 
carrying out of fiscal measures to ensure the funding of such activities.
Part C:
Household Fuel Use
Identification and testing of energy-efficient cooking stoves using various 
fuels and promotion of the production or importation, sale through commercial channels 
and use by consumers, of the most economically efficient models.
Part D:
Institutional Support and Information 
1.
Strengthening coordination and implementation capacities of AEDE and the 
Borrower’s ministries and directorates involved in the implementation of the Project, 
through the provision of training and advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment. Construction and rehabilitation of AEDE offices. 
2.
Implementation of population sensitization and training programs. 
3.
Preparation and support for a follow-up household energy project in the South 
and East of the Borrower’s territory. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Part A:
Main Provisions of the Convention
The Convention shall include, but without being limited to, provisions to the 
following effect:
(a)
the obligation of AEDE to take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and environmental practices;
(b)
the obligation of AEDE to keep the positions of Director General and 
Administration and Financial Director filled with employees with experience and 
Page  10
qualifications satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the obligation of AEDE to promptly inform the Borrower and the 
Association of any condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the 
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by AEDE of its obligations under the Convention; and
(d)
the obligation of AEDE to furnish to the Borrower, CDS and the 
Association after the end of each calendar quarter and in any case not later than 
January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31, a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, regarding the 
progress in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter.
Part B:
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) CDS shall at all times during the execution 
of the Project, carry out its mandate in compliance with Decree No. 538/PR/MMEPH/96 
dated October 10, 1996; (ii) the concerned Ministries and agencies (in particular, MEE 
and MMEP) shall collaborate with AEDE in compliance with the provisions of the 
Implementation Manual, in particular, with respect to the appointment of individuals 
whose experience, positions and performance are satisfactory to the Association, and 
who shall assist AEDE in ensuring proper implementation of the Project; and (iii) CDS 
shall, at the end of each calendar semester and in any case not later than January 31 
and July 31, furnish to the Borrower and the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, regarding 
progress in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar semester.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than the end of the First Project Year, and not later than the 
end of each Project Year thereafter, undertake, in conjunction with the Association 
and AEDE, a joint annual review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project 
and, in particular the progress achieved by the Borrower and AEDE during the current 
fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report prepared by CDS in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project;
(c)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist AEDE in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or 
assist AEDE in implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
(d)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association and AEDE, a workshop for the 
launching of the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement 
and procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the 
Project. 
3.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall carry out jointly with the Association and AEDE a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
(ii)
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report prepared by CDS describing the status of 
Page  11
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
