Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3082 CD
Project Agreement
(Household Energy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE POUR L’ENERGIE DOMESTIQUE
ET L’ENVIRONNEMENT
Dated August 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3082 CD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE POUR L’ENERGIE DOMESTIQUE ET L’ENVIRONNEMENT (AEDE):
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Chad (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that AEDE agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and AEDE, the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to AEDE on the terms and conditions set forth in said  Convention; and
WHEREAS AEDE, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AEDE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AEDE shall otherwise agree, AEDE shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AEDE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, AEDE shall assist the Borrower in carrying out its obligations 
under Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. AEDE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Convention. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AEDE shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AEDE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and the Convention, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
AEDE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AEDE of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention.
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, AEDE shall: (i) 
participate fully in the reviews referred in to Part B, paragraphs 2 (a) and 3 (a) of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall, (A) furnish to 
the Borrower and the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and 
in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress and status of the Project, and (B) following each annual review, act promptly 
and diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures 
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of 
the Project; and (ii) take all measures on its part to organize, in conjunction with 
the Association and the Borrower, the workshop referred in Part B, paragraph 2 (d) of 
Schedule 3
 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AEDE
Page  3
Section 3.01. AEDE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, forestry and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. AEDE shall at all times operate and maintain its offices, 
vehicles, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. AEDE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AEDE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) AEDE 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AEDE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AEDE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Agence pour l’Energie Domestique 
  et l’Environnement:
c/o Ministère du Plan et de
l’Aménagement du Territoire
Boîte Postale 1159
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Telex:
5329 KD
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AEDE, or by 
AEDE on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General Manager 
shall designate in writing, and AEDE shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel 
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
AGENCE POUR L’ENERGIE DOMESTIQUE
 ET L’ENVIRONNEMENT
By /s/ Fadlassid Ali Naffa
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, vehicles, furniture and 
materials shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
Page  6
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  7
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AEDE shall: (i) apply criteria, 
policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Implementation Manual; and (ii) not 
amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Implementation Manual or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
AEDE shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
3.
AEDE shall operate under the overall control of: (i) its members, and (ii) CDS.
4.
AEDE shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a General Manager, an 
Administration and Financial Director, and the two individuals in charge of the 
operation of, respectively, the rural wood markets and the wood user fee scheme, who 
shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. The General Manager shall, subject to the overall control of the AEDE 
members, be responsible for the day to day management of activities under the Project. 
The Administration and Financial Director shall be responsible for the day to day 
administration and financial activities of AEDE.
5.
AEDE shall provide the Borrower and the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, after the 
end of each calendar quarter and in any case not later than January 31, April 30, July 
31 and October 31, regarding the progress in the carrying out of the Project during 
the preceding calendar quarter.
