Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3675-LA 
GRANT NUMBER H4180-LA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Amending and Restating Original Project Agreement For the  
Poverty Reduction Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
POVERTY REDUCTION FUND 
 
Dated July 25, 2008  
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
(Amending and Restating Original Project Agreement) 
 
Agreement dated July 25, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and the POVERTY 
REDUCTION FUND (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date 
between 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
 
(“Recipient”) and the 
Association. 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the agreement dated August 19, 2002 between the 
Association and the Recipient, as amended (“Development Credit Agreement”), the 
Association agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit in an amount equivalent to 
fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,300,000) to 
assist in financing the Poverty Reduction Fund Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and by an agreement of even date between the 
Association and the Poverty Reduction Fund (“Original Project Agreement”), the 
Poverty Reduction Fund agreed to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as set forth in such agreement;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Poverty Reduction Fund Project by increasing 
the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement with a grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000); and 
 
WHEREAS
 the Project Implementing Entity, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Financing Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed 
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Association and the Project Implementing Entity 
hereby agree to amend and restate the Original Project Agreement to read as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement 
or the General Conditions. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
—
PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which 
the provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years (20) after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Executive Director. 
 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  4
3
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Address is: 
 
Poverty Reduction Fund 
 
c/o Ministry of Planning and Investment 
Luang Prabang Rd 
 
Vientiane, Lao PDR 
 
Telephone:  
Facsimile: 
 
+856 21 261 480 
+856 21 261 481 
 
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao’s People Democratic Republic, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
POVERTY REDUCTION FUND 
 
By 
/s/ Sivixay Saysanavongphet 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:  (i) maintain until completion of the 
Project, an Executive Director, whose qualifications and experience shall be 
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for its day-to-day management and 
administration, and (ii) employ and maintain qualified and experienced staff in 
adequate numbers, including: (a) a monitoring and evaluation coordinator; (b) a 
planning, operations and training coordinator; (c) a chief finance and administration 
officer; and (d) other requisite resources as shall be satisfactory to the Association; 
and shall take all measures necessary to enable said Executive Director and staff to 
undertake the overall day-to-day supervision and coordination of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain until completion of the 
Project, a provincial technical support team in each Project province or district, 
consisting of a coordinator, community institutional development advisor, financial 
management expert, a monitoring and evaluation expert, technical advisors, and 
community development facilitators, all in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Operations Manual. 
 
B. Implementation 
Obligations 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall at all times carry out its operations in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual and Finance and 
Administration Manual, as both said manuals may be amended by the Project 
Implementing Entity, from time to time with the prior approval of the Association, 
which, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall: 
 
(a) 
in the case of the Operations Manual, include: (i) Project 
implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement procedures consistent with Section 
III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement; (iii) reporting requirements; (iv) 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (v) criteria for the selection of Sub-projects; 
(vi) terms and conditions governing the Sub-grants; (vii) the Social and 
Environmental Guidelines; and (viii) guidelines for training and capacity building; 
and 
 
(b) 
in the case of the Finance and Administration Manual, include 
provisions that set forth the day-to-day finance and administrative procedures of the 
Project Implementing Entity, including its accounting, financial and auditing 
procedures. 
Page  6
5
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall not, without the prior written approval 
of the Association amend, waive, cancel, or abrogate any of the provisions of either 
the Operations Manual or the Finance and Administration Manual, including the 
formula used to calculate the Project Implementing Entity annual district budgetary 
ceilings, without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, by April 30 in each year, 
commencing April 30, 2009, furnish to the Association for approval, the annual list 
of districts selected for purposes of Part A of the Project. 
 
6. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall furnish the following assessments, 
acceptable to the Association: 
 
(a)  by October 31, 2009, an assessment of participatory approaches at the 
community level; 
 
(b)  by February 28, 2010, a technical assessment of infrastructure quality; 
and 
 
(c)  by November 30, 2010, an assessment of beneficiary satisfaction and 
utilization of the implemented Sub-projects and an assessment of 
capacity building of local institutions. 
 
7. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall not enter into any cooperative or other 
arrangement involving the use of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant, or 
pertaining thereto, with other ministries and agencies of the Recipient, or any 
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies without the prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
8. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that:  
 
(a) 
each Sub-project shall, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Social and Environmental Guidelines, include an analysis of any potential land 
acquisition or adverse environmental effects, as the case may be, arising from the 
implementation of said Sub-project, regardless of the source of Sub-project 
financing; 
 
(b) 
each Sub-project shall be carried out in a manner acceptable to the 
Association and monitored on a regular basis by the Project Implementing Entity, all 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Social and Environmental 
Guidelines;  
 
(c) 
each Sub-project shall be carried out in its entirety on public land, 
and that at all times the ownership of the goods, works and services under each Sub-
project shall remain the public domain or otherwise revert to the Recipient; and 
Page  7
6
(d) 
each Sub-project shall not involve any compulsory acquisition of 
land, forcible eviction or involuntary resettlement of persons, and if land acquisition 
should be required, it shall be undertaken exclusively on the basis of voluntary land 
donations, and in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the 
Social and Environmental Guidelines. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the Association.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
(1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not later forty 
five days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation 
and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project 
Report.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph A.1 of this Section II, the Project 
Implementing Entity Recipient, shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, and, no later than March 15, 2009, 
furnish to the Recipient for further forwarding to the Association, 
annual reports integrating results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed under the Project including those performed under 
paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, 
providing for a Procurement Plan for the next period, and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than 
four (4) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report 
referred to in Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions all such information 
as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request for the purposes 
of such Section.  
Page  8
7
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management 
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner 
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project 
Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Recipient not later than 
thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association for incorporation and forwarding by the 
Recipient to the Association as part of the overall interim unaudited financial 
reports. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred 
to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period 
of one (1) fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited 
financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
