Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3675-LA 
GRANT NUMBER H4180-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement and Providing Additional 
Financing For the Poverty Reduction Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 25, 2008 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) 
Agreement dated July 25, 2008, entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”). 
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated August 19, 2002, between the 
Association and the Recipient, as amended (“Development Credit Agreement”), the 
Association agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit in an amount equivalent to 
fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,300,000) to 
assist in financing the Poverty Reduction Fund Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Poverty Reduction Fund Project by increasing the 
amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement with a grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing 
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit and a grant (collectively, 
“Financing”) in the following amounts to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”): 
Page  3
2
(a) 
an Original Credit in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,300,000) 
(
“Credit”); and 
(b) 
an Additional Grant in various currencies equivalent to nine million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000)
 
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the amended and restated Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Project Implementing Entity; 
 
(b) 
the Fund Grant Agreement has been executed between the Recipient and 
the Project Implementing Entity
 
and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
a revised Operations Manual and a revised Finance and Administration  
Manual, acceptable to the Association, have been duly adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
23 Singha Road 
 Nongbone 
Village 
 Saysettha 
District 
 Vientiane 
 Lao 
PDR 
 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
Page  5
4
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao’s People Democratic Republic, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ 
Viengthong 
Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its on-going efforts to 
alleviate poverty throughout its territory by, inter alia: (a) financing community 
infrastructure activities, and other community public capital investments endeavors and 
training activities at the village level; (b) building local capacity at the village level in 
poor 
districts 
to 
manage 
public 
investment 
planning 
and 
implementation; 
and                 
(c) strengthening the capacity of local institutions to support participatory decision-
making at the village, Kum Banh, and district levels. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Village Sub-project Grants
Carrying out of Sub-projects through the provision of Sub-grants made available 
by the Poverty Reduction Fund out of the proceeds of the Grant to a village or 
group of villages to finance the carrying out of the corresponding Sub-project in 
accordance with the provisions of the relevant Sub-grant Agreement. 
 
Part B
:
Capacity Building for Communities and Local Institutions
(a) 
Strengthening of Beneficiary capacity to implement Sub-projects under 
Part A of the Project, including Sub-project identification, planning and 
implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, training, and 
goods for provincial technical support teams, and district and Kum Banh 
facilitators; and 
 
(b) strengthening 
the 
Recipient’s institutional capacity at the district and  
provincial levels to improve quality of service delivery, promote participatory 
planning and facilitate dialogue between districts and communities, though the 
provision of training and technical assistance. 
 
Part C
:
National Project Management
Supporting the management and operation of the Poverty Reduction Fund 
through the provision of technical assistance, vehicles and other goods. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Arrangements 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity under a 
fund grant agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity 
(“Fund Grant Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which shall include the following:    
 
(a) 
The obligation of the Recipient to transfer the proceeds of the Credit and 
the Grant, required for the implementation of the Project, to the Project 
Implementing Entity on a non-reimbursable grant basis, and otherwise to take all 
action necessary to permit the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project and ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(b) 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly inform 
 
the Recipient of any condition which obstructs or threatens to obstruct with the 
 
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(c) 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity, at the request of the 
Recipient, to exchange views with the Recipient with regard to the progress of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and the Project 
Implementing Entity’s performance of its obligations under the Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Fund 
Grant Agreement, the Operations Manual, and the Finance and Administration 
Manual, and at all times ensure that only Sub-projects that comply with the Fund 
Grant Agreement and said manuals will be financed from the proceeds of the 
Financing. 
 
(e) 
The mutual obligation of the Recipient and the Project Implementing 
Entity to take steps to ensure that: (a) in the event of the existence of any 
potential adverse environmental effects arising from the implementation of any 
Sub-project, the Social and Environmental Guidelines shall be carried out in a 
manner acceptable to the Association and monitored on a regular basis by both 
the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity; and (b) adequate operational 
procedures shall be maintained at all times to enable both the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate, on a regular basis and 
Page  8
7
based on indicators acceptable to the Association, the prompt carrying out of the 
foregoing. 
 
(f) 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly refund to 
the Recipient any proceeds from the Financing not used for the purposes of 
carrying out the Project or for achieving the objectives thereof, or otherwise 
utilized in a manner in which does not comply with the provisions of this 
Agreement or the Project Agreement. 
 
(g) 
A provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the 
provisions contained in the Fund Grant Agreement, the Operations Manual or the 
Finance and Administration Manual, on the one hand, and those set forth in this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement, on the other, the provisions of this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall at all times prevail. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project with due 
regard to health-safety, social, cultural and environmental principles, practices 
and standards as reflected in the Social and Environmental Guidelines; and 
(b) 
furnish to, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to be furnished to, 
the Association for its prior approval any proposed revisions to be introduced to 
the Social and Environmental Guidelines, in order to achieve its objective and 
thereafter, introduce only such revisions into the guidelines, as shall have been 
agreed with the Association.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than two (2) months after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
Page  9
8
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph A.1 of this Section II, the Recipient, shall prepare or 
cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and, no later than March 31, 2009, furnish to the Association for review and 
comment, annual reports integrating results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed under the Project including those performed under paragraph 
1
of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of such report, providing for a Procurement 
Plan for the next period and setting out the measures
 
recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) month after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  10
9
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set forth 
 
in the Annex to this Schedule 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation in Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consulta
nts’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  11
10
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least-Cost Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c)  Single Source Selection 
(d)  Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit and of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Sub-grants 
11,532,000 
6,187,900 
100% until October 1, 
2008 and 64% 
thereafter of amount of 
Sub-grant disbursed 
Page  12
11
 
(2) Consultants’ 
 
services  
 
(a) Audit 
 
services 
 
(b) Others 
 
32,000 
 
1,997,000 
 
25,300 
 
1,768,900 
100% 
(3) Goods 
   264,000 
   242,100 
100% 
(4) Works 
     68,000 
    47,000 
100% 
(5) Incremental 
Operating Costs  
 
922,595 
  927,300 
100% 
(6)  Refund of 
Project 
Preparation 
Advance 
 
195,405  
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(7) Training 
    289,000 
   101,500 
100% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
15,300,000
9,300,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, in respect of the Grant, 
no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this 
Agreement.   
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the proceeds of 
the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project before disbursements 
of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
Page  13
12
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
1. 
Bidding documents and contracts under national competitive bidding procedures 
financed by the Association shall include a provision requiring suppliers contractors and 
their subcontractors to permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the bid submission and the performance of the supplier and/or contractor, as 
the case may be, and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the Association, if so 
required by the Association.  The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, 
contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
2. 
Immediately after completion of the bid opening proceedings, a copy of the bid 
opening record shall be posted at a prominent location, accessible to the public, outside 
the office of the concerned procuring entity and shall be retained at the same location 
until the award of contract has been notified.  A copy of the bid opening record shall be 
provided to all bidders who submitted bids. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award on a free 
or open access website when it becomes operational or on another means of publication 
acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices 
as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; 
(d) name of bidders whose bid were rejected and the reasons for rejection; (e) name of the 
winning bidder, contract price, explanation if it is different that bid price as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the contract awarded; and (f) contract variation orders. 
This publication shall be updated quarterly. 
 
4. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under section I of the Bank
’s 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank 
in October 2006; accordingly, a firm or individual previously declared ineligible by the 
Association based on determination by the Association that this firm or individual has 
engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices shall be 
declared ineligible to be awarded a contract financed by Association. 
 
5. 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association and the 
Recipient, if it at any time determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through 
an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, an Association-financed contract.
 
Page  14
13
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each December 15 and June 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2012 to and including 
June 15, 2022 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2022 to and including 
June 15, 2042 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Additional Grant” means the additional financing in various currencies 
equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 9,300,000) provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth  
or referred to in this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
 “Beneficiary” means a Project implementation team from a village or group of 
villages eligible to carry out a Sub-project under Part A of the Project.  
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Ethnic Group” means, for purposes of the Project, the social groups residing or 
engaged in livelihood activities under the Project from time to time; each of 
which possesses a distinct social and cultural identity that makes it vulnerable to 
being disadvantaged in the development process, including the presence in 
varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) close attachment to ancestral 
territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and 
identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) a language, 
often different from the Lao language; (iv) presence of customary social and 
political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production; and 
“Ethnic Groups” means, collectively, all such Ethnic Groups. 
 
6. 
“Finance and Administration Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, referred to in paragraphs B.3 and B.3(b) and of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
7. 
“Fund Grant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Poverty Reduction Fund, pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph A.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
Page  16
15
9. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures directly related to 
the Project, incurred by the Project Implementing Entity (which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for 
Project staff travel and per diem, office supplies, utilities, rent, internet fees, PRF 
staff insurance, maintenance of office equipment and operation and maintenance 
of vehicles but excluding salaries.   
 
10. 
“Kum Banh” means a group of villages which acts as a coordinating level to 
facilitate interaction between the District and local communities.   
 
11. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, referred 
to in paragraphs B.3 and B.3 (a) and of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Association. 
 
13. 
“Original Credit” means the original financing in various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,300,000) provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Poverty Reduction Fund” or “PRF” means the entity established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree of the Prime Minister on the Establishment of 
the Poverty Reduction Fund, No.73/PM, dated May 31, 2002, as amended by 
Decree 222/PM dated September 29, 2006, and provided with legal personality 
distinct from that of the Recipient and possessing administrative, managerial, 
technical and financial autonomy under the Recipient’s laws and regulations, for 
purposes of supporting small-scale village investment and services and 
strengthening local capacity for village development, and any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 4, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Association 
and the Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
Page  17
16
18. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Poverty Reduction Fund. 
 
19. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on June 26, 2002 and on 
behalf of the Recipient on July 18, 2002 (Q335-0-LA). 
 
20. 
“Project Province” means the provinces of Champassak, Houaphan, Luan 
Namtha, Saravane, Savannakhet and Xiengkouang, in the territory of the 
Recipient and such other provinces selected by the Poverty Reduction Fund and 
approved by the Association. 
 
21. 
“Social and Environmental Guidelines” means the guidelines, acceptable to be 
Association, dated April 2008, incorporated into the Operations Manual, and 
adopted by the
 
Project Implementing Entity, which sets forth the principles and 
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, governing: (a) the environmental 
preliminary screening of proposed Sub-projects, and the preparation of 
environmental assessment and environment management plans during the 
implementation of the Project; and (b) meaningful consultation with, and the 
informed participation of Ethnic Groups who are affected, or may be affected by 
the Project, and socially and culturally acceptable mitigation measures to address 
impacts on such Ethnic Groups. 
 
22. 
“Sub-grant” means a sub-grant in United States Dollars made or to be made 
available by the Project Implementing Entity out of the proceeds of the Grant to a 
village or group of villages to finance the carrying out of the corresponding Sub-
project under Part A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
relevant Sub-grant Agreement, and the term “Sub-grants” means, collectively, 
more than one Sub-grant.  
 
23. 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Project Implementing Entity and a Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-
grant, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Association, and the term “Sub-grants” means collectively all said Sub-grant 
Agreements. 
 
24. “Sub-project” 
means 
a 
specific
 
community training activity or community public 
capital investment or services project for improving economic or social services 
or for rehabilitating existing or developing new village-based community 
infrastructure, to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-
grant and its own resources and additional funding that could be provided by the 
Recipient, and the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, more than one Sub-
project. 
 
Page  18
17
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) is amended as follows:   
“(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the 
date of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn 
balance of the Credit; and (ii) the date of the Financing Agreement with respect 
to the unwithdrawn balance of the Grant, to the respective dates on which 
amounts are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account or 
cancelled.  The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section.  The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that year.  The Commitment 
Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.  The 
Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 
30-day months.” 
 
