                                                                                                                                                                                                                      44113


Authorized
                                                                                                                                    PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                                                                                                                    APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                               Report No.: AB3756
          Disclosure                                                                                                                          LA - Poverty Reduction Fund Project
                                                                                                             Project Name
                    Public
                                                                                                             Region                           EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
                                                                                                             Sector                           General education sector (30%);Roads and highways
                                                                                                                                              (30%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                                                                                                                                              (20%);Health (10%);Water supply (10%)
                                                                                                             Project ID                       P077326 and P106188
                                                                                                             Borrower(s)                      LAO PDR
                          Authorized                                                                                                          Ministry of Finance
                                                                                                                                              Government of Lao PDR
                                                                                                                                              Lao People's Democratic Republic

                                    Disclosure
                                                                                                             Implementing Agency
                                                                                                                                              Lao Poverty Reduction Fund
                                              Public
                                                                                                                                              P.O. Box 4625
                                                                                                                                              Lao People's Democratic Republic
                                                                                                                                              Tel: +856-21-261480 Fax: +856-21-261481
                                                                                                                                              prflao@laotel.com
                                                                                                             Environment Category             [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)

                                                    Authorized                                               Date PID Prepared                April 24, 2008
                                                                                                             Date of Appraisal                February 4, 2008
                                                                                                             Authorization
                                                                                                             Date of Board Approval           July 8, 2008
                                                              Disclosure


                                                                        Public                              1. Country and Sector Background

                                                                                                            1. Lao PDR has achieved sustained growth and poverty reduction since the adoption of the New
                                                                                                            Economic Mechanism in 1986. Among others, the proportion of people not consuming enough to meet
                                                                                                            basic needs fell from 46 percent in 1992/3, to 33 percent in 2002/3; the number of children completing the
                                                                                                            full primary cycle in 2001 was higher by about 40,000 due to improved retention rates since 1991; the
                                                                                                            number of child deaths within the first twelve months of age in 2000 was lower by about 7,000 due to
                                                                                                            improved child health since 1990; and the number of people with access to improved water in 2004 was
                                                                              Authorized                    higher by 2 million due to more sustainable water management since 1990.

                                                                                                            2. Growth has been an important driver of poverty reduction in Lao PDR. Its annual GDP per capita
                                                                                                            growth rate of 5.2 percent in 2006 was 0.9 percentage points higher than the average of the group of low
                                                                                        Disclosure          income economies. Other drivers have been an increase in educational achievements; improvements in
                                                                                                            the quality of infrastructure, which deteriorated in the 90's due to the collapse of the Soviet Union;

                                                                                                  Public    agricultural growth, driven by expansions in crops, livestock and fisheries as well as forestry; larger
                                                                                                            livestock holdings; and market integration: in 1998/9, 35 percent of rural holdings sold some farm
                                                                                                            produce, while in 2002/3, one in three farmers sold poultry, almost one in two crops, and one in two
                                                                                                            livestock.




                                                                                                                                                                 1

3. These progresses notwithstanding, with a GDP per capita of US$396 in 2005, Lao PDR remains the
second poorest nation of ASEAN, and ranks 133 out of 177 in the 2006 UNDP index of human
development. More than 33 percent of the population remains below the poverty line, and social
indicators in Lao PDR are among the poorest performing in the region: the child mortality rate, for
instance, remains high (79 per thousand), the primary net enrollment rate is 84 percent, and the
prevalence of underweight children remains at 38 percent.

4. In October 2003, the Government adopted a National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
(NGPES), which lays out the overall development framework, its poverty reduction objectives and a
roadmap to reach these objectives over the medium term. The 6th National Socio-Economic Development
Plan (NSEDP) for 2006 to 2010 reaffirmed these goals and targets. The Government intends to boost
investments to initially 47 ("first") priority districts, later to be extended by another 25 ("secondary")
priority districts, out of a total of 141 districts. Large differences subsist between priority and non priority
districts. The first priority districts are less urbanized and have less road access than other districts.
Almost half of their population lives along the Vietnamese border and over half in the highlands. Ethnic
minorities are more likely to inhabit first priority districts. Gaps between priority and other districts in the
provision of education and health services increased since the early 1990s. For instance, the enrollment
rate of children aged 6 to 10 in primary schools remained 50 percent in priority districts, while it
increased from 65 percent in 1992/3 to 70 percent in 2002/3 in other districts; and the health infrastructure
worsened in priority districts relative to other districts.



2. Objectives

5. The Project Development Objectives of the Poverty Reduction Fund Project (PRFP), a Community
Driven Development (CDD) project, are (i) Financing community infrastructure activities, and other
community public capital investments endeavors and training activities at the village level; (ii) Building
local capacity at the village level in poor districts to manage public investment planning and
implementation; and (iii) Strengthening the capacity of local institutions to support participatory
decision-making at the village, koumban, and district levels.



3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

6. The Bank brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in the design and implementation of
community driven development projects. In the additional financing phase the project will continue
supporting the development of local infrastructure and communities' empowerment in the poorest
districts.

7. The project will be scaled up and restructured to enhance its development impact along two
dimensions. First, it will refocus activities on the government's "first priority" districts only. Despite high
donors' involvement in these districts, strong needs for local infrastructure remain, and these districts
have also demonstrated a stronger than expected absorptive capacity of PRFP investments. Therefore,
increasing activities in the "first priority" districts that PRFP is currently assisting, and extending
coverage to new ones will enhance the project's development impact. Second, while delivery of local
infrastructure has been deemed to function satisfactorily, a recent evaluation of CDD approaches in Lao
PDR (including the PRFP) has found that local governments tend to maintain a strong top-down
approach, and would benefit from greater training in participatory planning. Consequently, a new sub-
component will be added that specifically supports capacity building of local institutions in participatory
decision making.




                                                         2

8. By supporting infrastructure building and communities' empowerment, PRFP is in line with the
NGPES principles and policies of maintaining the priority district focus; promoting affordable,
community-based solutions; supporting rural development; building an educational future; and improving
health service delivery. PRFP is also in line with the principles and policies of the National Socio-
Economic Development Plan 2006-2010, which among others aims at (i) promoting participation of the
poor in making decisions about their future, which is seen as being essential for their empowerment; (ii)
fostering decentralization as a means to ensure sustained participation of the people, including the poor
and women in local affairs; and (iii) promoting informed participation of the poor through improved top
down and bottom-up flows of information, communication, and education.



4. Description

9. The PRFP is currently the largest Community Driven Development (CDD) project in Lao PDR. In
cycles I to IV (February 2003 to June 2007), PRFP led to significant developments of road networks,
schools, water/sanitation and health facilities, allocating US$ 12.5 million to sub-grants for infrastructure
and training activities. Between February 2003 and June 2007, the PRFP built 354 schools, 50 bridges, 31
health dispensaries, 1012 water supplies, 119 irrigation schemes, and upgraded 2420 km of roads,
covering 1,880 villages and 744,140 people in 21 of the 72 poor districts in 5 provinces. PRFP is
currently finishing the implementation of Cycle V, where it plans to allocate an additional US$3.7 million
among 307 sub-projects.

10. Under the additional phase (cycles VI to VIII) for the period up to September 2011, US$13.2 million
are expected to be devoted to more than 1500 sub-projects covering 19 "first priority" districts, 1704
villages, and 578,238 people. In all these villages, the PRFP will also support community and local
government empowerment activities with an amount of US$3.1 million.

11. The project aims to deliver resources to poor villages, efficiently and effectively. Villagers themselves
decide on how resources are allocated and will directly manage project funds and the implementation of
agreed upon sub-projects. Extensive facilitation and training provided through the project is be structured
to ensure that poor villagers, including women, participate in the decision-making process and also
benefit from project inputs. The project builds local community capacity by providing technical support
to district officials and villagers on a continual basis over a number of years, to solve problems they
identify and to resolve conflicts that might arise. The project increases demand for services and build
access to services and infrastructure, eventually linking villagers more closely to local government
development efforts. These objectives are achieved through the financing and implementation of three
project components:

A. Village Sub-Project Grants
12. This component finances grants for eligible infrastructure sub-projects identified by the villages, such
as access and transport infrastructure; schools and nurseries; clinics; community halls and other public
buildings (but not village administrative offices); communal water supply systems or structures; and local
markets. Training sessions to communities on livelihood activities, and to individuals or communities
related to the O&M of infrastructure and environmental management are also financed.




B. Local Capacity Building
13. This component supports the PRFP objective of empowering communities by training them in
assessing their own needs, in discussing them with the district, and in implementing and supervising the
construction of public infrastructure. To ensure the sustainability of the participatory planning approach



                                                      3

initiated by the PRFP ­ which, where it works, has proven to increase ownership and communities'
satisfaction ­ the dialogue between communities and the district also needs to be improved. To reach this
goal, and to improve the quality of services delivered to communities, building capacity at the district
level is also essential. The component therefore also reinforces capacity at the district and provincial level
via training sessions and targeted assistance/incentives mechanisms to improve ownership of PRFP
infrastructure by district line agencies; improve the quality of service delivery of PRFP infrastructure;
promote participatory planning at the district and provincial level; and facilitate the dialogue between
districts and communities. The component therefore finances, among others, The costs of the district
offices of the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF) (including operating costs, equipment and staff salaries),
the costs associated to the meetings of villagers (such as village needs assessment meetings, prioritization
and decision meetings), to communities' training on funds management, procurement methods, sub-
project implementation, infrastructures' operation and maintenance, etc. It also finances the field travel
costs of PRF provincial staff, the development of IEC tools and PRF staff training costs.

C. National Project Management
14. This component finances the cost of staffing, managing, monitoring, reporting and operating the
PRFP. It includes salaries and fees of PRF staff; office equipment; vehicles needed to carry out
operational work; operating costs not covered by Government counterparts; evaluations; technical
assistance in the areas of training, monitoring, MIS, accounting, procurement assessments, legal services,
auditing, and other specialist areas, at the exception of the costs financed by the Component B.

15. Transparency and Accountability Mechanisms. Transparency and accountability mechanisms have
been included at all stages of the project selection and implementation process. In the districts, the final
project selection takes place in front of community representatives, district authorities, and PRF staff. In
addition to World Bank supervision missions, physical verification is conducted by PRF staff, who
supervise the implementation of the process, and by communities, which are in charge of the
implementation. The PRF also has put in place a Complaints and Resolution mechanism in each koumban
(i.e. group of villages). Procurement is conducted by communities, but is supervised by PRF staff, which
compares unit costs of all proposals with a Unit Cost Database that it has developed. The National office
will also put in place an internal audit unit to supervise provincial and district offices. Both the National
office and the World Bank supervision team have commissioned technical assessments to evaluate the
construction quality, which overall has been deemed to be satisfactory. At the National level, in addition
to World Bank supervision missions, an independent audit is conducted each year. Moreover, quarterly
and annual reports, which contain, among others, financial information, a complete list of subprojects
approved and implemented, and procurement plans, are published in English on the PRF website.



5. Financing
Source:                                                                                   (US$m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                            0.0
International Development Association (IDA)                                                 15.0
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation                                                  4.8
                                                                               Total        19.8

6. Implementation

16. The Poverty Reduction Fund is a legally established, autonomous entity, formed and run in
accordance with the Decree of the Prime Minster (PM/073) of May 31, 2002. The Fund and the project
are managed by an Executive Director and his office, staffed by project consultants. The Executive
Director answers to the Board of the PRF. The day-to-day management of consultant services and
responsibility for project implementation and quality rests with the facilitators and consultants hired by



                                                       4

the project. The project is implemented by the Executive Director and his/her staff (based in Vientiane
and the participating provinces). The province level offices are manned by staff consultants, and by
facilitators at district and koumban level. All provincial staff and facilitators report to a provincial
coordinator who in turn reports to the Executive Director. There is thus a direct line of command from the
Executive Director to province level technical team and the district facilitators. Local consultants and
facilitators report to the Director but coordinate closely with local government officials and technical
offices. The Director can and will contract consultants to carry out additional tasks such as training,
specific studies and independent monitoring as needed.

17. Allocation of subgrants. Each district receives a block grant per annual cycle. Resources are
allocated to each district based on available population figures, with an average allocation of $5 per capita
rounded to the nearest $ 1,000. The amount of a district's grant is determined and announced at the
beginning of each year. The method by which grant allocations are determined and the amount of the
grant allocations are revisited each year and determined by the Board, based on recommendations from
the Executive Director, and with the Bank's prior review. Sub-projects proposed by koumbans are funded
within the district allocation according to the project rules. Technical information and information on
feasibility is provided to villagers by staff consultants hired by the PRF.

18. Broad-based participation and community decision-making. The project is based on the principle
that villages, negotiating and collaborating together (not just the district or village government, not just
party or village elite), have final decision-making authority over proposals that are funded by the PRFP.
Assistance and information is provided to villagers by facilitators and consultants as well as local
government technical staff, but the communities themselves decide priority sub-projects for funding. All
villages within a targeted district participate. A district is divided into koumbans, and those villages
within a koumban discuss and negotiate to determine which activities they wish to propose to the district
level meeting of all koumbans. Representatives at the district level meeting deliberate and decide which
sub-projects will be funded. During the life of the project each koumban will receive funding, but how
many activities are funded and when will depend on proposals submitted and the deliberations and
decisions of the district-based meetings themselves, the decisions of elected koumban representatives
sitting together, negotiating.

19. Financial Management and Disbursement. To the maximum extent possible the financial
management of the project rests with the beneficiaries at the koumban and district level, with the central
and provincial levels providing financial oversight and supervision. Overall responsibility is with the
Poverty Reduction Fund Project Management Unit, which has an Financial and Administration unit. It
ensures flow of funds to each component, supervises the financial management of the central and sub-
national project management units and is responsible for consolidating financial reports and audits and
reporting to the government and the Bank. The most demanding element of financial management system
is the processes involved in reviewing, verifying and approving payments for investment sub-projects.
Project records and accounts are maintained by the PRF Management, to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures for each project activity. The
accounts are consolidated annually into financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting
documentation is made available by the PRF Management Unit for subsequent audit by Bank's staff and
independent auditors. For expenditures on the basis of Statement of Expenditures, all records providing
evidence for such expenditure are retained by the Borrower until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
payment from the Special Account is made, whichever is later. Project records and accounts, including
the Special Account and SOEs are audited annually by independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, with
audit terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports are furnished to the bank within six months
after the end of each Government's fiscal year.




                                                       5

20. Sectoral Coordination. District facilitators and provincial technical support teams are charged with
coordinating with local government agencies and providing detailed reports on sub-projects planned,
implementation progress and problems, including technical issues. Routine coordination and reports
government development plans to support village activities and avoid overlaps. Facilitators coordinate
closely with district officials and the Provincial Technical Support Team coordinates with and provides
copies of reports to provincial authorities.

21. Supervision, M&E and Reporting. The Project gives special attention to transparency, information
dissemination and monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring includes village participatory monitoring, inter-
koumban or cross village monitoring and independent monitoring. It of course includes routine and
intensive supervision by facilitators and consultants and monitoring by government coordination teams or
technical agencies. The Project also contracts for independent audits and assessments (beneficiary,
technical and procurement). Reporting is done by facilitators and consultants, with the provincial support
team reporting progress and problems routinely, monthly, to the Executive Director. Monthly
coordination meetings are held at each level to discuss progress and problems and to strategize on how to
assist villagers to solve problems that arise that cannot be solved locally, in the villages themselves.
Village sign boards are built and utilized for public display of sub-project information at various stages of
the sub-project cycle.

22. The agency sits under the National Leading Board for Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation,
and, in addition to the national office, has offices in each participating province and district to supervise
and coordinate project implementation.



7. Sustainability

23. Utilizing a twin strategy of social control and technical oversight helps attaining sustainable outcomes
while achieving cost and technical efficiency. Assigning sub-project decision making to beneficiaries at
the koumban level and the district level instills a greater sense of ownership. The project has several
distinctive features that enhance the probability of sustainable village level investments, always a
challenging issue in project design, particularly in low income environments. Local counterpart
contribution is a selection criteria for inter koumban consideration of sub-project proposals, thus
potentially raising the contribution rate above 10 percent and enhancing local ownership. Implementation
of the sub-projects is carried out by village members themselves if they so elect, thus instilling further
commitment to the asset built. Monitoring of the assets built, their quality and maintenance, is financed
by the Project through district and village facilitators. Poor districts remain in the project for several
years, thus allowing the PRF staff and facilitators to be on site and lending support to maintenance work.
The PRFP supports allowances/incentives for social service staff to serve in the remote and poor districts
targeted by the project, over a multi-year period. The PRFP operates in mountainous areas, where the
poor are concentrated, and where natural calamities are more frequent, with flood and animal damage to
infrastructure; reconstruction and repair is therefore an eligible sub-project activity.



8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

24. The Project originally drew lessons from an OED Evaluation of Social Funds as well as the
implementation experience of a number of Community Driven Development instruments in different
countries. Key lessons that were incorporated in the design of the Project include: Need for simplicity and
flexibility in project design and objectives; Caution in the introduction of both sub-grant and sub-loan
lines of business in the same institution; Ensuring involvement of beneficiaries from the very beginning
of the planning process; Beneficiary communities, when given the opportunity and the responsibility, can



                                                       6

successfully implement sub-projects; Autonomous implementing units perform very well particularly in
situations where there is weak government capacity and low civil service remuneration; Capacity building
locally will be necessary for both social and technical aspects; Monitoring should be both quantitative and
qualitative and should take different forms.

25. In addition, for the additional financing phase an assessment of the PRFP performance has been
carried out, and project design has been modified to address the challenges raised by the assessment.
Among others, more resources will be engaged in promoting a participatory planning approach between
the district and communities; specific IEC tools will be developed for non-Lao speaking communities; the
development of a proper maintenance plan stating each one's responsibility, and signed by the
community, the relevant district line agency, and the PRF will become determinant for sub-project
selection; activities will be re-focused towards the poorest "first priority" districts only; and infrastructure
support will be provided in the poorest villages only.



9. Safeguard Policies


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                     [X]                     [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [ ]                    [X]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [ ]                    [X]
  Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                                  [X]                     [ ]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [ ]                    [X]
  Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                           [X]                     [ ]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                    [X]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                    [X]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                                   [ ]                    [X]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                           [ ]                    [X]



26. Since most subprojects are very small (the estimated average is US$8,500), no major environmental
and adverse social impacts are expected. The project will, by the nature of the decision-making process,
not fund any investment that is not acceptable to a significant number of villagers involved. Decisions on
the allocation of funds are made by villagers themselves, through a negotiation process, and with
information provided by project facilitators and consultants. However, small-scale civil works may
require minor land acquisition or may have minor adverse impacts on ethnic minorities or the
environment. Thus, guidelines are included in the operations manual in order to avoid or minimize
adverse environmental and social impacts of sub-projects and to ensure that they meet with the
requirements of the Bank as described in its safeguards policies. The guidelines prescribe a screening and
review process for all sub-projects that may cause adverse impacts on the environment, physical cultural
resources, or people; procedures to avoid or mitigate these impacts; complaint mechanism; and
procedures for monitoring and evaluation. Screening and review will take place prior to submission of
sub-project proposals to the district meeting. Furthermore, to avoid certain adverse impacts on the
environment and people, a number of activities are excluded from the menu of eligible sub-project
investments.

27. With the majority of the population in the project areas being of smaller ethnic groups, the entire
project is considered as an ethnic groups development plan. A Social Assessment was done which

*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims on the
disputed areas



                                                              7

focused on the challenges faced by smaller ethnic groups in Lao PDR, and in the challenges the PRFP has
encountered in working with these groups. The Social Guidelines have been revised to help the PRFP
better address these challenges.

28. In the PRFP operational cycle, the Provincial Technical Support Team and district facilitators will
play an important role in overseeing the application of these procedures, monitoring their results, and
educating village teams to their importance. The aim is to integrate environmental and natural resource
education and awareness raising at the village level through the Technical Support Team and facilitators.



10. List of Factual Technical Documents

Chamberlain, J.R. (2006), Participatory Poverty Assessment, www.adb.org.

World Bank (2006), Lao PDR Poverty Assessment Report: From Valleys to Hilltops ­ 15 Years of
Poverty Reduction, www.worldbank.org.

World Bank (2008), Community-Driven Approaches in Lao PDR: A Review of the Poverty Reduction
Fund and Selected Community-Driven Livelihood Projects, mimeo, The World Bank.

World Bank (2008), Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA): Impact of Public Expenditures on
Ethnic groups and Women, mimeo, The World Bank.



11. Contact point

        Task Team Leader
        Jamele Rigolini
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington D.C. 20433
        Telephone: +1 202 473 2729
        Email: jrigolini@worldbank.org



12. For more information contact:

        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-4500
        Fax: (202) 522-1500
        Email: pic@worldbank.org
        Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                     8

