                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                 ReportNo: 43335-LA




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                  ONA

                         PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGGRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR9.3 MILLION
                                 (US$lS.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                             LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC

                                                FOR THE

                              POVERTY REDUCTION FUNDPROJECT

                                             JUNE 13,2008




HumanDevelopmentUnit
East Asia and Pacific Region




 This document has a restricteddistribution and maybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance of
  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

            (ExchangeRateEffectiveJune 4,2008)


               CurrencyUnit = Lao KIP (LAK)
               LAK8,690.80 = US$1
                         US$1 = SDR0.6166

                         FISCALYEAR
                September 1      - October31



             ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS


CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community Driven Development
DA       Designated Account
E M      East Asia and Pacific
FM       Financial Management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
rJ3RD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC      Information Education Communication
IRR      ImplementingRules and Regulations
LFNC     Lao Front for National Construction
M I S    Management Information System
NGPES    National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
NSEDP    National Socio-Economic Development Plan
PER      Public ExpenditureReview
PMT      ProjectManagement Team
PRF      Poverty ReductionFund
PRFO     Poverty ReductionFundOffice
PRFP     Poverty ReductionFundProject
SDC      Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
S I L    Specific InvestmentLoan
SOE      Statements o f Expenditures
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
VNPA     Village Needs and Priorities Assessment




             Vice President:  James W. Adams
          Country Director:   Ian C. Porter
             Sector Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
         Task Team Leader:    Iamele P. Rigolini

                                                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                        POVERTY REDUCTION FUNDPROJECT

                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND PROJECTRESTRUCTURING




                                                                   CONTENTS



     I.Introduction................................................................................................................................. 1
     I1.Country andProject Background...............................................................................................                 1
     I11.Rationale for Additional Financing andProposed Changes.....................................................                                 4
     IV. Consistency with the Country Assistance Strategy .................................................................                          6
     V. Appraisal ofRestructuredand Scaled-up Project Activities.....................................................                                7
     VI. ExpectedOutcomes .................................................................................................................          7
     VI1.Benefits andRisks...................................................................................................................        8
     VI11.FinancialManagement andDisbursement...........................................................................                            10
     IX FinancialTerms And Conditions For The AdditionalFinancing..........................................
        .                                                                                                                                           11

     Appendices
     -STATUSOFUSEOFFUNDSANDREVISEDNEWALLOCATION............................
     A.l                                                                                                                                            12
     A.2 KEYPERFORMANCE INDICATORS...............................................................................                                   13
     -REPORTINGARRANGEMENTS......................................................................................
     A.3                                                                                                                                            21
     A.4 FIDUCIARYARRANGEMENTS....................................................................................... 22
     . ARRANGEMENTS
     AS PROCUREMENT                                                 ............................................................................... 25




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                              PROJECTPAPERDATA        SHEET




Recipient: Lao PDR
Responsible agency: Poverty Reduction Fund
-Luang Prabang Road, Vientiane Capital, Lao PDR
Tel: +856 21 261480 Email: pr-
                                                                     P




FY                FY09            FYlO            FYll          FY12




                                                                           oYes X N o


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: The overall project development
objectives remain substantively unchanged. Benejciaries, however, have repeatedly
askedfor support of training activities. These have therefore been added in the
obiectives.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o

                                For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$15.0 million equivalent
        Proposed terms: Not applicable


I.Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an additional grant
in an amount of SDR9.3 million (US$l5.0 million equivalent) to the Lao People's Democratic
Republic for the Poverty Reduction Fund Project (PRFP), Credit number 3675-LA. One
Financing Agreement amending and restating the original Development Credit Agreement
(C3675-LA) and including the additional financing will be used for the restructured and scaled up
Project. The new closing date o f the Project will be September 30, 2011.

2. The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs associated with extending,
restructuring and scaling up PRFP activities. The proposed additional financing will support the
Project scale up and restructuringinthe form o f a 3 year extension o f activities o f the PRFP inthe
14 poorest districts it already covers (out o f 21 currently covered), initiate activities in5 new poor
districts, and add a new sub-component, "Capacity Building o f Local Institutions", intended to
promote participatory planning by enhancing the dialogue between communities and local
governments. The village targeting mechanism and key performance indicators will also be
modifiedto strengthen the pro-poor focus o f the PRFP.

3. The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) i s expected to co-finance the
additional financing phase with an amount o f US$4.8 million.

11.Country and Project Background

4. Country and sector context. Lao PDR has achieved sustained growth and poverty reduction
since the adoption o f the New Economic Mechanism in 1986. Among others, the proportion o f
people not consuming enough to meet basic needs fell from 46 percent in 1992/3, to 33 percent in
2002/3; the number o f children completing the full primary cycle in 2001 was higher by about
40,000 due to improved retention rates since 1991; the number o f child deaths within the first
twelve months o f age in2000 was lower by about 7,000 due to improved child health since 1990;
and the number o f people with access to improved water in 2004 was higher by 2 million due to
more sustainable water management since 1990.

5. Growth has been an important driver o f poverty reduction in Lao PDR. It's annual GDP per
capita growth rate o f 5.2 percent in2006 was 0.9 percentage points higher than the average o f the
group o f low income economies. Other drivers have been an increase in educational
achievements; improvements inthe quality o f infrastructure, which deteriorated inthe 90's due to
the collapse o f the Soviet Union; and market integration: in 1998/9, 35 percent o f rural holdings
sold some farm produce, while in 2002/3, one in three farmers sold poultry, almost one in two
crops, and one intwo livestock.

6. These progresses notwithstanding, with a GDP per capita o f US$396 in 2005, Lao PDR
remains the second poorest nation o f ASEAN, and ranks 133 out o f 177 inthe 2006 UNDP index
o f human development. More than 33 percent o f the population remains below the poverty line,
and social indicators in Lao PDR are among the poorest performing in the region: the child
mortality rate, for instance, remains high (79 per thousand), the primary net enrollment rate i s 84
percent, and the prevalence o f underweight children remains at 38 percent.

7. InOctober 2003, the Government adopted a National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
(NGPES), which lays out the overall development framework, its poverty reduction objectives
and a roadmap to reach these objectives over the medium term. The 6th National Socio-Economic


                                                    1

Development Plan (NSEDP)           for 2006 to 2010 reaffirmed these goals and targets. The
Government intends to boost investments to initially 47 ("first")        priority districts, later to be
extended by another 25 ("secondary")        priority districts, out o f a total o f 141 districts. Large
differences exist between priority and non priority districts. The first priority districts are among
the poorest, less urbanized, and have less road access than other districts. Almost half of their
population lives along the Vietnamese border and over half inthe highlands. Ethnic minorities are
more likely to inhabit first priority districts. Gaps between priority and other districts in the
provision o f education and health services increased since the early 1990s. For instance, the
enrollment rate of children aged 6 to 10 in primary schools remained 50 percent in priority
districts, while it increased from 65 percent in 1992/3 to 70 percent in 2002/3 in other districts;
and the health infrastructure worsened inpriority districts relative to other districts.

8. Harmonizationof community driven approaches in Lao PDR. A major issue in the poorest
districts at the moment i s one o f multiple donors, each implementingtheir own community-driven
projects, leading to a multiplicity o f approaches being applied. Approaches that empower
communities, by giving them greater decision-making power and responsibilities for managing
implementation, need to go side by side with approaches that allow district government to gain
hands-on experience in district planning and budgeting. There i s an urgent need for strong
leadership by the government to review the impacts o f existing approaches and coordinate the
donors to come together around a comprehensive strategy that would achieve both these ends in
the best way. During preparation o f the additional financing phase, various meetings with
concerned stakeholders have been held to initiate such a dialogue. Internal meetings have also
been held to enhance coordination with the Khammouane Rural Livelihoods Project, a C D D
project financed by the World Bank inthe context o fNam Theun 2.

9. Project background. The Project objective o f the Poverty Reduction Fund Project, a
Community Driven Development (CDD) project, i s to assist the Government in its on-going
efforts to alleviate poverty throughout its territory by (a) Financing community infrastructure
activities, and other community public capital investments endeavors and training activities at the
village level; (b) Building local capacity at the village level in poor districts to manage public
investment planning and implementation; and (e) Strengthening the capacity of local institutions
to support participatory decision-making at the village, koumban, and district levels. The Project
development objectives remain substantially unchanged. Beneficiaries, however, have repeatedly
asked for support o f training activities, and these have therefore been added to the objective.

10. The PRFP i s currently the largest CDD project in Lao PDR. InCycles Ito IV (February 2003
to June 2007), the PRFP led to significant developments o f road networks, schools,
waterhanitation and health facilities, allocating US$12.9 million to sub-grants for infrastructure
and training activities. Between February 2003 and June 2007, the PRFP built 354 schools, 50
bridges, 3 1 health dispensaries, 1012 water supplies, 119 irrigation schemes, and upgraded 2420
km o f roads, covering 1,880 villages and 744,140 people in 21 o f the 72 poor districts in 5
provinces. The PRFP i s currently finishing the implementation o f Cycle V, where it plans to
allocate an additional US$3.7 million among 307 sub-projects.

11. The PRFP is managed by the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF), a legally established,
autonomous entity, formed and runinaccordance with the Decree o f the Prime Minster (PhU073)
o f M a y 31, 2002. The PRF and the PRFP are managed by an Executive Director and his office,
staffed by consultants. The Executive Director answers to the Board o f the PRF, and the day-to-
day management o f consultant services and responsibility for PRFP implementation and quality
rests with the facilitators and consultants hired by the PRF.



                                                   2

12. The original IDA Credit in the amount o f SDR 15.3 million was approved on June 25, 2002.
The Project became effective on February 3,2003 and the closing date i s September 30, 2008. It
i s a Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL). As o f January 10,2008, the Project has disbursed an amount
o f SDR 13.11 million, leaving an undisbursed amount o f SDR 2.19 million that will be used to
complete implementation o f existing sub-projects. The Project i s in compliance with the legal
covenants and has followed the agreed procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and safeguard requirements. Overall, implementation performance ratings have
remained satisfactory duringthe whole duration o f the Project.

13. The PRFP currently has three main components:

     A. VillageSub-project Grants
     This component finances grants for eligible infrastructure sub-projects identified by the
     villages, such as access and transport infrastructure; schools and nurseries; clinics;
     community halls and other public buildings (but not village administrative offices);
     communal water supply systems or structures; and local markets. Training sessions to
      communities on livelihood activities, and to individuals or communities related to the
      operation and maintenance (O&M) o f infrastructure and environmental management are also
      financed.

     B. Local Capacity Building
     This component supports the PRFP objective o f empowering communities by training them
     in assessing their own needs, in discussing them with the district, and in implementing and
      supervising the construction o f public infrastructure. The component therefore finances,
     among others, PRF district offices costs (including operating costs, equipment and staff
      salaries), the costs associated to the meetings o f villagers (such as village needs assessment
     meetings, prioritization and decision        meetings), to communities' training on funds
     management, procurement methods, sub-project implementation, infrastructures' O&M, etc.
     It also finances the field travel costs o f PRFprovincial staff, the development of Information
     Education Communication (IEC) tools and PRF staff training costs.

      C.National Project Management
     This component finances the cost o f staffing, managing, monitoring, reporting and operating
     the PRFP. It includes salaries and fees o f PRF staff; office equipment; vehicles needed to
     carry out operational work; operating costs not covered by Government counterparts;
      evaluations;   technical assistance in the areas o f training, monitoring, Management
     Information System (MIS), accounting, procurement assessments, legal services, auditing,
     and other specialist areas, at the exception o f the costs financed by the Component B.

14. Transparency and Accountability Mechanisms. Transparency and accountability
mechanisms have been included at all stages o f the sub-project selection and implementation
process. In the districts, the final sub-project selection takes place in front o f community
representatives, district authorities, and PRF staff. In addition to World Bank supervision
missions, physical verification i s conducted by PRF staff, who supervise the implementation o f
the process, and by communities, which are in charge o f the implementation. The PRF also has
put in place a Complaints and Resolution mechanism in each koumban (i.e. group o f villages).
Procurement i s conducted by communities, but i s supervised by PRF staff, which compares unit
costs o f all proposals with a Unit Cost Database that it has developed. The National office will
also put in place an internal audit unit to supervise provincial and district offices. Both the
National office and the World Bank supervision team have commissioned technical assessments


                                                   3

to evaluate the construction quality, which overall has been deemed to be satisfactory. At the
National level, in addition to World Bank supervision missions, an independent financial audit i s
conducted each year. Moreover, quarterly and annual reports, which contain, among others,
financial information, a complete list o f sub-projects approved and implemented, and
procurement plans, are published inEnglishon the PRF website.

111.Rationalefor Additional FinancingandProposed Changes

15. In the additional financing phase, the Project will continue supporting the development o f
local infrastructure and communities' empowerment in the poorest districts. The PRFP already
underwent five annual investment cycles financed by the original IDA credit, and under the
additional phase (cycles VI to VIII) for the period up to September 2011, US$13.2 million would
be devoted to more than 1,500 sub-projects covering 19 "first priority" districts (of which 5 are
new), 1,640 villages, and 593,798 people (see Table 1). In all these villages, the PRFP will also
support community and local government empowerment activities with an amount o f US$3.1
million.

16. The Project will be scaled up and restructured to enhance its development impact along two
dimensions. First, it will refocus activities on the government's "first priority" districts only.
Despite high donors involvement in these districts, strong needs for local infrastructure remain,
and these districts have also demonstrated a stronger than expected absorptive capacity o f PRFP
investments. Therefore, increasing activities in the "first priority" districts that PRFP i s currently
assisting, and extending coverage to new ones will enhance the Project's development impact.
Second, while delivery o f local infrastructure has been deemed to function satisfactorily, a recent
evaluation o f C D D approaches in Lao PDR (including the PRFP) by the World Bank has found
that local governments tend to maintain a strong top-down approach, and would benefit from
greater training inparticipatory planning. Consequently, a new sub-component will be added that
specifically supports capacity buildingo f local institutions inparticipatory decision malung. The
next paragraphs discuss the changes inmore details.

17. Change in coverage. Table 1presents changes incoverage by province. Districts that are not
"first priority" will no longer be covered, while coverage will be maintained in all "first priority"
districts that are already covered under the Project. Furthermore, the Project will now cover all
"first priority" districts in the provinces where it will be active, and it will also cover one
additional province (Luang Namtha). Observe that a choice has been made to cover less people,
butwithhigher needs: therefore, populationcoverage will drop by 20percent.

                                     Table 1.Changesin coverage

                              Current Coverage                         Coveragefrom CycleVI
                First Priority Other                        First Priority Other
 Province         Districts   Districts Villages Population   Districts   Districts Villages Population

Champassak            1          3           354   206,342        2                      156    94,963
 Huaphan              5          2           638   219,799        5                      544   167,725
 Luang Namtha                                                     3                      205    70,005
 Saravane             2          1           179    56,086        2                      113    34,301
Savannakhet           4                      393   148,423        4                      393   148,423
Xiengkhouang          2          1           316   113,490        3                      229    78,381
TOTAL                14          7         1,880   744,140       19          0         1,640   593,798




                                                    4

18. New subcomponent "Capacity Building for Local Institutions." The PRFP has previously
focused on empowerment and capacity buildingat the community level. However, at the moment
local authorities do not always embrace participatory approaches, partly because o f a lack of
training and understanding o f the benefits o f participation leading to a poor dialogue with
communities. To ensure the sustainability o f the participatory planning approach initiated by the
PRFP - which, where it works, has proven to increase ownership and communities' satisfaction -
the dialogue between communities and the district needs to be improved. To reach this goal, and
to improve the quality o f services delivered to communities, buildingcapacity at the district level
i s also essential. The new subcomponent will therefore reinforce capacity at the district and
provincial level via training sessions and targeted assistancehcentives mechanisms to improve
ownership o f PRFP infrastructure by district line agencies; improve the quality o f service delivery
o f PRFP infrastructure; promote participatory planning at the district and provincial level; and
facilitate the dialogue between districts and communities. A training and capacity manual for
local institutions has been developed, and the cost o f this subcomponent has been included in
budget estimations.

19. Increased collaborationwith line agencies at all levels. Inthe context o f preparation o f the
new subcomponent, discussions have been held with Provinces, the Ministry o f Education, the
Ministryo f Health, and the Lao Front for National Construction (LFNC) on how to improve the
collaboration between the PRF, line ministries, and mass-based organizations. The dialogue with
line ministries and mass-based organizations i s expected to continue during the additional
financing period, and i s expected to lead to institutional changes in the PRFP design that will
better integrate it into the government. Meetings with other mass-based organizations (Lao Youth
and Lao Women's Union) will also take place before the beginning o f the implementation o f
Cycle VI to increase the collaborationbetweenthem and the PRF.

20. Improvement of PRFP targeting of non-Lao speakingethnic groups. Although, by means
o f its universal coverage in its districts o f activity, the PRFP targets all ethnic groups equally, the
first cycles o f activity have shown that language barriers tend to disfavor ethnic groups that do
not speak Lao, mostly because all meetings are conducted in Lao. An Information Education
Communication (IEC) strategy has therefore been developed to better involve non-Lao speaking
communities. To achieve this scope, an IEC officer will be recruited who will produce graphical
communication tools; translators will be hired to assist in meetings; and a better collaboration
withthe LFNC will be sought on ethnic affairs.

21. Improvement of PRFP pro-poor targeting. During the first five years o f PRFP activity,
poor and less-poor, accessible and remote communities benefited de facto equally from PRFP
investments. New rules have therefore been developed to improve the pro-poor targeting o f the
PRFP, while maintaining its universal coverage. Starting from the new cycle o f activities (Cycle
VI, which is due to start inMay 2008), villages' infrastructure endowments (such as schools, road
access, and water facilities) will be surveyed yearly, and a ranking o f villages in terms o f
infrastructure needs will be constructed. The neediest villages will then be able to request both
infrastructure and training activities, while the better endowed villages (which usually are richer
and more accessible) will only be able to apply for training activities.

22. Increased focus on O&M. In its first five years o f existence the PRFP has piloted several
ways to improve the O&M o f the supported facilities. While it has managed to satisfactorily
ensure proper operation (by, for instance, supporting recurrent cost for hiring teachers temporarily
untilthey are converted into civil servants), and constructionquality o fPRFP-supported facilities
has been deemed by an independent (World Bank contracted) expert to be satisfactory, long term
maintenance and sustainability o f the infrastructure it delivers i s not always ensured, partly


                                                      5

because o f a lack o f clear division o f maintenance responsibilities between communities, and
district line agencies. Starting from the new cycle (Cycle VI) o f activities, the development o f a
proper maintenance plan stating each one's responsibility, and signed by the community, the
relevant district line agency, and the PRF will therefore be a determinant for sub-project
selection.

23. Changesinthe technicaldesign of the Project.The Operations Manual has been revisedto
reflect lessons learned. The sub-project selection process has been improved to channel more
investments towards the poorest villages; the ability o f communities and districts to maintain the
received infrastructure will now be part o f the criteria for sub-project selection; the list o f allowed
investments has been modifiedto explicitly exclude physical support o f livelihood activities; and
the Feedback and Conflict Resolution Mechanismnow has an anonymous complaint mechanism
to improve the information flow. The Project Management Team (PMT) has also revised the
Technical Guidelines to improve construction quality standards; developed an IEC manual to
better promulgate the PRFP principles among the population; developed a capacity building
manual describing training to communities and local government officials; and revised all
remaining manuals, such as the procurement manual to update it to the new World Bank's
procurement guidelines, and the Finance and Administration Manual. As the financial
management system originally could track expenditures by category but not by component, it will
also be revised to allow tracking along both dimensions. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation
database and the data collection design have been revised to improve the reliability o f the data
collected.

24. Outcome indicators. The Project Development Objectives have been modified to add
training activities at the village level. The outcome indicators will also change. The original
outcome indicators in the Project results framework were quite general, and too numerous for
strategic management o f results. Therefore the outcome indicators have been revised to better
capture the key aspects o f the Project Development Objectives (see Appendix 11).

25. Extensionof the closing date. Activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are
expected to be completed by July 3lst,    2011; as such the closing dates of both the initial credit
and additional grant are proposed for September 30th,2011 (a 36 months extension).

26. Revisedallocationfor the additionalfinancing. The summarized table o f the status o f funds
for each component o f the initial Project (IDA Credit 3675-LA), and the revised allocation per
component under the restructured and scaled-up Project are attached inAppendix I.

IV. Consistencywith the CountryAssistance Strategy

27. The present CAS, discussed by the Board on March 31, 2005 (Document Number
IDNR2005-0041/1) i s designed to support the Government's National Growth and Poverty
Eradication Strategy (NGPES).        By supporting infrastructure building and communities'
empowerment, the PRFP i s in line with the NGPES principles and policies o f maintaining the
priority district focus; promoting affordable, community-based solutions; supporting rural
development; building an educational future; and improving health service delively. The PRFP i s
also in line with the principles and policies o f the National Socio-Economic Development Plan
2006-2010, which, among others, aims at (a) promoting participation of the poor in making
decisions about theirfuture, which i s seen as beingessential for their empowerment; (b)fostering
decentralization as a means to ensure sustained participation of the people, including the poor
and women in local affairs; and (c) promoting informed participation of the poor through
improved top down and bottom-upflows of information, communication, and education. As such,


                                                  6

the PRFP also supports CAS objective 1to sustain growth by promoting rural development; and
CAS objective2 to improve social outcomes and reduce vulnerability. The PRFP is also in line
with the CAS ProgressReport, dated May4,2007.

V. Appraisalof Restructuredand Scaled-upProjectActivities

28. The World Bank has reappraised the existing components, and completed appraisal of the
financial, technical, fiduciary, environmental, and social aspects of the proposed additional
activities. The appraisal verifies that all arrangements are set, fiduciary controls are inplace, and
the PRF Project ManagementUnit i s ready and has adequate capacity to scale up the Project and
implement the additional activities. The implementation systems are expected to continue to
operate satisfactorily during the remainder o f the Project. As consultations for the revised set of
manuals and guidelines are still ongoing, and may lead to minor changes, a condition of
effectiveness will be that the Recipient shall adopt a revised Operations Manual and Financial and
Administration Manual satisfactory to the Association. Appendix IV and V contain assessments
o f fiduciary and procurement arrangements.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

29. The Project Development Objectives (PDO) remain substantially unchanged. Due to strong
demand from beneficiaries for support o f training activities, however, these have been added in
the objectives. The following new/additional indicators are also proposed to better assess the
PRFP's achievements based on the performance observed during the first phase (Cycles Ito V)
and to set the benchmark for the PRFP's future operations beyond cycle VIII. As empowerment i s
a difficult concept to measure quantitatively, and the core o f the PRFP consists o f a demand-
driven participatory planning process leading to a competitive selection o f sub-projects at the
koumban level by community representatives, setting quantitative targets i s not always possible:
some indicators are therefore explicitly left without targets, and qualitative indicators have also
been introduced. The complete list o f original and revised Key Performance Indicators i s
presented inAppendix 11.

30. PDO I:Financing community infrastructure activities, and other community public capital
investments endeavors and training activities at the village level.

      Utilization rates o f public infrastructure and services delivered by the Project, measured for
      each type o f sub-project:
      -   Schools: Number of students per teacher; >80% of sample villages with PRFP school
          sub-projects have net school enrolment rates >80% among children ages 6-10.
      -   Health Dispensaries: in >60% of sample PRFP health centers, minimum package of
          health services isprovided.
      -   Road/Bridges: >80% of sample villages with PRFP road sub-projects will have access
          to district center by small vehicleallyear round.
      -    Water and Sanitation: >80% of sample villages with PRFP waterhanitation sub-
          projects have universal access to clean and safe water.
      -   Overall quality of PRFP sub-projects: >70% of inspected PRFP sub-projects meet the
          PRFP technical guidelines.


                                                   7

     Beneficiary satisfaction with the public goods and services provided by the PRFP:
     -    >70% of allocated sub-projects were identijied as priorities at village level (during the
          VillageNeeds and Priorities Assessment (WPA) meetings).

      -   >80% satisfaction level from the beneficiaries regarding improved infrastructure and
          services.

     Pro-poor targeting: % of infrastructure sub-projects in villages without road access.

31. PDO 11: Building local capacity at the village level in poor districts to manage public
investmentplanning and implementation.

     Participation rates of women and small ethnic groups in planning and decision making
     meetings.

      % of non-Lao speakingfacilitators at koumban and district level.

      Feedback and Conflict Resolution Mechanism: Number and types of cases received and
      resolved; number of days needed to resolve cases.

      Community awarenesshnderstanding o fbenefits and responsibilities inthe PRFP's operation
      and process: >70%of sub-projects will have operational maintenanceplans after 3 years.

32. PDO 111:Strengthening the capacity of local institutions to supportparticipatory decision-
making at the village, koumban, and district levels.

     Level o f understanding o f participatory approaches by the relevant local government
     officials:
      -   Number of trained government oficials who recognize the significance of participatory
          approaches.

      -   Proportion of relevant line agencies officials           holding regular dialogue with
          communities.


VII. BenefitsandRisks

33, Benefits of the new subcomponent "Capacity Buildingfor Local Institutions." Lao PDR
still has a strong and centralized top-down planning approach, with most o f the communities'
budget being managed by the provinces. The new subcomponent will promote participatory
planning (which has proven to better respond to communities' needs, increase ownership and
communities' satisfaction) at the local (district) level. It will do so by assisting district officials in
their dialogue with communities; increase district and province officials' awareness o f the
benefits of participatory planning, and training them in participatory planning methods; and
supporting more frequent visits to villages. A training and capacity manual for local institutions
has been developed.



                                                   8

   34. Risks associated to the Project. The risks associated to the new subcomponent do not differ
   substantially from the overall risks associated to the Project, which remain moderate. The
   following risk matrix discusses the mainrisks associated to the Project.

Table 2. Risk matrix.

 Risks                                                   Mitigation
 PRFP coverage excludes                                  M&Edata containinformation about ethnicity;
 vulnerable ethnic groups                                monitoring undertaken by various actors.
                                                         Autonomy o f PRF; strong participatory
 Political interference inPRFP                           approach; monitoring by various groups at all
 operations                              M        M      levels; procurement and beneficiary
                                                         assessments.

 Contractors attempt to take                             PRFteam provides support throughout
                                                         implementation; consistency checks with unit
                                                         cost database.
                                                         Monitoringundertaken by various actors;
 Misallocation o f Project resources                     expanded scope audits and procurement
                                                         assessments.
 Increase inexisting internal                            Close supervision by PRF staff o f fund
Iinequities due to opportunities
 offered by the Project                  LL   II  MM     allocations.
                                       I
                                                         ;=low; M=moderate; H=high.


   35. Safeguards policies. Based on the evaluation o f the first four years o f activities, and
   discussions with the Safeguards Secretariat, it has been confirmed that this i s a caterrow B
   project. No schemes are approved, and funds are not allocated, untilthe environmental viability i s
   ascertained in accordance with the Social and Environmental Guidelines included in the
   Operations Manual o f the ongoing Project. Site specific environmental impacts are dealt with at
   the design stage and during sub-project implementation. No involuntary resettlement and land
   acquisition will be allowed, hence OPBP 4.12 i s not triggered. Nonetheless, procedures to
   regulate and record voluntary contributions have been set and are included in the Social and
   Environmental Guidelines. With the majority o f the population in the Project areas being from
   smaller ethnic groups, the entire Project i s considered an ethnic groups development plan. The
   ethnic composition o f the district will influence the design o f communication materials to ensure
   messages are well targeted and appropriate to the population groups. The Operations Manual
   contains environmental and social guidelines pertaining to the safeguards policies that apply.




                                                    9

                                         Table 3. Safeguardpolicies

          Safeguardpolicies triggered                              Yes        No       TBD

          EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP4.01)                       J
          Natural Habits (OP/BP4.04)                                           J
          Forests (OP/BP4.36)                                                  J
          Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                             J
          PhysicalCulturalResources(OPIBP4.11)                      J
          IndigenousPeoples (OP/BP 4.10)                            J
          InvoluntaryResettlement(OPIBP4.12)                                   J
          Safety of Dams (OPIBP4.37)                                           J
          Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                       J
          Projects in DisputedAreas (OP/BP7.60)                    J


36. Appraisal and recent supervision missions have revealed that the Social and Environmental
Safeguards guidelines need more forcehl monitoring and attention, partly because district PRF
staff did not receive the necessary training to ensure proper implementation o f these procedures.
Environmental and Safeguards guidelines have therefore been revised and the implementation o f
the revised guidelines - including training o f local staff - will be strictly supervised.

37. Neutrality of the PRFP with respect to the resettlements of groups of villagers under
Government's policies. A political risk for the PRFP (not covered by safeguards) is associated
with the Government's policy o f resettling groups o f villagers; a Government policy that is not
supported by the PRFP, but i s currently being implemented in some o f the districts covered by the
PRFP. To mitigate this risko f association, several measures have been taken:

    0   PRFP coverage is universal, and is based on decentralized planning with roots in all
        communities. All villages inPRFP districts discuss and submit proposals, and an ex-post
        assessment has shown that remote villages do receive infrastructure sub-projects
        (although priority tends to be put on the most urgent needs o f less remote villages).
        Moreover, the participatory planning approach engendered by the PRFP also creates a
        space for discussion between communities, and local officials.
    0   PRFP will only support infrastructure sub-projects in thepoorest villages, which tend to
        be the most remote ones. To improve the pro-poor targeting of the PRFP, sub-project
        allocation rules have been revised, and now impose that only villages with strong
        deficiencies in infrastructure (which tend to be the most remote villages) are allowed to
        apply for infrastructure sub-projects (all villages, however, are entitled to apply to
        training activities).
        The government agreed that the Project will not support government programs involving
        village consolidation and/or resettlement that are not consistent with World Bank
        policies. This statement will be included inthe Social and Environmental Guidelines, and
        will permit the supervising World Bank team to discuss the issue with the Government in
        case it appears that the PRFP will be used for such purposes.

VIII. Financial Management andDisbursement

38. The financial management (FM) arrangements for the Project would remain fundamentally
unchanged for the additional financing. The grant would be incorporated into the amended legal
agreement which would provide, to the extent possible, for the disbursement o f the credit prior to
drawdown o f any funds under the grant. The Ministry of Finance (MoF) shall make the proceeds



                                                  10

o f the Financing available to the PRF under a fund grant agreement between M o F and the PRF,
and under terms and conditions approved by the Association. Inparticular, M o F will have the
obligation to transfer the proceeds o f the Grant, required for the implementation o f the Project, to
the PRF on a non-reimbursable grant basis. The existing designated account would be retained
with no change to the authorized allocation as would the structure o f implementation
arrangements for FM, which have consistently been rated as satisfactory, with the last audit report
available having an unqualified opinion. The Financial Management and Administration Manual
has been updated to further strengthen controls in response to findings set out in audit
management letters and FM supervision reports (the manual may require further minor revision to
accommodate the parallel financing being provided by SDC). Although the current FM
arrangements are working well, during Project implementation period there i s the possibility that
M o F will harmonize FMaccounting software across all projects.

39. SDC co-financing. SDC i s expected to contribute towards the additional financing phase with
US$4.8 million under a separate bilateral agreement (a Partnership Working Arrangement-PWA)
will be prepared and is expected to be signed between Lao PDR, the World Bank, and SDC by
August 2008). Project scale up and restructuring has been conducted jointly, and manuals have
been cleared by both World Bank and SDC. It has been agreed that the SDC contribution will be
reflected at the program level, and that the SDC will be financing a fixed percentage o f each
transaction in the sub-grants category. SDC financing will be maintained in a mirror structure o f
bank accounts due to the current limitations o f both the FM systems and capacity o f staff to
undertake reconciliations o f virtual accounts should the SDC and IDA grant funds be pooled into
a single structure o f accounts. However, maintaining separate accounts represents a temporary
solution. The PRF will actively seek to improve its FM capacity and its FM software to be able to
move towards pooled accounts, which will make it easier to manage multiple financing sources.
As the P W A between Development Partners and the Government is not expected to be signed
until August 2008, there is a risk that the next phase o f the Project will commence without the
parallel financing being in place: in this case, the disbursement percentage for the World Bank
financing mightneed to be adjusted.

40. Procurement. The IDA Procurement Guidelines o f May 2004 (revised October 2006) would
be applicable to the additional financing as well as to the original Project activities after approval
o f the additional financing.

IX. FinancialTerms And ConditionsFor TheAdditionalFinancing

41. The additional financing o f US$15.O million equivalent would be provided as an IDA-Grant.
The condition o f effectiveness i s the receipt o f a legal opinion certifying that the additional
financing agreement will have been duly authorized and executed by the Government o f Lao
PDR and is legally binding. The additional event o f effectiveness consists o f the following: the
Recipient shall adopt a revised Operations Manual and Finance and Administration Manual
satisfactory to the Association (see also Section V).




                                                  11

                                                                               APPENDIX I

                               STATUSOFUSEOFFUNDSAND REVISEDNEWALLOCATION



                          Sourceof funds: ongoingCredit C3675, new IDA Grant, and SDC financing
                                                                        (Cost estimatesinUS$)




Village Sub-Project Grants                          18,989,052          17,445,959             1,543,093                8,374,200          4,800,000     14,717,293     32,163,252

Consultant's Services (a. Audit Services)                52,692            40.486                 12,206                   54,000                   0        66,206         106,692
Consultant's Sewices (b. Others)                      3,288,340          2,901,263               387.077                3,768,000                   0     4,153.077      7,054,340
Goods                                                   434,713            310,712               124,001                  515,400                   0       839,401         950.113
works                                                   111.972             65,122                46.850                  100,000                   0       146,850         211,972
Incrementa OperatingCosts                             1,519,182          1,220,776               298,406                1,974,400                   0     2,272,806      3,493,582
PPF Expenditures                                        321,762            321,762                     0                                                          0         321,762
Training                                                475,879           429,919                 45,960                 216,000                    0       261,960         691,879
Total project costs                                 25.193,592          22,735,999             2,457,593               15,000,000          4,800,000     22,257,593     44,993,592




Village Sub-Project Grants                          18,989,052          17,445,959             1,543,093                8,374,200          4,800,000     14,717,293     32,163,252

                                                                                                                        3,695,000                   0     4,152,250




1. Financial data for Local Capacity Building and National Project Management are presented jointly for the onginal financing phase as the Financial Management System was not
designed to distinguish the two components (the issue is currently beingaddressed). Remaining Balances in the joint category "National Project Management-LocalCapacity Building" are
evenly split into categories "National Project Management"and "Community Capacity Building."

The total amount of the original IDA credit is higher than the approved amount due to the strong depreciation of the US Dollar. An exchange rate of SDRI=US$1.64664 has been used.
The onginal allocation presented here takes into accounts reallmtions of funds occured since 2003.




                                                                                         12

                                          APPENDIX I1

                             KEY PERFORMANCEINDICATORS


42. Access to basic public infrastructure and services in the targeted communities i s one o f the
most important goals o f the PRFP.Incycles Ito IV (February 2003 to June 2007), the PRFP led
to significant developments o f road networks, schools, waterhanitation and health facilities,
allocating US$12.9 million to sub-grants for infrastructure and training activities. Between
February 2003 and June 2007, the PRFP built 354 schools, 50 bridges, 31 health dispensaries,
1,012 water supplies, 119 irrigation schemes, and upgraded 2,420 km o f roads, covering 1,880
villages and 744,140 people in 21 o f the 72 poor districts in 5 provinces. The PRF i s currently
finishing the implementation o f Cycle V, where it plans to allocate an additional US$3.7 million
among 307 sub-projects. Given these past figures, under the additional phase (cycle VI to VIII)
for the period up to September 2011, US$13.2 million are expected to be devoted to more than
1,500 sub-projects covering 19 "first priority" districts, 1,640 villages, and 593,798 people. Inall
these villages, the PRFP will also support community and local government empowerment
activities with an amount equal to U S 3 . 1 million (see the Project description for more details).

43. Given the demand-driven nature o f the Project, it i s difficult to estimate exactly the actual
number and type o f sub-projects to be delivered, and to define a specific target to be achieved in
the next three years. The core o f the PRFP consists of a participatory planning process leading to
a competitive selection o f sub-projects at the koumban level by community representatives.
Because o f this demand-driven nature o f the PRFP, setting targets in a traditional manner, even
for quantitatively measurable indicators, would be unsuited to appraise the PRFP's
accomplishments. Expansion o f the PRFP into new districts firther exacerbates the complexity o f
deriving concrete predictions. Nonetheless, given the importance o f targets to measure
performance, where possible targets are specified to measure the PRFP's expected achievements
in the additional three years o f operation. Specified thresholds were drawn either from the
achievements from the previous phase serving as the baseline, estimates from the national
representative survey, or targets adopted in similar projects within the East Asia and Pacific
(EAP) region. Because empowerment is a process that requires significant investments over a
long period, a few indicators are intentionally left without specific target, expecting the figures
obtained at the end o f cycle VI11to serve as an important reference point for the future operation.

44. Besides adding training activities as part o f the objectives, the Project Development
Objectives remain substantially unchanged as they are in line with the Government's NGPES.
However, as appraisal found that many indicators selected for Cycles Ito V are no longer suited
to appropriately assess the PRFP performance, a new set o f indicators and targets have been
developed. The Table below highlights the changes in indicators. In what follows, outcome
indicators refer primarily to poverty and empowerment measurements, and will be assessed
mostly inthe final Outcome Assessment reports (see Appendix I11for more details).

45. Performance benchmarks duringthe Project period will also be used to ensure that the PRFP
proceeds accordingly to its principles and procedures and that inputs are efficiently transformed
into targeted outputs to achieve the long-term Project Development Objectives. The PRFP's
progress in delivering the specified outputs will mostly be monitored annually by the internal
Management Information System (MIS) and reportedinthe Annual Report.




                                                  13

1 1n
   3


.9
m   **
     D




      0    0    0

a
B

' u 3
0  0




?-

         c




              W
              3


Notes

1N o target i s specified for the "number o f students per teacher," as PRF currently does not have data from
which to set criteria. The data collected on a randombasis will serve as the baseline for the next phase.

2  Prior results from the study indicate distinct differences in poverty levels and progress with
community/district capacity building inNorthern and Southern regions. Thus, for each type o f sub-project,
the sample will be selected randomly from the list o f PRFP sub-projects from Northern and Southern
regions separately.

  The target was calibrated from the estimated figures from LECS 2004. Net enrollment rates among
primary school-aged children (6-10) inrural area with road access was 74% and 53% inrural areas without
access to road. The figure i s set slightly higher.

4 A "minimum package o f health services" for PRFP health facilities is adopted and modified from the
MOH's Minimumand Complementary Package o f Services to better assess the quality o f services provided
insmall-scale dispensaries locatedinpoor andremote areas. The standardis set as follows:

         -- Has trained healthpersonnel to provide service with minimumo f secondary school education;
            Provides preventive and curative services (e.g., appropriate use o f drug kits, distribution o f de-

         - Maintains minimum
            worming medication and contraceptives);
                                  o f 4 essential drugs inthe drug kit (out o f a list o f 22 medicines);
         - Has capacity to serve all residing villagers.

 The M I S for cycles Ito IV reveals an increased number o f allocated projects which were not identified by
villagers during meetings at village level (VNPA) but by their representatives during meetings at koumban
(inpresence o f the koumban committee) and district (inpresence o f the district authorities) levels during
the prioritization process. The PRF shall monitor the trend ensuring that a significant proportion o f sub-
projects are coming directly from the VNPA process at village level.

 6 The target was adopted from the Indonesia Kecamatan Development Project 3B (2005), as there i s no
baseline data available for the PRFP.

7 Inprinciple, all sub-projects musthave O&M plans designed uponsubmission o fproposals at the District
Prioritization Meetings.

8 A small random sample exercise conduced in October 2007 revealed that 52 % of PRFP health facilities
and 76 % o f primary schools were recorded inthe official MOH and MOE books.

9 The Operations Manual states that out o f three village priorities, at least two should come from the
women's list.

lo Regulation specified inthe Operations Manual.




                                                         20

                                          APPENDIX I11

                                REPORTINGARRANGEMENTS



46. The PRFP has a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system that includes both
quantitative and qualitative evaluations. The quantitative Project evaluation to measure
achievement o f targeted outcomes will be based on the PRF's Management Information System
(MIS) and reported in the Quarterly and Annual Reports. In addition, independent external
Project evaluations will also be conducted to complement the internal evaluation. Inparticular,
there will be four Outcome Assessments:      (1) A Technical Assessment evaluating the quality o f
completed infrastructure; (ii)   A Beneficiary Satisfaction and Utilization Assessment appraising
progress in terms o f increased access to quality public goods and services; (iii)AnAssessment of
Capacity Building of Local Institutions to evaluate the progress in establishing sustainable
participatory approaches; and (iv) An Assessment of Participatory Approaches at the Community
Level, possibly comparing the PRFP's approach with approaches o f programs with similar
objectives, such as the UNCDFDistrict Development Fund.

47. The integration o f internal quantitative monitoring and external qualitative assessments will
allow the PRF to reach more comprehensive conclusions as well as understanding in greater
depth the reasons or dynamics behind the observed outcomes. An annual Auditing Report will
also be conducted by an external consulting firm.

48. Reporting requirements for the World Bank and SDC will be harmonized. Inparticular, since
the PRF has a robust financial management system that has been operating for more than five
years, both IDA and SDC financing will use the same financial reporting arrangements. The same
set o f audit terms o f reference will also be used. An annual audit encompassing both sources o f
financing will be contained inone report with one audit opinion issued. SDC may request for any
additional audit ifit foresees the need. Delivery dates for the major reports and assessments are as
follows:




Quarterly Report                                    February 28t", M a y 31 August 3lst,
                                                    November 30' o f each year
Annual Audit Report                                 March 3lSt  o f eachyear
Assessment o f ParticipatoryApproaches at the       October 3lst, 2009
Community Level
Technical Assessment                                February 28*, 2010
Beneficiary Satisfaction and Utilization            November 30th,2010
Assessment
Assessment o f Capacity Buildingo f Local           November 30th, 2010
Institutions




                                                 21

                                          APPENDIX IV

                                FIDUCIARY ARRANGEMENTS

49. Assessment of financial management arrangements. The aim o f the assessment was to
determine whether the PRF (responsible for the implementation o f the additional financing) as
structured at central, provincial and district level has adequate FM arrangements in place to
implement the expanded activities and meet the minimum requirements stipulated in
OP/BP10.02. The arrangements assessed included the unit's system o f planning and budgeting,
accounting, accountability mechanisms put in place at community level, reporting, auditing, and
internal controls. The unit's arrangements are deemed as acceptable if they are considered
capable of recording correctly all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular
and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the PRF assets, and are subject to auditing
arrangements acceptable to the World Bank and its partners financing the Project. The PRF
intends to apply the same financial management and disbursement arrangements for both the IDA
Grant and resources made available by SDC.

50. The current financial management and disbursement arrangements for the PRF were assessed
as adequate to handle the financial transactions o f the PRFP Additional Financing. The Project
has been regularly supervised by FM staff, with the last supervision takmg place in December
2007. In addition the Project was included as part o f the portfolio-wide Financial Transactions
Review. The necessary changes required to update the Project's Financial and Administration
manual to reflect the additional financing have been largely completed. The Manual will be
updated to capture changes in fiduciary arrangements due to the new source o f funding (SDC).

51. To strengthen monitoring o f compliance with documented procedures, an agreement has been
reached to pilot an internal audit department which i s expected to be operating within one year o f
the additional financing becoming effective (further revisions to the manual will be needed at this
time). Further revisions to the Manual will also be needed following the introduction o f
performance indicators for every position in the PRF (still in progress), whereby each job
description will have a minimumo f three performance indicatorsperjob profile. The inclusion o f
indicators for the Head o f Finance and the Accountant will promote transparency inperformance
assessments.

52. Financial management risks. The FM risk rating o f the Additional Financing is, due to
inherent risks, substantial before mitigating measures are taken, but moderate after the measures.
The substantial risk arises from the weak control environment in the country and low capacity.
This is exacerbated by the fact that the Project operates at community level where capacity levels
are very low. External audit i s weak and internal audit i s non existent. The mitigating measures at
country level include implementation o f various reforms in Public Financial Management under
the Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program. Additional measures (beyond those
already being implemented in the Project) include the pilot introduction o f an internal audit
department, additional training inWorld Bank financial management rules to new staff, and close
supervision o f the Project as additional financing comes on stream aimed at addressing any new
risks and assessing the effectiveness o f existing riskmitigation measures.

53. Disbursement arrangements. Disbursements from the remaining IDA Credit and the IDA
Grant will be from the Designated Account with reimbursements made based on full
documentation and against Statements o f Expenditure (SOE). The remaining Credit and proposed




                                                 22

Grant will be disbursed against the Project components shown in the Allocation o f Credit and
Grant Proceeds:


                                   Allocation of Credit and Grant Proceeds




Village Sub-project Grants                       18,335,880        8,374,200   100          64

Consultant's Services (a. Audit Services)            50,880           54,000   100          100
Consultant's Services (b. Others)                3,175,230         3,766,000   100          100
Goods                                              419,760          515,400    100          100
Works                                               108,120          100,000   100          100
IncrementalOperating Costs                        1,466,926        1,974,400   100
PPF Expenditures                                   310,694  . ....             100
Training                                           459,510          216,000    100          100



54. Use of statements of expenditures (SOE). Some o f the proceeds o f the remaining IDA
Credit and the proposed IDA Grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis o f Statements o f
Expenditure for (i)       Contracts for goods costing US$50,000 or less equivalent per contract; (ii)
Contracts for works costing US$25,000 or less equivalent per contract; (iii)Contracts with
consulting firms valued at US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less per contract and US$50,000 equivalent
per contract for individual consultants; and (iv) Incrementaloperating costs.

55. Disbursements for services and goods exceeding the above limits will be made in accordance
with respective procurement guidelines and provisions in the Financing Agreement against
submission o f full documentation and signed contracts. The documentation supporting SOE
disbursements will be retained by the Poverty Reduction Fund during the life o f the Project and
one year after the receipt o f the audit report for the last year in which the last disbursement was
made. These documents will be made available for review by the auditors and IDA supervision
missions. The SOE documents will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. Should the auditors or IDA supervision missions find that disbursements have been made
that are not justified by supporting documentation, or are ineligible, IDA will have the right to
withhold further deposits to the Designated Account. IDA may exercise this right until the
Borrower has refunded the amount involved or (if IDA agrees) has submitted evidence o f other
eligible expenditures that offset the ineligible amounts.

56. Designated account. To facilitate timely Project implementation and disbursement, the PRF
has established and currently operates a Segregated Designated Account (DA) at the Central
Bank o f Lao PDR, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA including appropriate protection
against set off, seizure and attachments. The account i s denominated in U S dollars. The DAY
which covers the IDA share o f eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, will have an
authorized allocation o f US$1.5 million. The DA should be replenished on a monthly basis to
assure liquidity o f funds or when the account i s drawn down by 20 percent o f the initial deposit,
whichever comes first. All replenishment applications will be accompanied by reconciled bank
statements from the depository bank showing all transactions in the DA. The DA will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable IDA.




                                                      23

57. Coordination with Development Partners. There i s a strong desire for Development
Partners to cooperate so as to minimize the transaction costs on the Government, nevertheless
there i s a requirement that the disbursement and financial management arrangements are such that
funds advanced by the World Bank can be accounted for by the PRFP implementation team. For
the PRF this requires that the Project i s able to submit Withdrawal Applications to the World
Bank which show, at a transaction level, the share o f costs to be financed by the World Bank.
Whilst there i s no technical barrier to the Project operating a system o f pooled bank accounts
(whereby all sources o f fknding were commingled in the same account) this would then require
the Project to be able to reconcile the balances on the accounts by source o f funding (so as to
satisfy the bank requirements for a reconciliation o f funds advanced). The current FM systems,
including the capacity o f staff, do not provide for the operation o f such virtual accounts within the
same bank account and therefore at the start o f the additional financing mirrored bank accounts
would be maintained so as to distinguish the source o f financing. This arrangement will mean
that the volume o f transactions will increase but each development partner would be assured as to
how funds have been used. Maintaining separated accounts however represents a temporary
solution. The PRF will actively seek to improve its financial management capacity and its
financial management software to be able to move towards pooled accounts, which will make it
easier to manage multiple financing sources. As the implementation progresses the arrangements
will be reviewedso as to establish whether a pooled account canbe used.




                                                  24

                                          APPENDIXV

                             PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS


A. General

58. Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004, revised
October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, revised October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal
Agreements. For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the Government's procurement
procedures as provided in Decree 0 3 D M dated January 9, 2004, and in the Implementing Rules
and Regulations (IRR) dated March 12, 2004, will be followed subject to the improvements listed
in the NCB-Annex to the legal agreement. The appropriate Standard Bidding Documents
developed by the Procurement Monitoring Office, Ministry o f Finance, will be used for
procurement o f goods and works under N C B and Shopping, subject to IDA'Sprior concurrence.
For International Competitive Bidding(ICB), IDA's Standard BiddingDocuments shall be used.
The complaints handling mechanism specified in the Government's IRR will be followed and
also incorporated in the bidding documents. Contract award information shall be made publicly
available in accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines in a format agreed with IDA. The
general descriptions o f various items under different expenditure category are described below.
For each contract to be financed by the IDA Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank Project team in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect the actual Project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

59. Procurement of Works. Works procured under this Project would include: office renovation
at national, provincial and district offices, small scale infrastructure for sub-project grants under
Component A (such as access and transportation infrastructure; schools and nurseries; clinics;
community halls and other public building; communal water supply systems or structures;
community electrical supply and local markets). Contracts for these works costing US$300,000 or
more each would be procured through International Competitive Bidding(ICB). Works estimated
to cost less than US$300,000 per contract may be procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) method and the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in
the Decree 03/PM dated January 9, 2004, and in the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR)
dated March 12, 2004, including national standard bidding document with IDA'S prior
concurrence, will be followed subject to the improvements listed inthe NCB-Annex to the Legal
Agreement. Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured through
Shopping method and the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in the
aforesaid Decree and IRR. Small scale infrastructure for sub-project grant under Component A o f
the Project, estimated to cost less than US$30,000, meeting the criteria in the Project Operation
Manual may be procured through Community Participation in Procurement method as stipulated
inthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines and described inthe Project Procurement Manual. Works
under the sub-project grant, including electrification works and water and sanitation works, that
are o f the proprietary nature or obtainable from one source, may, with the IDA'Sprior agreement
be procuredinaccordance with the provision o f paragraph 3.6 o f the Procurement Guidelines.




                                                25

60. Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder this Project would include: office equipment,
vehicles, computer, and furniture for national, provincial and district office and goods for sub-
project grants under component A. Contract for goods costing US$lOO,OOO or more each would
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO per contract may be procured through NCB method and the procedures, including
standard bidding documents, set forth in the Decree 03PM dated January 9, 2004, and in the
Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) dated March 12, 2004, including national standard
bidding document with IDA'Sprior concurrence, will be followed subject to the improvements
listed in the NCB-Annex to the Legal Agreement. Goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000
per contract may be procured through Shopping method and the procedures, including standard
biddingdocuments, set forth inthe aforesaid Decree and IRR.Goods, including school books for
sub-project grant or software, that are o f the proprietary nature or obtainable from one source,
may, with the IDA'Sprior agreement, be procured inaccordance with the provision o f paragraph
3.6 o f the Procurement Guidelines.

61. Selection of Consultants. Consultant services are expected in the following areas: financial
audits, technical advisor and Project staff support. These services would be procured through
various selection methods including Quality and Cost Based Selection, Least Cost Selection,
Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications, Single Source Selection and Individual Consultant
depending on the value, nature and complexity o f the consultant assignments. The use o f the
method i.e. Single Source Selection for specific assignments would be subject to prior review and
clearance with the Bank in the Procurement Plan. However, Quality and Cost Based Selection
would generally be the applicable method for each contract estimated to cost more than USD
100,000 equivalent. Individual Consultants may be selected in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 o f the Consultants Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in
paragraph 5.4 o f the Consultant Guidelines, such contract may be awarded to individual
consultant on a sole-source basis, subject to the prior approval o f the Bank.

B. Assessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

62. An IDA procurement accredited staff carried out a procurement capacity assessment during
the project preparation in September, 2007 and February 2008. Since the first year o f PRFP
implementation inyear 2002, until2008, the Poverty Reduction FundOffice (PRFO) inVientiane
was fully responsible for procurement for national, provincial and district offices and had overall
responsibility for the implementation o f village sub-project grant. Vehicles, offices equipment,
furniture and renovation o f office were procured at PRFO in Vientiane for the use in national,
provincial and district level. There was one procurement officer to handle procurement which was
only a few NCB and Shopping. Post review o f procurement at national level did not reveal any
substantial deviation fi-om the Bank's required procedures. The capacity o f PRFO to handle
procurement at national level was sufficient as there were not so many packages o f procurement.

63. For the sub-project grant implemented since Cycle I- year 2003, the village implementation
team was responsible for procurement activities. The Technical Advisors (up to one person per
district, based in the province), initially all civil engineers were (i)advising villagers on how to

through participation o f local communities or when appropriate, community - managed shopping
determine the most efficient and effective method for construction and procurement (e.g. either

to a private construction firm(s); (ii)assisting villagers to manage their own construction or to
supervise works undertaken by a contractor; (iii)supervising local facilitators in contract
supervision, village implementation or management o f construction, procurement o f equipment
and materials etc.; (iv) Project reporting on technical progress and problems and the certification
o f completed works. One procurement staff was assigned at PRFO inVientiane to coordinate and


                                                  26

oversee implementation o f the sub-project grant in the participating provinces. Procurement was
done once a year on a cycle basis (now procurement under Cycle V was just completed). Post
reviews were conducted in Champassack, Savannakhet, Saravane and Huaphanh provinces since
the first cycle and found a similar problem that the villages' team did not keep proposals o f
unsuccessful bidders for the Bank`% post review. After having provided recommendations and
followed up with post reviews inthe same provinces inthe next cycle, all provinces improved the
filing and compliedwiththe Bank's requirement, and findings are satisfactory untilnow.

64. The proposed Poverty Reduction Fund Project - Additional Financing will expand the
financing to cover 6 provinces (Huaphanh, Luang Namtha, Savannakhet, Xiengkhouang,
Saravane and Champassack) from Cycle VI starting July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009. There will be
some improvements to the organizational structure at national, provincial and district level which
would be beneficial to the implementation o f the Project and improvement on the procurement
documents and procedures as follow:

         One Procurement Officer each will be recruited in all 6 Provincial PRF Team to directly
         oversee and follow up procurement o f the villages. This person will supplement the
         existing provincial technical advisors. The Bank procurement staff in Bangkok and
         Vientiane Offices will provide training to PRF Procurement Officers to ensure that they
         understand the procurement process for the sub-project grant and they would be able to
         oversee the procurement process by the villages' team.
         The PRFO in Vientiane will maintain at least two procurement staff for procurement at
         national level and for the sub-project grant at villages' level, to coordinate, to provide
         training and to oversee the procurement officers at provincial level.
         The use o f the Government's NCB and Shopping documents i s subject to IDA'Sprior
         concurrence and provided that the provisions o f NCB Annex are followed in conducting
         procurement under NCB method. The NCB Annex i s attached with this Procurement
         Arrangements and with the Financing Agreement. The Government o f Lao PDR's
         Standard Bidding Documents October 2007 for Procurement o f Goods and Works, and
         Standard Request for Quotations for Goods and Works will replace the existing
         procurement documents for N C B and Shopping, respectively, with changes made to
         incorporate the provisions o f the NCB-Annex and further              improvements for
         strengthening transparency and accountability in procurement. As there i s a change on
         the format o f procurement documents, training will also be provided by the Bank's
         procurement staff.
         An Internal Auditor will be recruitedinCycle VI1(Year 2009) at PRFO inVientiane.

65. With the existing capacity o f PRFO, the improvement o f the organizational structure, and the
use o f and extensive training on strengthened procurement procedures and procurement
documents, the procurement riskunder the Project i s determined to be "Moderate."

C. Bank'sProcurementReviewRequirements

66. The following contracts shall be subject to the World Bank's prior review in accordance with
the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines:

     1. The first NCB and the first Shopping contract for procurement o f goods and works at
        national level.
     2. The first contract for goods and works under sub-project grant of each province in each
        year.



                                                27

     3.  All contracts for goods andworks procuredthrough ICB andDirect Contracting.
     4. Each contract for consultants' services provided by a firm estimated to cost the
         equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more,
     5. Each contract for the employment o f individual consultants estimated to cost the
         equivalent o f US$50,000 or more,
     6. Each contract involving Single-Source Selection o f firms or individual consultants,
         irrespective o f value.

67. All other contracts shall be subject to post review by IDA, and will also include checks for
transparency in the procurement process and verification o f end-use deliveries, in addition to
verification o f compliance with the agreed procurement procedures. The percentage to apply to
the sample for ex-post review will be 20%.

68. Frequency of Supervision. Inaddition to the prior review, the assessment o f the capacity o f
the Project Implementing Agencies recommended that procurement supervision missions
includingpost review will be conducted at least twice per year.

69. Short lists composed entirely of national consultants. Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.

D. Procurement Plan

70. National Level Procurement. The Recipient has developed a procurement plan for three
years after Effectiveness o f the Project Additional Financing for national level procurement,
which is attached inthis Annex and provides the basis for the procurement methods. These plans
have been agreed between the Recipient and the Project Team and are available at Prime Minister
Office, National Leading Board for Rural Development & Poverty Alleviation. They will also be
available in the Project's website and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will
be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
Project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

71. Sub-project Grant Procurement. Given the nature o f the small value contracts for goods
and works to be procured at the village level under sub-project grant, the activities will be on a
demand-driven basis which will be identified and prioritized based on actual needs o f the
beneficiaries in Annual PRF Working Process prepared at the districts. When the beneficiaries
and their needs are identified, the activities will be reflected in an annual procurement plan for
sub-project grants to be provided to the IDA. The procurement packages are generally expected
to be for sub-projects such as access and transportation infi-astructure; schools and nurseries;
clinics; community halls and other public building; communal water supply systems or structures;
community electrical supply and local markets. The budget o f each individual sub-project can
not exceed US$30,000 if it i s implemented at village or koumban level (or US$60,000 for inter
koumban sub-projects). Therefore, the procurement methods for the sub-project grant to be
identified in annual procurement plan shall be (i)procurement o f works and goods estimated to
cost less than $30,000 shall be "Shopping method" to be implemented by the village team; and
(ii)procurement o f goods and works estimated to cost more than $30,000 shall be "NCB method"
to be implemented by PRFO in Vientiane. The koumban`s Procurement Team prepares the
procurement documents with the assistance o f PRF procurement staff inprovincial offices and in
the National Office. Details o f the process will be provided inthe Project Procurement Manual.


                                                  28

E.Detailsofthe procurementplan

3-year ProcurementPlan Poverty ReductionFundProject-AdditionalFinancing
                            -
I-GoodsandCivilWorks:

YEAR2008

                                                                        Review    Expected
Ref    Contract      Estimated Procurement       Pre-       Domestic    byBank      Bid       Corn
No.  (Description)  Costs(US$)   Method     qua'ification
                                             (Yes/No)       Preference  (Prior /  Opening     ments
                                                            (Yesrno)     post)      Date




1   1Minibus 12     25,000     Shopping    No              No          Prior     Novo8     Bank
    seats (National                                                                        prior
    Office)                                                                                review =
                                                                                           first
                                                                                           shopping
                                                                                           contract.


Contract #2                            us$80,000

1   4 vehicles 4x4  80,000     NCB         No              No          Prior      Dec 08   Bank
    pickup, diesel                                                                         prior
    engine                                                                                 review =
                                                                                           first NCB.


Contract #3                             US$62,500

1   25Heavy         62,500     NCB         No              No          Post      Nov 08
    motorcycles,
    offroad, 125cc




                                            29

                                                                                                    I
Contract#4                                       US$94,600

        39 Desktop          58,500
        computers
        (including printer,
        UPS & software)'
                            20,000
        computers
        (including
        software)                       NCB               No               No             Post      Nov 08

3       8 NetworWcolor      12,000
        printers'
4       7 scanners          2,100

5       1Network set,       2,000
        cabling & switches


Contract#5                                       US$29,950

1       6 Photocopiers        15,000

2       20 Fax machines       6,000

3       1Communication        2,000
        system, switch,
        cabling
4       14wireless desktou    2,100
        Phones
5       15 Phonesets          450


        calculator(with
                                        Shopping          No               No             Post       Dec 08
                              2,300
        engineering
        calculator


Contract#6                                       US$8,550

1       22 cameras, digital 6,600                                          ~




        8MP

        1digital video
        camera                                            No               No


        microphones
4       15 megaphones       750



Contract#7                                      US$2,500

1       1videoprojector     2,000
        includingscreen
2       l T V + D V D       500         Shopping
        Player                                           No               No                        Nov 08




' This line includesone computerwith specificationsallowing the productionof IEC tools.
2 This line includesone DeskJetcolour printer (A3) with specificationsallowing the productionof IEC tools


                                                        30

Each of the following rows correspond to a separate contract

    5 Air conditioner  9,000        Shopping     No             No           Post

    Furniture: 1       5,000        Shopping     No             No           Post
    nationalset
    (complementI
    renewal)
    Furniture:5        5,000        Shopping     No             No           Post
    provincial sets
     (complementI
    renewal)                                                                                   I
    Furniture: 14      7,000        Shopping     No             No           Post     Dec 08   I
    district sets
     (complementI                                                                    I
    renewal)
    Office small        1,500       Shopping     No             No           Post    Nov 08
    equipment: 1
    nitidnal set
    Office small       2,500        Shopping     No             No           Post
    equipment: 5
    provincial sets
    Office small       2,800        Shopping     No             No           Post
    equipment: 14                                                                    7-
    district sets
    CivilWork: 1       48,000       Shopping     No             No           Prior   Nov 08
    nationalset



Total Procurement of goods and civil works for Year 2008 =US$383,900

YEAR2009

                                                                            Review    Expected
Ref      Contract       Estimated   Procurement      Pre-        Domestic   byBank       Bid    Com
No.    (Description)   Costs (US$)    Method     qua'ification
                                                  (Yesmo)        Preference (Prior /  Opening   ments
                                                                 (Yesrno)    post)      Date

Contract# 1                                US$60,000

1   40 Light          60,000      NCB           No              NO          Post     Jan 09         ~




    motorcycles,
    100-12 5 ~ ~


Contract# 2                                 US$59,500

    2 Laptop           4,000
    computers
    (including
    software)
                                   NCB
    37 Desktop         55,500
    computers                                   No              No
    (includingprinter,
    UPS & software)




                                               31

                                                    7
Each of the followingrows correspondto a separatecontract

1    3 vehicles 4x4        60,000        NCB
     pickup, diesel                                                 7-
     engine
2    CivilWork:            52,000         Shopping                  Prior   Feb09         1different procurement
     Upgradeof new                                                                        process per location(each
     offices at district                                                                  procurement< US$ 10,000)
     andprovincial
     level (moving
     from MPIto



Total Procurementof goods for Year 2009 =US$231,500

11-Consultants

YEAR 2008

 Ref     Description of            cost           Selection   Bank Review        Expected              Comments
 No.       Assignment               6)            Method                         Proposals
                                                                               Submission
1     Annual Financial        45,000          CQSILCS        Post             Dec 08                     3-yearbudget
      Audit                                                                                              I-year contract
                                                                                                        with     annual



YEAR 2009
-
1     159national        3,265,000                            Jan 09            3-yearbudget
      contracted                                                                 1-year contracts with annual extension
                                    Consultant                                  basedonperformance
                                                                                Maximum cost / individual contract =
                                                                                US$70,000 for 3 years (at the exception
                                                                                of the contract of the ExecutiveDirector
                                                                                who is paid by PRFP but recruited by
                                                                                the GoL)
                                                                                Prior review by the bank only for newly
                                                                                contracted consultants taking a key
                                                                                position (Heads of Unit, Provincial
-                                                                               Coordinators).
2     Assessment         40,000                               Aug 09      Fieldwork to be conductedin October2009
      on                            Individual
      Participatory                 Consultant
      Approach at
      Community
-     Level
3     Technical          40,000                               Dec 09       Field work to be conducted in February2010
      Assessment                    Individual



YEAR 2010

1     Beneficiary             40,000          Selection of   Prior            Sept 10           Field   work    to   be
      Satisfaction and                        Individual                                        conducted in November
      Utilization                             Consultant                                        2010
      Assessment
2    Assessment on            40,000          Selectionof    Prior            Sept 10           Field   work    to   be
      Capacity Building                       Individual                                        conducted in November
      of Local Institutions                   Consultant                                        2010




                                                          32

F.NationalCompetitiveBiddingProcedures

72. Bidding documents and contracts under national competitive biddingprocedures financed by
the Association shall include a provision requiring suppliers contractors and their subcontractors
to permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and
the performance o f the supplier andor contractor, as the case may be, and to have them audited
by auditors appointed by the Association, if so required by the Association. The deliberate and
material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor o f such provision may amount to
obstructive practice.

73. Immediately after completion o f the bid opening proceedings, a copy o f the bid opening
record shall be posted at a prominent location, accessible to the public, outside the office o f the
concerned procuring entity and shall be retained at the same location until the award o f contract
has been notified. A copy o f the bid opening record shall be provided to all bidders who
submittedbids.

74. The Recipient shall publishthe following information on contract award on a free or open
access website when it becomes operational or on another means o f publication acceptable to the
Association: (i) name o f each bidder who submitted a bid; (ii)bid prices as read out at bid
opening; (iii) and evaluated price o f each bid that was evaluated; (iv) name o f bidders
              name
whose bid were rejected and the reasons for rejection; (v) name o f the winning bidder, contract
price, explanation if it i s different that bid price as well as the duration and summary scope o f the
contract awarded; and (vi) contract variation orders. This publication shall be updated quarterly.

75. The eligibility o f bidders shall be as defined under section Io f the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in October 2006;
accordingly, a firm or individual previously declared ineligible by the Association based on
determination by the Association that this firm or individual has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive, coercive or obstructive practices shall be declared ineligible to be awarded a contract
financed by Association.

76. The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association and the Recipient, if it at any time
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, an
Association-financed contract.




                                                    33




