                                                                                                            94587
                                                                                                      September 29, 2009



                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in India


                                                                 More on India:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




Despite recent unprecedented economic growth, India still faces a big challenge in fighting
poverty. Its population of 1.2 billion has a per-person income of less than US$1,000. About two-
thirds of the population depends on rural employment to make a living, yet educational
opportunities and access are uneven at best and marked by wide regional disparities. By 2000,
some 39 million of 200 million children aged 6–14—or almost 20 percent—were not being
schooled.




In 2002, India unveiled its national flagship program, the IDA-financed Elementary Education
Project (Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, SSA), to enroll all 6–14-year-olds in school by 2010. It also
aimed to bridge gender and social gaps, avoid dropouts, and provide quality education until at
least grade eight—a much tougher requirement by 2015 than called for by the Millennium
Development Goals. Primary school facilities were to be located within one kilometer of all
habitations, including provision of alternative education programs and “bridge courses” for out-of-
school children and dropouts. The program supported teacher recruitment and training, helped
develop teaching materials, and monitored learning outcomes. Villages were to identify out-of-
school children and get them enrolled, and organize to manage school resources and construct
classrooms and school buildings. Direct grants to each district helped spur context-specific
innovations.




Since 2001, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan has supported Government efforts to bring 20
million out-of-school children into elementary education. This includes first-generation
learners from long-deprived communities and minority communities, and children with
special needs.


Highlights:
- Universal access is almost achieved, with more than 98 percent of children having a primary
school within one kilometer of home and many states either approaching universal primary
enrollment or having already achieved it.


- The gender gap continues to shrink, with 93 girls enrolled for every 100 boys in primary
school in 2008, compared to 90 in the early 2000s.
- Real progress has been made on inclusion. Public school enrollment of children from long-
deprived communities—Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes—now exceeds their shares in
the general population. Of the 2.7 million children identified with special needs, 2.5 million were
enrolled by 2008.


- Higher quality yielded better transition rates between school levels. In 2007, 84 percent of
primary school graduates went on to upper-primary school, compared with 75 percent in 2002.


- Retaining first-generation learners in school is a major challenge, but annual dropout rates
fell from 10 percent in 2004 to 8.6 percent in 2008.


- A paradigm shift in teaching methods was pioneered in Tamil Nadu. In just two years, the
activity-based learning (ABL) method was scaled up across the state’s 37,500 primary and
12,000 upper-primary schools. Several states now are adapting the innovations. Activity-based
learning lets children learn at their own pace by working together in small groups to complete a
“ladder” of highly structured and sequenced tasks, helping each other construct their knowledge
rather than memorizing and reciting lessons by rote.




The Indian government–led program is supported by a multidonor effort. IDA is the single largest
donor, contributing US$500 million of the US$3.5 billion total cost for the project’s first phase
(SSA I, from 2004 to 2007). During the second phase (SSA II, from 2008 to 2010), IDA is
providing US$600 million of the approximately US$7.2 billion total cost. A further IDA
commitment of US$500 million in Additional Financing is planned for 2010. In addition, the World
Bank Group is committed to efforts to improve learning outcomes and ensure strong independent
monitoring and evaluation of educational projects worldwide, sharing lessons from other efforts
with this one and bringing lessons from SSA to other interested parties.




The European Commission (EC) and the United Kingdom’s Department for International
Development (DFID) together contributed over US$500 million to the first phase, while India’s
central and state governments contributed the lion’s share—some US$2.5 billion. In phase two,
the Indian government is investing more than US$6 billion, while the EC and DFID together are
contributing almost $400 million. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is also very
active in some of the poorest Indian states, helping education departments implement the
Elementary Education Project at state and district levels. IDA, the DFID, the European
Commission, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
and UNICEF also collaborate in major fora to share best practices from other countries and India
that support improved educational quality and teacher effectiveness.




With SSA having made great strides in increasing access to primary education, the focus is now
on bringing the remaining 10 million out-of-school children into school, boosting provision of
upper-primary educational facilities, and improving learning outcomes. And now that greater
numbers of children are completing elementary school, the number of secondary schools
urgently needs expanding and their educational quality raised.
Elementary Education Project (SSA), (2004–07) | Elementary Education Project (SSA II), (2008–10)




                                                       Last updated: 2009-09-29
