Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4198
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAG/CREDIT 525-MAG)
November 24, 1982
Operations Evaluation Deoartment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADTPA                - Air Dried Ton per Annum
CTFT                 - Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
FMG                  - Franc Malgache
FOFIFA/CENDRADERU   - Center for Agricultural Research and
Rural Development
FANALAMANGA         - Mangoro Forest Company (mixed-capital company,
currently 100% state owned)
MAI                  - Mean Annual Increment
OPS                  - Operations Policy Staff of the World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAG, CREDIT 525-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ............................................................
Basic Data Sheet ...................................................            i
Highlights ............         .............................................  iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT' MEMORANDUM
I.    PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................            1
Il. MAIN ISSUES .................,                                           4
A.   Tree Growth ..........................................            4
B.   Bank Involvement in the Mangoro Forestry Development..           6
C.  Additional Observations ..............................            9
Annex 1 - Comments from the Department of Forestry and Fishing
Research ...............................................           il
Annex 2 - Comments from the Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform ........................................           17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR'r
I.    Introduction .............................................           25
II.    Pre-project Developments .................................           29
III.    Implementation ...........................................           38
IV.    Operating Performance ....................................           52
V.    Institutional Performance and Development ....          ............  53
VI.    Bank Performance .........................................           55
VII.    Environmental Impact .....................................           57
VIII.    Financial and Economic Reevaluation ......................           58
IX.    Conclusions ..............................................           59
Annexes    1-6
Maps       IBRD 15266 (PCR)    Mangoro Forestry Project
IBRD 15290 (PCR) Project Location
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorId Bank authorization.






-i-
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAG, CREDIT 525-MAG)
PREFACE
This is a project performance audit report of the (first) Mangoro
forestry project in Madagascar for which Loan 1065-MAG in the amount of
US$6.75 million and Credit 525-MAG in the amount of US$6.75 million were
approved in December 1974.    The final credit disbursement was made in Decem-
ber 1978 and the loan account was closed in April 1982 after cancellation of
the undisbursed balance of US$8,838 and after the by one year extended Closing
Date of December 31, 1981.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report (PCR)
dated April 7, 1982.     The PCR was prepared by the Eastern Africa Regional
Office.   The audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report
(590-MAG) dated December 6, 1974, the President's Report (P-1539-MAG) of
December 5, 1974, and the Loan and Credit Agreements dated December 23, 1974.
Correspondence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project issues
as contained in relevant Bank files as well as documentation related to the
follow-on project (Second Mangoro Forestry Project, Credit 1161-MAG, US$20
million) have also been consulted and Bank staff associated with the project
have been interviewed.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on September 2,
1982.   Comments received from the Goverament of Madagascar are attached as
Annexes 1 and 2.
The audit finds that the PCR adequately covers the project's salient
features, and the PPAM generally agrees with the conclusions. Some controver-
sial points need to be raised, however, concerning the timely estimation of
tree growth and the Bank's involvement in the Mangoro forestry development.
These issues, as well as a few other points, selected for their relevance for
the follow-on and similar projects, are therefore elaborated on in the PPAM to
underscore ootential lessons for the Bank Group.






- il -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAC, CREDIT 525-MAG)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal             Actual Estimate
Item                                                (US$ m)   (FMG m)         (US$ =)   (FMG m)
Total Project Cost                                             17.2      4,000            20.2     4,601
I Cost Overrun                                                                                  17%
% Physical Overrun at Completion                                                                35%
Loan/Credit Amount                                             13.-/a                   Fully disbursed
Date Physical Components Complete4b                            December 1979            June 30, 1979
Proportion of Time Underrun                                                                     10%
Economie Rate of Return                                        13%                              7%
Financial Rate of Return                                       1O0                              6%
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Credit 525-MAG/Loan 1065-MAG
FY75     FY76     FY77     FY78     FY79     FY80     FY81     FY82
Appraisal estimate                       1.10     5.70     7.55     9.25     11.15    13.50      -        -
Actual                                    -       1.50     2.60     6.20      8.60    11.85    12.26    13.50
Actual as Z of estimate                   -         26       34       67        77       88       91      100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                                Original Plan                Actual
First Mention in Files                                                                    1972
Government's Application for Loan                                                          10/31/72
Negotiations                                                                              08/21-27/74
Board Approval                                                                             12/17/74
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                                                 12/23/74
Effectiveness Date                                               03/24/75                 07/08/75
Closing Date                                                     12/31/80                  12/31/81
Borrower                                                         Malagasy Republic
Executing Agency                                                 FANALAMANGA
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                         January 1 - December 1
Follow-on Project Name                                          Second Mangoro Forestry Project
Credit Number                                                 1161-MAC
Amount                                                        US$20 million
Credit Agreement Date                                         October 29, 1981
MISSION DATA
Date:       No. of     Manweeks    Specializations    Performance              Types of
Mission             (Month/'?ear)   Persons    in Field    Represented-/c      Rt           Trend/e     Problems/f
Identification               03//2          3           6
Preparation                  01/13        4 + 1        17
Appraisal                                   4          12
Total                                             35
Supervision I                06/15          1           1         FO                    2            2       F and T
Supervision II               12/15          2           2         FO and AE             2            2       F and T
Supervision I1l              07//6          1           1         FU                    2            2       F and T
Supervision IV               02/17          1           1         FU                    2            1       F aoid T
Supervision V                10/17          3           6         FO, AE and PPS        I            1
Supervision VI               09/178         2           3         FO and AE             I            1
Supervision VII              04/19          2           2         FO and E              1            1
Supervision VIII             11/79          1           4         E                     1            1
Supervision IX               06/80          2           6         FO and E              1            1
(and Appraisal
Phase Il)
Supervision X                03/31          2           1.5       FO and E              1            1
Total                                               27.5
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                                 Franc Malgache (FMG)
Average Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average  1974                                  US$ 1   =    FMG 240.5
1975                                  US$ 1   -   FMG 214.3
1976                                  US$ 1   =   FMG 239.0
1977                                  US$ 1   -   FMG 245.7
1978                                  US$ 1   =   FMG 225.6
1979                                  US$ 1   =   FMG 212.7
1980                                  US$ 1   =   FMG 211.3
Completion Year         1981                                  US$ 1   =    kMG 235.7
/a   Credit of US$6.75 million Flus loan of US$6.75 million.
/b   See para. 3.01 and 3.16.  Physical targets achieved ahead of time but project unit managed to extend project
period and finance two additional planting seasons (June 1981).
/c   FO = Forester; AE - Agricultural Economist; E - Economist; PPS = Pulp and Paper Specialist.
7d   1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
/e   1   Improving; 2 - Stationery; 3 = Deteriorating.
7f   F = Financial; T - Technical.






- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAG, CREDIT 525-MAG)
HIGHLIGHTS
The first Bank/IDA supported forestry project in Madagascar financed
a time-slice of a long-term silvo-industrial development program in the
Mangoro Valle-x.   Following pre-investment activities and trial plantations
supported in part by other external donors the project aimed at establishing
new forestry plantations and providing related infrastructure, research and
training.
Over 47,000 ha of forestry plantations were established, exceeding
the appraisal target by 35%.     The targets for road construction and fire-
breaks also were significantly exceeded.      However, only a fraction of the
small pasture development component could be realized.       Modifications were
introduced during implementation regarding tree planting operations, construc-
tion standards and methods for roads and buildings, and research and expatri-
ate consultancy.
The project's production objectives and returns on investment are,
however, unlikely to be achieved.     Tentative tree growth estimates for all
plantations established up to 1981, of which about one-third are pre-project
plantings,  averaged orly 5.3m3/ha/year.     The yields for project plantings
averaged 8.0m3/ha/year as compared with 13m3/ha/year anticipated at
appraisal.   These results, if confirmed under the on-going verification, are
jeopardizing the originally envisaged pulp mill development despite the fact
that some improvements may be possible in current and future plantings.      The
project's reestimated economic rate of return is 7% compared with 13% esti-
mated at appraisal.
A decision concerning investments in silvo-industrial facilities
could not be reached by the end of the first project phase, mainly due to
the lack of a reliable forestry inventory and the questionable viability of
such facilities, particularly for pulp production, and the lack of interest
among potential foreign partners. IDA approved a second-phase project in 1981
for implementation over a three-year period.
The following points may be of special interest:
-    tree  growth estimates   becoming  available  recently indicate very
disappointing results.   These crucial estimates, which to a certain
extent contradict earlier findings and are still subject to verifi-
cation, have appeared at a rather late stage; a lesson to be learned
from this experience is that strict monitoring of yields is neces-
sary in forestry projects where the type of species planted is not
indigenous or clearly proven to adapt adequately (PPAM, paras. 8 and
12-15; PCR, para. 3.20);






- iv -
it has not been possible to date to identify the type and organiza-
tional arrangement of processing industries for the utilization
of wood produced    on project plantations.     For this reason,    and
because forestry development is a long-term process, a final evalua-
tion of the whole program of which the present project is a part
must await the mnaturing of the plantations in another 5-10 years
(PPAM, paras. 16-20; PCR, paras. 3.19 and 6.06);
a follow-on project was approved by IDA in June 1981.       The project
was designed as an interim project to provide an opportunity for an
assessment of future investment options but also contains a signif-
icant plantation component, rendering it controversial in view of
the reported poor yields of past plantings (PPAM, paras. 21-23; PCR,
paras. 3.19 and 9.01); and
construction  standards   for roads and houses were lowered during
implementation, raising the question whether the case points to a
wider tendency to over-design similar infrastructure components at
appraisal (PPAM, paras. 24-25; PCR, paras. 3.13 and 3.26).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
MADAGASCAR - FIRST MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1065-MAG, CREDIT 525-MAG)
I. PROJECT SUMMARY-/
1.        Beginning in the mid-1960s, the Malagasy Government undertook
surveys and studies, assisted by UNDP, FAO and the Centre Technique Forestiers
Tropical (CTFT) aimed ai: increasing the country's forestry production.   Trial
plantations were started in 1968 and a gradually increasing area was planted
yearly thereafter. This project, approved for Bank/IDA financing in 1974, was
designed to support a five-year time-slice of a forestry plantation program
which constituted the basis for developing a silvo-industrial complex in the
Mangoro Valley.    It was anticipated    that investment decisions concerning
industrial facilities would be made later, in time for such facilities to
become operational in the mid-1980s.
2.        Total project cost amounted to FMG 4,601 million compared with the
appraisal estimate of FMG 4,400 million.      However, the US$ equivalent of
actual cost was US$20.2 million, or 17% above the appraisal estimate of
US$17.2 million.   The higher cost overrun in dollar terms resulted from the
actual exchange rate during the implementation period having averaged about
FMG 228/US$ rather than the FMG 255/US$ estimated at appraisal.     Costs were
considerably higher than anticipated at appraisal for afforestation and the
purchase of vehicles and equipment, about the same for project management, and
considerably lower for roads, research, training, studies and pasture improve-
ment.   The IDA Credit and Bank Loan of US$6.75 million each (as planned)
together financed about 67% of the project cost rather than 78% as appraised.
The balance was financed by the Malagasy Government.      The credit and loan
became effective in July 1975, four months behind schedule due to political
developments in the country and a delay in setting up the required institu-
tions. The Credit was fully disbursed by December 1978. The loan account was
closed in April 1982, about 15 months behind the original schedule,A/ after
cancellation of the undisbursed balance of about US$8,838.
3.        The project, in addition to supporting the establishment of plan-
tations, also included the construction of firebreaks and implementation
of a fire prevention system, the construction and maintenance of roads,
the construction of headquarter buildings, research and staff training,
the preparation of a second-phase forestry and other projects, and pasture
improvement.
1/   Adapted from the I>CR.
2/   The original Clos[ng Date of December 31, 1980 was, however, extended to
December 31, 1981.



- 2 -
4.        An area of over 47,000 ha was planted with trees, exceeding the
appraisal target for the project by some 35%, but overall roughly in line
with  the original   long-term  planting program.     Significant  modifications
were introduced in planting operations, in cooperation with the Bank, to
alleviate trace element deficiencies, improve site selection, bring about
better soil preparation for planting, and diversify into more promising
plantation tree species.   A total of 2,671 km of roads and track were built.
This was 48% above the target in terms of road length, albeit construction
standards were lowered during irmplementation to achieve this greater expansion
of the road network. The standard of houses and buildings also was lowered so
that over 2,000 units, or 78% more than planned, could be constructed.      Over
1,000 km of firebreaks were established as compared to 250 km envisaged at
appraisal.    Pasture development,   although very   successful with the local
villagers, remained nearly 60% below the target due to the high cost. Project
activities continued about two years beyond the original completion date,
largely because agreement could not be reached sooner on a second-phase
project.
5.        Training, executed internally by the project unit, was satisfac-
tory.   Research was carried out through the agricultural research institute,
CENRADERU, now called FOFIFA.    A four-year research contract becoming effec-
tive in 1976 covered forestry research together with plantation trials and
pasture-related agronomic   research.     A second-phase forestry project was
prepared as required,   but pre-investment work for other projects was not
undertaken; the latter is not a serious shortcoming as funds and staff ear-
marked for that purpose were put to good use elsewhere under the project. An
expatriate forest adviser assisted project management for only one year
instead of the originally proposed two, although his performance was very
satisfactory.
6.        To implement the project, a special unit, FANALAMANGA, was created.
The unit has been competently staffed and has operated quite satisfactorily in
most respects. Its reporting activities and relationship with other agencies
and villagers in the project area have been given high marks. Regular project
activities and special problems, as perceived by management, were handled
competently.   Initial difficulties with procurement, due to unfamilarity with
procedures, were resolved in due time.      FANALAMANGA's performance was less
than satisfactory, however, in the monitoring of tree development on its
plantations. Its trial inventory was greatly delayed and not fully processed,
with consequences which are difficult to assess at this time.
7.        Compliance with Loan/Credit Agreement covenants was generally
good. One significant exception was a prefeasibility study undertaken in 1978
with UNIDO assistance without consulting the Bank.



- 3 -
8.        Project benefits will derive primarily from wood production as raw
material for industrial use. Tree growth was estimated at appraisal at
13m3/ha/year mean annual increment under bark (MAI).     The estimate was based
on initial growth trials and experience in other countries. With such yields,
annual available cutting volume for age class 15 trees would have been 1.17
million m3, sufficient to eventually supply a 200,000 ADTPA (air dried tons
per annum) bleached long fibered sulphate pulp mill.L/      However, mainly due
to locational factors (slope, soil quality, rainfall, etc.) an MAI of only 5.3
m3/ha/year is estimated to have been achieved for the 12-year pre-project
and project period combined; the estimate for the seven-year project period
was 8.0 m3/ha/year.2/ The estimated cutting volume after 18 years (in-
stead of 15) ranges only from under 400,000 m3 to 700,000 m3. Some en-
couragement can be derived from the fact that yields from pre-project plant-
ings are much worse than from plantings established under the project, and
that some further improvements can be expected for current and future plant-
ings as experience gained to date continues to be incorporated in cultural
practices applied in the area.
9.        Project evaluation at appraisal assumed that a second plantation
phase and establishment of a logging industry and a pulp mill would follow
completion of this project.    Taking the cost and benefits of the project and
related follow-on investments into account, the financial rate of return at
appraisal was estimated at 10% and the economic rate of return at 13%.
10.       Given the continuing, and even heightened, uncertainty concerning
tree growth and, consequently, wood supply for industrial processing, an
evaluation of the whole silvo-industrial complex using the appraisal method-
ology is problematic at best at this stage. The evaluation in the PCR is thus
based on stumpage rates to avoid speculation about future developments. Using
this method, the project's financial rate of return has been estimated at 6%
and the economic rate of return at 7%.
11.       When it became apparent, in the late 1970s, that the viability of
establishing a pulp mill in Mangoro as originally envisaged was doubtful, the
processing of a second-phase project was delayed.     In June 1981, IDA finally
approved a second credit to finance continued forestry development expendi-
tures over a 3-year period.      The Credit (1161-MAG; US$20 million) became
effective in July 1982. The second phase aims at expanding the planted forest
area by 18,500 ha (17.5% of project costs) and supports studies and project
preparation to help resolve problems of silvo-industrial development (9.0% of
project costs). Nearly three-fourths of project costs are related to planta-
tion maintenance, administration, and provision of physical infrastructure.
1/   Meanwhile,  studies have shown that the economic size of such a plant
is larger, requiring about 1.4 million m3 per year.
2/   Tree growth estimates are still subject to verification due to the
underlying low sampling rate (PCR, para. 3.20).



- 4 -
Since conclusive tree growth estimates were not available at the time of
appraisal of the second-phase project, the assumptions used in the evaluation
are similar to those used for the first phase.
Il. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Tree Growthl/
12.       The central issue of this project is related to the disappointing
growth of the trees planted in the Mangoro Valley. The first full inventory,
undertaken in 1981 but still controversial because of the low sampling rate
(0.007% vs. 1.0% recommended), produced an estimate of 5.3 m3/ha/year MAI
for all 72,000 ha planted up to 1981 at Mangoro.        This estimate includes
25,000 ha of pre-project plantings, most of which have been judged to be
non-yielding, and about 47,200 ha of project plantings with an average MAI of
8.0 m3/ha/year.  The MAI appraisal estimate was 13.0 m3/ha/year.   A
combination of factors contributed to the shortfall in yields, including:
(a)  planting on steep slopes where,     because  of erosion,   soils have
become unsuitable for afforestation;
(b)  trace mineral deficiencies, particularly of zinc, in most locations,
often leading to stunted growth or death of trees;
(c)  occasional droughts; and
(d)  general adaptation problems of the main species planted, i.e,
Pinus kesiya, which continue to manifest themselves in various
symptoms as the trees grow older.
13.       An alarming aspect of the problem is that forestry experts are
not able to clearly attribute the degree of retarded growth to individual
factors. Furthermore, adverse effects which were not observed earlier,
occur as the trees grow older,     reducing the prospects of enhanced growth
towards the end of the growing cycle, even of those trees originally well
established. While progress has been made in reducing new planting in
non-yielding areas, i.e., areas where harvesting would not be worthwhile
because of the poor stands, such areas to date have not been eliminated
completely.   The latest survey shows most of the pre-project plantings as
being in non-yielding areas compared with 19% for the project period.
1/   This point is also extensively covered in the comments received from
Government (Annexes 1 and 2).



- 5 -
14.       Timing of Tree (:rowth Estimate.    It  is  disconcerting  that  firm
indications of likely poor yields did not become available earlier.         One
explanation, namely that yields in young trees are difficult to determine,
carries considerable weight considering the fact that many international
experts visited the young plantations without being overly alarmed by signs of
stunted growth. However, since the difficulties in judging tree growth
are well known to foresters, special efforts to carefully monitor yields
through extensive sampling would have been required. FANALAMANGA staff
was not successful in carrying out these responsibilities.    In fact, the 1979
inventory results, delayed as they were, blurred rather than clarified the
picture and, to some extent, misled authorities as they failed to direct the
necessary attention to this key problem area.       Bank supervision failed to
provide the necessary pressure and guidance and thus may have contributed
indirectly to creating the information gap.L/    Together with project manage-
ment, supervision staff concentrated mainly on areas planted as success
indicators and not enough on monitoring yields. One clear lesson to be
learned from this experience is that the Bank should insist on strict moni-
toring of yields in forestry projects where the type of species planted is not
indigenous or clearly proven to adapt adequately.
15.       Actual vs. Ant:;cipated Tree Growth.   Plenty of expert advice was
obtained during the late 1960s and early 1970s and, generally, the findings
were positive and encouraging.     Surveys and experiments were conducted and
trial plantations were established, leading up to the formulation of the
Bank/IDA project. The question can be asked how was it possible that a
majority of the pre-project plantations must now be considered to have
been established in unsuitable areas and how it happened that yield prospects
have been so disastrously misjudged.2/     The yield problem is a fundamental
one and not just a result of initial silvicultural mistakes which can be
easily corrected.   The trees simply do not grow sufficiently in many parts of
1/   The Region comments as follows:    "Although the 1978 trial inventory was
not a success, this was due in part to the fact that FANALAMANGA did not
follow Bank guidance (PCR, para. 4.04). In addition, the trial inventory
was followed shortly thereafter by the decision to carry out a full-
fledge inventory by experts with professional skills.     Thus, we do not
believe there was much scope for improving Bank supervision.      However,
if a clear or comprehensive monitoring system had been designed at the
outset to face the risk of a delayed start-up of the follow-on project,
many significant delays would have been avoided and the supervision
mission's pressure and guidance would have been more effective."
2/   These statements are based on the findings of the latest available
forestry inventory.    Regional staff caution that, since the inventory
findings are still somewhat controversial and subject to verification,
the statements may be premature.



the project area no matter how well they are cared for.lI      Even today, with
more than 12 years of experience, there is doubt that large-scale new planta-
tions with acceptable yields can be established in the vicinity of the project
area; smaller pockets of suitable locations have been located, however.     With
hindsight, it can be said that the pro,ject might have benefitted from a
larger research and consultancy inputS-        Research activities carried out
under the project produced some good results with respect to disease control
but were less successful in clarifying fertilizer response and in promoting
other measures aimed at enhanced tree growth.     The amount spent for research
and training was below th.e levels anticipated at appraisal.   Moreover, if the
expatriate consultaney had been prolonged rather than cut short, the tree
growth problems might have come into sharper fOcus at a more appropriate
time. The last, alheit overoptimistic, yield estimate produced by the expatri-
ate forestry expert dates back to mid-1976 and it is conceivable that the 1979
inventory would have been more successful had he been available to assist.
Extreme caution must thus be exercised in the future when expert opinion
regarding forestry yields, not backed up by long-term practical results under
field conditions, is being used to justify a massive forestry investment
program.
B.   Bank Involvement in the Mangoro Forestry Development
16.       Forestry-based  industries  are  a new development    in the M4angoro
Valley, hence, investment planning has been an exceedingly difficult task. In
addition ta unproven yields, the long growing period of trees, as is the case
with forestry investments, has aggravated problems related to determining
appropriate end uses of wood and forecasting associated production costs,
markets and prices. Consequently, when a decision was made in the early 1970s
to establish large-scale plantations, alternative development models were
discussed but, understandably, no decisions and investments related to
wood processing were made.    It was expected that information becoming avail-
able during the 1970s would facilitate the planning of transport and proces-
sing infrastructure so that by the time raw material would become available in
the mid-1980s, the infrastructure would be in place.
1/   See footnote 2/ page 5.
2/   The audit considers the research and consultancy inputs made available
under the project as highly beneficial to the project.        It wishes to
emphasize, therefore, that an expansion of these inputs beyond appraisal
levels could reasonably have been expected to be fruitful.         Instead,
there was a regrettable shortfall in spending for these purposes below
appraisal targets.



- 7 -
17.       In retrospect, events did not occur as expected.     A viable proces-
sing industry has not been identified,      partly because of the uncertainty
about tree growth and partly for reasons related to adverse world market
conditions. Furthermore, it has not been possible to bring prospective
foreign partners into the discussions on future development, nor are the
prospects for future involvement of essential foreign partnerships promising
in Madagascar. The original target date for logging and processing operations
to begin in 1985 has thus become illusory, and even the revised date of 1988
will not be met unless essential investment decisions, e.g., on the type of
end product to be produced, are made soon.      Although the follow-on project
provides support for investment planning, it has suffered delays and is
encountering ojerational difficulties (para. 21).
18.       Initial Bank Involvement.   It is appropriate to distinguish between
the circumstances facing the Bank at the time the decision to participate in
the project was made, and the experience gained to date on the basis of which
an interim assessment of that decision might be attempted.      The Bank faced a
situation in the early ]970s when forestry development ranked high in Govern-
ment priorities and, given the paucity of development projects in the Madagas-
car agriculture and forestry sectors, it was not foregoing more attractive
proposals by considering this project.    The appraisal, though having to work
from a scanty factual basis, did take into account the results of experimental
plantings and the investigations undertaken with the assistance of UNDP/FAO
and CTFT, a French bilateral research organization.    Available market studies
indicated international market potential. With the assumptions underlying the
appraisal analysis, pacticularly a potential yield of 13 m3/ha/year, the
project was judged to be viable.
19.       There undoubtedly were substantial risks associated with the pro-
ject. Government's strategy, in supporting such a relatively large, long-term
and capital intensive venture with sizeable maintenance and follow-on invest-
ments, in itself constituted a high risk factor. The technical risks associa-
ted with converting existing grassland on extremely poor soils into commercial
forests, using species without extensively documented local growing history,
were especially high.    The risky nature of Malagasy forestry development was
also evident from the poor performance of other plantations in the country and
from the absence of an experienced wood products export industry.!/     Proposed
means to alleviate those risks included research and continued experimentation
to promote tree growth, and the possibility to adopt alternative end uses of
the harvest from the plantations in the event of changed market conditions.
1/   The Region does not agree "that managerial and economic risks were
evident from the poor performance of other plantations in the country.
There are many excellent plantations in other parts of Madagascar".



20.       Eight  years  after the appraisal the results      look disappointing.
The project's risks turned out to be formidable and the means to cope with
them not quite adequate.    In retrospect, the yields of non-project plantings
were completely misjudged and yields of project plantings overestimated by
40%, according to currently available, but tentative, inventory data.          The
foreign investment climate is not as favorable in Madagascar as originally
anticipated, and world market prospects are more uncertain.          Decisions on
silvo-industrial investments have proven intractable so far. While the audit
finds these adverse circumstances to be of great concern, it recognizes that
forestry development is a long-term process and that final evaluation of the
whole program has to await the maturing of the plantations in another 5-10
years.
21.       Continued Bank Involvement.    The project was supposed to be comple-
ted in late 1979, with a second-phase planting (and possibly mill investment)
project to follow.    In fact, the essential physical targets (afforestation,
roads, fire breaks and buildings) were achieved on schedule.       The processing
of the second phase ran into difficulty, however, as a result of disagreements
between the Bank and Government about plans for silvo-industrial development.
A UNIDO study (1978) indicated that, under changed market conditions, a pulp
mill, to be viable in Mangoro, would have to be somewhat larger than origi-
nally proposed and Government wanted to proceed on that basis.          The Bank,
however, refused to endorse plans for the construction of a larger pulp mill,
for good reasons, as can be seen now. When an IDA credit was finally approved
in 1981, it was a compromise stopgap measure designed to gain further time
(i.e., 3 years) for assessing tree growth and conducting studies related to
the processing industry to be established.L/       However, additional plantings
(18,500 ha) were also included.
22.       In retrospect, the second-phase project appears correct in principle
because it has served to keep the dialogue going with all parties concerned
and to preserve, for the time being, the existing forestry institutions.       The
1/  The Region considers this ".....an interim project designed to give the
Government an opportunity to undertake a systematic and thorough assess-
ment of the future investment options."      Specifically, it is a condition
under the project that a "Feasibility Study" be carried out under an
existing agreement with UNDP (Document No. MAG/80/002/C/01/12, dated
October 3, 1980), with FAO acting as the executing agency.           While no
IDA Credit funds are involved, IDA obtained assurances that the consul-
tants employed for the study will be satisfactory to IDA, reports and
information will be provided, views exchanged, and meetings held with IDA
participation. The study is to be completed by June 30, 1984.



- 9 -
planting of completely new areas at this stage, however, must be questioned.l/
There is no guarantee that tree growth in the new areas will be better,
nor will this additional area generate sufficient wood supplies for what
experts believe to be the minimum viable size of a pulp plant; for major
alternative uses, existing stands are already adequate.      Had the results of
the tree growth survey been available at appraisal, the follow-on project
either would have been designed differently or not approved at all.
23.       The audit concludes that, in the follow-on project, even greater
emphasis should have been given to the design and expeditious execution of
end use studies for wood produced at Mangoro and the consolidation of existing
plantations.2/   The latter includes the disposal of trees in non-yielding
areas and the salvaging of threatened stands.      While the project still can
(and probably will) be modified in the direction indicated, the loss of time
since achieving the initial planting target in 1979 and the controversies
surrounding the tree lnventory and, of late, the on-going silvo-industrial
studies, have hampered forestry development at Mangoro.     To avoid recurrence
of the experience with the First Mangoro Forestry Project in the future, the
Bank ought to require more rigorous monitoring standards than were applied
there and set stricter intermediate planning targets for time-slice forestry
projects for which (a) crucial information is to be generated during the
initial years of the project, and (b) the planning process for all related
investments has not been completed when beginning project implementation,
i.e., the prevalent case.
C.   Additional Observations3/
24.       The project exceeded its physical targets by 48% for roads and
78% for houses and buildings.     It is explained in the PCR (paras. 3.13 and
3.26) that cost savings were achieved for these components by (a) undertaking
construction by force account instead of by contractor, and (b) accepting
deviations from the appraisal norms, i.e., switching to lower-grade standards.
The audit has reservat:ions about attributing cost savings to force account
activities  vis-a-vis  zontractor work without a detailed explanation.        Of
1/   OPS advises:    "The forestry related issue should be resolved before
proceeding further with the industrial studies and [IDA] should obtain
some independent assurance that, if properly maintained from here on,
the plantations will grow on to produce logs of merchantable size.
Some consideratiokn needs to be given to appropriate thinning schedules.
If such assurance is not forthcoming, planting should be stopped alto-
gether."
2/   OPS states:    "The impact on economic viability of the Mangoro Project
needs to be re-assessed on the basis of both lumber and pulp production
alternatives."   The focus of the on-going studies may thus turn out to
be too narrow.
3/   Further remarks on this point are also included in Government comments
(see Annex 2).



- 10 -
particular interest would be to know whether the method of accounting used by
the organization undertaking the construction work accurately attributes all
capital and overhead costs to the tasks performed and what the actual savings
achieved by not employing contractors were, both financial and economic.
25.       The feature of lowering construction standards during implementation
would imply that either the project was overdesigned at appraisal or quality
or safety were being compromised during implementation. There is no evidence
that the latter is the case.   This experience suggests, therefore, that there
could be a tendency in similar projects to overdesign infrastructure compo-
nents and evaluations and audits should focus on this aspect more closely in
the future.
26.       A final observation concerns the use of residual Bank loan funds.
In the last (eighth) year of disbursement, about US$1.6 million was disbursed
for the purchase of vehicles and equipment, accounting for 47% of total
expenditures for vehicles and equipment and resulting in overdisbursement for
this purpose compared with appraisal estimates of 62%.      Since these expendi-
tures were not needed to achieve the immediate planting targets, which were
already exceeded by about 20% at that time, such disbursements at the end of
the implementation period must be viewed with skepticism.L/       Theoretically,
the equipment could have been used for non-project related purposes or even
sold after the closing date of the Loan.     The practice is of less concern in
projects where progress is satisfactory, follow-on investments are contem-
plated and the risk of controversies developing around any of the investment
phases is minimal.
1/   In the Region's view:   "Although such skepticism would normally be quite
justified, in this case the heavy disbursement at the end of the project
period was made so as to enable the project entity to continue, in spite
of Madagascar's very difficult foreign exchange situation, operating and
maintaining its existing assets until Phase II could be effective. When
project requirements were assessed during the appraisal of Phase II the
existence of the recently purchased equipment was taken into account.
Madagascar's foreign exchange situation had deteriorated drastically
during the project period - and the apparent [over-disbursement] at
the end of the project, when Phase II had already been agreed on, repre-
sented a conscious shift in resources, undertaken with the agreement of
the supervisory staff.    In retrospect, in our view, the decision seems
reasonable and appropriate."



- ll -                 Annex l
Page 1
October 27, 1982
E-407/83
French (Madagascar)
OED
JCB:cc
CO1ÍMENTS RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT
The Democratic Republic of Madagascar
FOFIFA
Department of Forestry and Fishing Research
No. 362-MPARA/CEN/DRFP/10
Tananarive, October 14, 1982
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Dear Mr. Kapur:
Thank you for your letter of September 2, 1982.
Attached plea:,e find my comments on the reports, together with some
production figures in our possession that have already been included in our
final report.
Thanking you for demonstrating so much confidence in us.
Yours, etc.
/s/ A. Rakotomanampison



- 12 -                 Annex 1
Page 2
FANALAMANGA PROJECT - COMMENTS ON THE PROJECT PERFORMANCE
AUDIT AND COMPLETION REPORTS
I have the following comments to make on the above reports:
The main point at issue in the Mangoro project is that of the
production of the established plantations. The various estimates made in
this connection have all been inaccurate since there has been no proper
inventory to furnish reliable data. Because of this lack of data, of which
no one was really aware until the information was actually needed, errors
have been made all round, a fact that unfortunately did not become obvious
until the mill feasibility study was undertaken.
The inventory now in progress will provide a more accurate picture,
but we should point right away that the findings of the Department of
Forestry and Fishing Research are not all that optimistic. On the oldest
forest parcels, production figures vary between 30 - 190 m3 per ha. It
should be stressed that the various treatments considered involve a number
of techniques (soil preparation, planting density, fertilization, etc.)
which should be taken as a whole and not broken down according to the
different factors involved.
There is little doubt that Mangoro soils are poor. The serious
lack of trace elements, such as zinc, is but one of a number of deficiencies
in the area. But we feel that once these deficiencies have remedied, the
soils can be used for reforestation. This Department has carried out a
number of trials on different soi" types, with a view to devising the proper
fertilizer formula. We are putting forward a formula that has proven
satisfactory on the parcels and now has to be confirmed by geographic
diversification trials. It should be stressed, however, that fertilization
and planting density have to go hand in hand if a stand is to be productive.



-13 -                  Annex 1
Page 3
With respect to production levels, the extent to which the low
yields gives cause for concern depends on which original estimate was used.
At the time of the Forest Inventory Project (MAG 8), a forestry economics
expert indicated that a production of 13 m3/ha/year over barkwas feasible and
desirable if the projeci: was to show a good return. During the MAG 29
studies, another expert gave 13 m3/ha/year under bark as acceptable in the
light of the various plantations already existing in Madagascar, although it
is true that those plantations are located on soils and in ecological
conditions very different from those found at Mangoro.
Another point 1:o emphasize is that in any forestry operation the
final results cannot be determined until the trees reach maturity. Where
Fanalamanga is concerned, the oldest parcels are now 13 years old. While
our findings are provis:ional, it is guaranteed that they will be repeated,
both in time and in space.
Lastly, with such a vast reforestation program, unforeseeable
problems are very likely to arise, from time to time, problems that cannot
be solved.from one day 1:0 the next. To handle these situations, we need
more scientific resourceis in terms of research personnel and facilities.
Since the researchers have to follow the development of the plantations
virtually from day to day, they would thus be able to concentrate their
research on the most essential aspects of the program. This strengthening
of the research element would have repercussions on efficiency of outside
consultants and experts.



- 14 -                 Annex 1
Page 4
FERTILIZATION AND PLANTING DENSITY
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
I.       A number of trials have been carried out at FANALAMANGA, the most
significant being:
Trial No. 1 - Fertilization (Factorial P-K-CaMg) with the basic
formula 38 g PS05 - 24 g K20 and 100 g dolomite per
sapling.
Trial No. 3 - Density trial, same formula
Trial No  5 - Phosphorus quantity trial.     O - 30 - 37 - 60 and 120
g P205 per sapling tested in sub-blocks with
potassium (24 g K20) or dolomite (150 g)
Trial No. 17 - Fertilizer quantity trial: O - 70 - 135 and 200 g
of PK 21-18.
Trial No. 26 - Fertilizer trial (Factorial NPK) on 4 species.
Basic fertilizer 52 g PS205 and 24 g K20.
Trials Nos. 32 Trace elements trial with 30 g PS05, 24 g K20
and 33        and various trace elements.
The findings from these trials, which were carried out on a wide
variety of soils, served as the basis for the following starter fertilizer
formula for Pinus kesiya saplings:
30 g P205
30 g K20
02 g Zn
Leaf tests, and measurements taken up to the age of 12 years,
reveal that the use of this fertilizer results in proper growth rates on
most of the reforested sites.



- 15 -
Annex 1
Page 5
When the fertilizer used contains approximately these proportions,
we may expect a production at 10 years of 130 m3 - 240 m3/ha of wood (over
bark).
Production decreases when less fertilizer is used: in trial 17 the
following results were obtained (at 9 years):
no fertilizer      100 m3/ha
75 g of 21-16     105 m3/ha
130 g of 21-165   140 m3/ha
200 g of 21-16     180 m3/ha
In Trial 2 (souil preparation) a production of 30 m3 per ha at 10
years was obtained without fertilizer.
II.      Planting density occurs at severals levels in forestry production.
Our trials at FANALAMANGA yielded the following results:
Trials Nos. 1, 2 and 4      : 2,000 saplings/ha
Trials Nos. 5, 12 and 17    : 1,850 sapliiigs/ha
Trials Nos. 9, 26, 32 and 33: 1,600 plants/ha
The only trial in which lower densities were used was the density
trial. The following volumes were obtained at these trials:
Reference              Fertilized                    MAI
no. 1                    190 to 210 m3/ha at 9 years    21 - 23 m3/ha/year
no. 2                           150 m3/ha at 10.5 years      14 m3/ha/year
no. 5                           240 m3/ha at 10 years        24 m3/ha/year
no. 17                          180 m3/ha 10 years           18 M3/ha/year
no. 9                           120 m3/ha at 10 years        12 m3/ha/year
no. 1 2000 saplings/ha          144 m3/ha                    14 m3/ha/year
1600 saplings/ha        123 m3/ha                     12 m3/ha/year
1330 saplings/ha        110 m3/ha                     10 m3/ha/year
110  saplings/ha         90 m3/ha                      8 m3/ha/year



- 16 -
Annex 1
Page 6
With the appropriate quantities of fertilizer and proper density
(over 1,800 saplings/ha), we may expect a production of over 14 m3/ha/year
over bark.
For the FANALAMANGA plantations, we recommend the following
formulas:
Planting density:      2,000 saplings/ha
Starter fertilizer:    30 g P205
30 g K20
02 g Zn per sapling
This formula is applicable to most of the reforestation soils.
Exceptions will have to be made in just a few areas, the pertinent studies
being under way.



- 17 -                      Annex 2
Page 1
November 10, 1982
E-455/83
French (Madagascar)
Operations Evaluation
OTS:ms
Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Ministry of Agricultural ]'roduction
and Agrarian Reform
Office of the Secretary General
Antananarivo, October 18, 1982
No. 812/MPARA/SG
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Subject: Project Performance Audit Report,
First Mangoro Forestry Project
(Loan 1065 and Credit 525-MAG)
Reference: Your letter of September 2, 1982
Dear Mr. Director:
Further to your letter under reference, I have the honor to forward
herewith a memorandum commenting on the Project Performance Audit Report.
Yours, etc.
/s/ Raphael Rabe



- 18 -                      Annex 2
Page 2
COMMENTS ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
1. TREE GROWTH
Two essential facts have to be borne in mind concerning tree growth
in the project.
(a) Soil fertility
The soils in the Mangoro Valley have been divided into five
fertility classes. Whereas to begin with trees were planted in all five
classes, since 1977 there has been a clearcut trend away from planting on
slopes (fertility classes IV and V) pending the findings of studies under
way.
(b) Choice of species
Since a recrudescence was observed in dieback of Pinus kesiya, a
species initially believed suited to the ecological conditions of Mangoro, a
policy of diversification has been adopted in the light of the results
achieved in the various trials carried out in the project area.
Where the report speaks of poor yields, this statement needs to be
adequately qualified.
2. MISTAKE IN ESTIMATING TREE GROWTH
The yield problem is certainly fundamental, and it was a deficiency
in the management of the project not to have required an inventory of the
old plantations between 1977 and 1981. A pre-inventory of these plantations
was made in 1979 to provide a quick basis for the permanent project forest
inventory system. This permanent inventory is designed with a view to
returning to the same seed spots every three years from the sixth year after
planting onward (6 - 9 - 12 - 15 - 1 Paris) to determine the increments.
The sixth year after planting was chosen as the starting point for
the inventory because:



- 19 -
Annex 2
Page 3
(a) the increase in volume in the initial years is very small so that
one should wait till it reaches or exceeds 5 m3/ha before starting the
inventory;
(b)  depending on the fertility class, the plantation does not really
begin to produce until after three to five years (effective period required
for establishing the plantation).
N.B.
As long as the plantation has not reached the age of maturity, it
cannot be said that the volume achieved at an intermediate age can be
considered a satisfactory estimate of its productive potential.
For young plantations, the calculation can only be based on the
increase in height or on the height reached by the stand at a given age.
The inventory of the plantations established in Phase I is planned for
Phase II.
Regarding the plantations started since 1975, it seems premature to
assert thet "yield prospects have been so disastrously misjudged" and that
"The trees simply do not grow sufficiently in many parts of the project area
no matter how well they are cared for."
Many young plantations are doing quite well, while as regards old
ones which have not been able to benefit from the experience gained and the
findings of trials and research, valid solutions for improving the yields of
part of them are already known and are only awaiting implementation.
The findings of research regarding fertilization and young
plantations and corrective measures for old plantations on certain soils are
most promising.



- 20 -
Annex 2
Page 4
3. FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
For those who have followed and are familiar with the project, it
is superfluous to point out that the recent plantations are distinctly
better than the older ones (comparison of heights reached by stand, relative
homogeneity); this is thanks to the results of the trials and research and
the adoption [of appropriate measures*] after technical discussions
involving all those with responsibility for the project.
The search for ways and means to improve the mediocre plantations,
and deciding what to do with the poor ones, have been a constant concern for
the different managers, as is evidenced by the orientation given to the
research and trials.
Although the ultimate solutions have not yet been found as we are
still too close to the problem, much has been learned and will continue to
be applied.
4.  OTHER COMMENTS
The margins taken by the contractors and the additional expenses
entailed for them by the fact that they come from regions far from the
project area make their costs high compared with those of the company using
its own or locally hired personnel.
The exceeding of the appraisal targets was due to:
- the fact that Phase I lasted longer than planned;
- the abandoning for the time being of the slopes, which has meant
that the plantations have been spread out over a wider gross area.
*Phrase to this effect presumably intended, but accidentally omitted from
French original. (Tr.)



- 21 -
Annex 2
Page 5
The construction standards adopted in the design stage were far
from ambitious, but unavoidable changes in the project meant that certain
sacrifices that did not compromise safety had to be accepted, examples of
which are:
- accepting certain road gradients at some points;
- avoiding construction of large works;
- using a mix of permanent and semipermanent materials in the
housing: baked and unbaked bricks, mixed plaster instead of
all-cement plaster.
The equipment list for the project took into account the items
passed down from the pre-project phase. These had been fully amortized even
before the end of Phase I (1979).
Certain items acquired during the project are also well on the way
to being amortized.
Moreover, the equipment and vehicles procured new will not only be
used for the new plantations but also for forest inventory maintenance and
fire protection purposes.






- 23 -
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
April 7, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects
Central Agriculture Division






- 25 -
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Sector Setting
1.01   This report was written by Mr. A. de Largentaye who conducted the
completion mission which, jointly with the last supervision mission,
visited Madagascar in early March 1981 (see Basic Data Sheet). A draft
version of this report was circulated in July 1981, but was finalized only
in January 1982 to take into consideration recent changes in the estimates
of tree growth (para. 3.20).
1.02   Agriculture dominates the Malagasy economy, contributing about 40%
of GDP, accounting for about 80% of export earnings, and directly
supporting over 80% of the population. The forestry sector at present
contributes a very minor percentage of GDP, but is of importance as a
source of domestic fuel wood and charcoal, and potentially, of exportable
products.
1.03   One of the main objectives of the Malagasy Government over the last
five years has been the expansion of marketable production of agricultural
commodities in order, inter alia, to generate foreign exchange resources.
Agricultural exports, including exports of forestry products, have a
special significance in this context, because alternative means of meeting
the country's growing foreign exchange requirements are limited.
1.04   About 17.0 million ha (30% of Madagascar's land area) are classified
as forest land consisting mainly of indigenous tropical hardwood and some
pine and eucalyptus plantations. The table below summarizes in approximate
figures the current forestry resources of Madagascar:



- 26 -
Forestry Resources
(1981)
Million      Yield    Production
ha      m3/ha      million m3
per year    per year
"Savoka" (degraded
indigenous forests)       4.3          -           -
"Productive" indigenous
forests                  12.4         .4           5
Pine plantations              .1          -           -
Eucalyptus                    .2        10.0          2
Total                       17.0       10.4           7
Although most of the indigenous forests have low yields, they nevertheless
serve an important function in providing domestic fuel and timber and
maintaining water catchment. Pine plantations do not provide wood for two
reasons: (a) a large fraction of the plantations are still young and
immature; and (b) wood industries have not yet been developed to use the
available supply.
1.05   The man-made forests in Madagascar are mainly pine and eucalyptus
plantations. As land clearing and plantation costs are high in natural
forest areas, plantations have been carried out in open grassland areas.
The existing eucalyptus plantations have been established for fuel wood,
originally mainly for railway use. The 200,000 ha of eucalyptus are mostly
in small stands, often on private land, and are managed under a coppice
system, providing mainly fuel wood (including charcoal) and poles. A
continuation of eucalyptus plantation on a large-scale would be justified
only as raw material for industrial uses such as pulp and paper or chromite
reduction. High-yielding eucalyptus plantations have been successfully
established, particularly E. grandis in the Moramanga-Perinet area
(para. 3.11), but these require good soils for their best development.
1.06   In various areas with low agricultural potential where soils are
degraded the Government gives priority to the establishment of pine
plantations. The availability of such sparsely populated land in large
blocks relatively close to the sea gives Madagascar a comparative advantage
for the industrial production of wood based products for export. There are
three large pine plantations in Madagascar, listed below, and of these



- 27 -
three, the Government has developed mostly the Mangoro forest since 1973.
By contrast, the Matsiatra pine forest, started in the early 1960s, has not
been developed in recent years.   Although the Matsiatra forestry project
was designed to produce pulpwood, water shortages, relatively poor access,
and a limited plantation area lead, in 1975, to abandon the idea of a
pulpmill project in the Matsiatra area. Other pine plantations (see Map
IBRD 15290), in particular Haut Onive (only several hundred hectares
planted) and Antsirabe were virtually stopped in order to concentrate on
the Mangoro project:
Pine Plantations in Madagascar
(hectares)
1973     1980
Antsirabe     7,500   10,000
Matsiatra    30,000   30,000
Mangoro      18,500   65,000
Other         9,000     n.a.
Total        65,000     n.a.
1.07   Forest related industry in Madagascar is in an early stage of
development. The estLmated 7.0 million m3 (roundwood) total annual wood
consumption in Madaga;car is used approximately as follows:
Annual Use of Wood
(1981)
Million m3            m3 per
Use           of wood      %     capita
Fuel                  5.6       80%       .60
(of which
charcoal)        (1.0)     (14%)    (.13)
Industrial use        1.4       20%       .15
Total                 7.0      100%       .75



- 28 -
Increasing prices of charcoal in Madagascar indicate that demand is
outstripping supply. This is probably also true for fuel wood generally,
especially around urban areas. Regarding sawn lumber, official statistics
show a declining volume of mechanically sawn wood, from about 100,000 m3
per annum in 1974 to about 20,000 m3 today. There are a variety of reasons
for this decline, namely lack of trained staff, lack of spare parts,
logging and transport problens. On the other hand, handsawing (pit sawing)
may still account for about 150,000 m3 per annum 1/. Small volumes of
wood are also used for the production of pulp, hardwood and matches.
1.08   Until 1979, overall responsibility for forest organization and
management rested with the Directorate of Water and Forest (Direction des
Eaux et ForÍts) in the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
(MDRRA). In 1979 the MDRRA was reorganized with the principal objective of
providing better support to the regional and local institutions through
decentralization. The new water and forest service still has control of
lnational projects" which are financed with external assistance but has no
control of the regional forestry services.
1.09   In the 1980 investment budget, forest operations accounted for about
FMG 480 million (16% of MDRRA total). These figures do not include the
amount of foreign assistance on small specific projects. The Mangoro
project alone has represented more than 44% of total Government investment
commitments in the forestry sector over recent years.
1.10   Out of a total forestry staff of approximately 500 in the whole
country, there are 20 professionally qualified foresters (IngÈnieurs des
eaux et forÍts), 46 forestry technicians (IngÈnieurs des travaux), about
440 forestry assistants (Adjoints techniques et Agents techniques), and 30
foremen.  Many of the senior officers are not performing forestry
functions. Forestry training has been inadequate lately. In particular,
there have been no new professionally qualified foresters since 1972.
Bank Agricultural Lending Program in Madagascar
1.11   To date, the Bank Group has supported eight agricultural development
projects in Madagascar. Credits and loans for three projects are fully
disbursed: the Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (US $5.0 million), the Beef
Cattle Development Project (US $2.8 million) and the First Forestry Project
(US $13.5 million). Five other projects are under implementation: the
Morondava Irrigation Project (US $15.3 million); the First Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project (US $9.6 million); the Mangoky
1/ Demand for sawn lumber is not well known. The appraisal report of the
second phase Mangoro project, issued in 1981, states that demand is
high, whereas the preparation report of the first phase project, issued
in 1973, showed a rather limited domestic demand for mechanically sawn
lumber (para. 2.13): 48,000 m3 per annum of hardwoods and 6,000 m3 of
pine lumber (supplementary note, p. 5).



- 29 -
Agricultural Development Project (US $12.0 million); a Technical Assistance
Project for the Study of the Plain of Antananarivo (US $2.3 million); and
the First Agricultural Credit Project (US $10.0 million). The Second
Forestry Project (US $24.2 million) was approved in June 1981, and a Second
Village Livestock Project (US $15.0 million) was negotiated in December
1981. Several other projects are under preparation, in mixed farming,
irrigation, various crop production sub-sectors and agricultural services.
A Technical Assistance Project has been appraised. Experience with past
projects has been mixed. The Lac Alaotra Project was implemented on time,
albeit with some problems, but the performance for SOMALAC, the project
implementation agency, has deteriorated considerably since the completion
of the Project *. Production yields are low, and the maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure poor; a rehabilitation project for the region is
under preparation. The Beef Cattle Development Project encountered many
serious problems (para. 2.17); the First Village Livestock Project
encountered very serious delays, principally due to institutional problems
which required the renegotiation of the credit. The Morondava Project also
encountered serious problems, mostly managerial. The Mangoky Project is
off to a good start technically, but major institutional problems are now
arising. The First Agricultural Credit Project became effective only in
August 1981.
II. PRE-PROJECT DEVELOPMENTS
Origins of the Project
2.01   The origins of the Mangoro forestry project go back to the
mid-1960s.   The aims of the Malagasy Government's forest policy in the
1960s were the preservation of existing forests, particularly with a view
to protection of water catchment areas, prevention of soil erosion and the
expansion of forest production. The Government's 1964-68 Development Plan
included a chapter on forest development and aimed at an increase in the
value of forest industrial production from about $2.0 million in 1960 to
about $7.0 million irn 1968.
2.02   In 1966 the Gcvernment requested UNDP to help it solve two main
issues:
(a)   lack of information on the quality and quantity of
economically accessible marketable timber in the indigenous
forest; and
(b)   the need for a thorough technical and economic study of the
prospects for establishing a plantation based pulp and paper
industry.
2.03   UNDP responded by financing two FAO projects entitled "Inventory and
Development of Certain Forestry Perimeters", Phase I (MAG 8), and Phase II
(MAG 29). MAG 8 was approved in January 1966 and was operational from
*   The experience of the Lac Alaotra project was reviewed in a 1981 OED
Impact Evaluation Report which identified some important problems in
implementation. A rehabilitation and management strengthening project
for the region has been appraised.



- 30 -
November 1967 to December 31, 1971, whereas MAG 29 was approved in January
1971 and considered operational retroactively from January 1, 1970, to
June 30, 1973. Basically MAG 8 addressed the first issue (para. 2.02) and
consisted of a general reconnaissance of the forest resources, a detailed
inventory covering about 450,000 ha, and an evaluation of the economic
potential of these forests including studies of the possibility of
establishing forest industries and recommendations for the improvement of
log extraction methods and the preparation of a forestry development plan.
2.04   UNDP undertook to address the second issue in three successive
stages, leading to project MAG 29:
(a)   Preliminary Assessment of the Possibility of a UNDP Forestry
Project. In 1966 UNDP recruited consultants who selected four
possible plantation sites, including the upper Mangoro valley,
in addition to the Matsiatra plantations (para. 1.06) where
the Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT) 2/ already had
a forest research program.
(b)   FAO Reconnaissance Mission.   In May 1967 an FAO reconnaissance
mission, financed by UNDP, determined: (i) that the Mangoro
area was the only viable plantation site; (ii) that only a
large pulpmill could take full advantage of economies of
scale; and (iii) that plantation trials were necessary before
developing the full-scale project.
(c)   UNDP Project MAG 29.   As a result of the reconnaissance
mission, the main objectives of the subsequent UNDP project
MAG 29 were: (i) to carry out a preliminary feasibility study
of the prospects of a plantation-based pulp and paper industry
in the Mangoro region; (ii) to make recommendations regarding
the usage of the Matsiatra pine plantations (para. 1.06); and
(iii) to initiate trial plantations.
2.05   The preliminary feasibility studies of MAG 29 concluded that a
suitable mill site existed on the Mangoro river adjacent to the main
railway line and highway to the port of Tamatave, now Toamasina (270 km by
rail). The studies examined the viability of a 200,000 ton bleached kraft
chemical pulpmill, the cost of which was estimated at about US $100
million. Gross profitability (i.e. annual gross earnings as a percentage
of capital investment) for a mill of that size was estimated to be in the
order of 14%.
2.06   The recommendations of UNDP and FAO regarding the Matsiatra
plantations did not support earlier views in favor of a pulpmill. Although
in 1970 the Covernment, with UNIDO assistance, had already undertaken a
preliminary study on the prospects for establishing a pulpmill in the area,
2/ French Research Center for Tropical Forestry.



- 31 -
and concluded that gross prof itability would be 15% or 16%, FAO believed
these figures were tco optimistic. Estimating that other industrial
developments (a sawmill or, alternatively, an integrated sawmill,
blockboard and wood woolmill) in the Matsiatra area would earn higher
returns (23% and 31%, respectively), FAO concluded that, whether or not the
Government succeeded in attracting an overseas sponsor for the proposed
pulpmill in Matsiatra (which in the end it did not succeed in doing), it
was feasible to proceed with immediate installation of a first phase
sawmilling operation which could later either be integrated with a pulpmill
or expanded. However, the Government did not follow this conclusion
(para. 2.10) and until now the Matsiatra plantations have remained
under-exploited.
2.07   MAG 29 also included trial plantations in the Mangoro area which
began in 1968. Alongside Government and CTFT research plots, the project
set up about 800 ha of large-scale trial plantations. As trials seemed
promising, UNDP encouraged the Government to begin a pine plantation
program of about 4,000 ha/year. Thus 18,000 ha were planted by June 1973.
2.08   The pilot trials and studies carried out in Mangoro provided the
information needed for identification and preparation of a forest
industrial development programme.
Identification
2.09   An FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program identification mission visited
Madagascar between February 22 and March 7, 1972, and identified a project
to establish, as a first phase of the Mangoro afforestation program,
48,000 ha of pine plantations. Planting was to proceed at the rate of
6,000 ha a year starting during the November rains of 1973. The
identification report, issued in May 1972, assumed stumpage rates of FMG
738 (US $2.8) per m3 and determined the financial rate of return of the
plantations alone to be of the order of 7% to 9% and the economic rate of
return of the integrated silvo-industrial project (estimated to cost a
total of $142 million) to be of the order of 13%, with a value of annual
export pulp sales of about $35.0 million. The report pointed out that the
prof itability of the pulpmill could be improved by increasing its capacity
to 300,000 tons per annum. It also recommended technical assistance for
three positions, i.e. a forestry expert, a road engineer and an
engineer/workshop manager.
2.10   Four main issues were pending after the identification mission:
(i) Development of the Matsiatra forest zone. The new Government
included in its National Development Plan (1974-77),
published in May 1974, the construction of an unbleached
pulpmill at Matsiatra, which could entail overcapacity and
unnecessary competition if another pulpmill were developed in
the Mangoro area. For this reason, among others, UNDP/FAO
(para. 2.06) and Bank staff favored the development of a



- 32 -
sawmill project in Matsiatra. As the Matsiatra pulpmill
project was considered unlikely to attract foreign investors,
this issue was not considered very serious (para. 2.15).
(ii) Lack of data on the growth rate of species. This issue was
clarified in a further study by the UNDP project staff of
various village plots of Pinus kesiya scattered throughout
the Mangoro region (the eldest of which were about 15 years
of age) and a comparison with Pinus kesiya data from other
countries, which lead subsequent missions to assume a MAI
(mean annual increment) under bark of at least 12 m3/ha,
providing adequate soil preparation and fertilization.
Pre-project plantations, however, were expected to have a MAI
of only 9.6 m3/ha.
(iii) International pulp market. The viability of the project
appeared to depend particularly on the possibility of selling
bleached kraft chemical pulp in the South African market in
the mid-1980s. However, the market studies carried out as a
result of this apparent dependence on the South African
market revealed a growing demand and concluded that
Madagascar would have no difficulty in selling its bleached
kraft chemical pulp on the world market.
(iv) The low rate of return of the plantations alone. However
this low rate of return was accepted because of the higher
rate of return of the integrated project, including
plantations as well as the pulpmill.
Preparation
2.11   The Malagasy Government which had been in power since independence
(1960) was overthrown on May 13, 1972. The new Government made many
changes, but did not modify policies for the forestry sector. Thus, the
formal request for a loan to finance the Mangoro forestry project was
issued on October 31, 1972.
2.12   The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme preparation mission lasted from
January 25 to February 22, 1973. The preparation report was published with
some delay in July 1973, because of uncertainty in international pulp
prices. Although the socio-economic impact of the project on the local
population was not considered by the preparation mission to be a serious
issue, it requested specifÓc guarantees from the Government on that aspect
of the project (para. 2.17).
2.13   The preparation mission devoted special attention to the economic
and market analysis of various industrial alternatives. Most of the
primary forest products which could conceivably be produced in Madagascar
from the Mangoro plantations were rejected for basic technical and economic
reasons, leaving six selected products (see below) for which detailed
economic and market analyses were carried out:



- 33 -
Forestry Products Selected by the Preparation Mission
(1973)
Products
Category                 Products rejected              selected
1. Wood and logs                                          Pulpwood
Sawlogs
2. Mechanical wood    Plywood                             Sawn wood
products       Part icle board
Fibreboard
Blockboard
3. Pulp and paper     Groundwood or mechanical pulp       Bleached kraft
products       Semi-chemical and chemi-               pulp
mechanical pulps
Bleached and unbleached sulphite
pulps
Unbleached kraft pulp
4. Papers             Printing and writing papers         Newsprint
Linerboard
The analyses confirmed that a large bleached kraft pulpmill was the most
viable industrial deve:lopment. Exporting the output as pulpwood and
sawlogs was shown to be highly uncompetitive; nor was sawn lumber a viable
output, because no domestic market existed to absorb large quantities of
sawn lumber (footnote of para. 1.07) and the export markets for this
product were only marg:inally attractive if at all. Production of newsprint
and linerboard was not retained because it required an investment as high
as a bleached kraft puLpmill but with lower gross earnings. The
preparation report confirmed that larger bleached kraft pulpmills (220,000
and 260,000 TPA) produced higher gross earning rates but conservatively
based its financial and economic assessment on the less attractive 200,000
TPA capacity model.
2.14   The financial rate of return of the integrated investment program
(plantations plus pulpraill) was 12%, the economic rate of return 13%.
Because pulp prices (c.i.f. Rotterdam) had risen by 25% from US
$186/ADT 3/ in March 1972 to US $232 in May 1973 (the latter figure was
used in the calculations of the preparation report), and price and market
prospects were favorable, the rate of return of the Mangoro plantations
3/ Air dried ton.



- 34 -
alone (para. 2.10 (iv) ) was no longer an issue. The pulpmill project
could purchase the wood at stumpage rates of FMG 800 per m3 under bark
ensuring a 10% rate of return to plantations and still earn a rate of
return of 12.4% for the pulpmill alone.
Appraisal - Negotiations - Board Approval
2.15   The appraisal mission visited Madagascar from November 22 to
December 13, 1973, and concluded that the project had been well prepared.
The mission confirmed that the bleached kraft pulpmill was the most
attractive industrial development. World markets for bleached long fiber
(pine) chemical pulp were expected to continue expanding. The prices of
pulp had increased substantially since 1973, and market projections
indicated a real price increase of about 2% annually up to 1985. In
addition, the location of the pulpmill for the Mangoro project on a river
and near a main road and railway compared well as against other similar
projects in southern Africa. The mission therefore believed that the
industrial component of the program was likely to attract foreign
investors. By contrast the Matsiatra pulpmill project was considered
unlikely to attract private investors and was therefore discounted as a
serious potential competitor to the Mangoro project (paras. 1.06 and 2.10).
2.16   Based on the June 1974 c.i.f. price Northwest Europe of $340 per ADT
(a 47% nominal increase since May 1973) and on the current exchange rate of
FMG 255/US$, the financial rate of return of the overall silvo-industrial
development program (including a second plantation phase, a logging
industry and the pulpmill costing by itself $140 million) was estimated at
about 10% over 33 years. Net foreign exchange earnings were expected to
reach US $42 million at full development. By shadow pricing foreign
exchange at 125% (FMG 320/US$) of the current rate (FMG 255/US$) and labor
costs at 75% of the current wage rates, the economic rate of return was
estimated to be 13% over 33 years. Thus, the financial and economic rates
of return appearing in the appraisal report were in line with previous
figures. Although the pulpmill still emerged as the most attractive
industrial option, the appraisal report included, as a fallback position,
the possibility of exporting the project output as roundwood or wood chips,
with an economic rate of return of 10%.
2.17   At the request of the preparation mission (para. 2.12), the
Government of Madagascar had carried out a special study to determine the
economic activity, the area cultivated and grazed, the attitudes and the
number of people living in and around the project perimeter, and the steps
to be taken to accommodate local peoples' interests in the project area.
The study enabled the appraisal mission to judge that, because the
afforestation would not affect agricultural and grazing lands, and subject
to proper consultation with the villagers, especially on plantation
boundaries, the project's social benefits should outweigh its social costs
and resistance by local people, which had plagued the Beef Cattle
Development Project (para. 1.11), was not to be feared in this project
(para. 6.03). These matters were incorporated in the legal



- 35 -
agreements 4/. A fulL fire protection scheme was included in the project
design and provided an additional safeguard against possible incendiary
damage by local people.
2.18   Although the land for afforestation was unencumbered hy land claims
and therefore, under Malagasy laws, was state property, throughout
preparation and appraisal, the Bank staff requested, prior to negotiations,
a legal title stating the Government's full rights. Already in 1971, the
Minister of Rural Development had attempted to obtain such a title for
100,000 ha of the project area from the Minister of Finance in charge of
the state property services ("Service des Domaines"), in conformity with
the seven step procedure stipulated in the laws on the allocation of state
property to the public services ("affectation des biens domaniaux aux
Services Publics"). By the end of 1973, i.e. two years after the procedure
was initiated, it had only reached the second of its seven steps. During
the appraisal, however, the forestry services found a shorter procedure,
based on forest law. This procedure remained under the initiative of the
Minister of Rural Development and did not require the intervention of the
state property services ("Service des Domaines"), given that the project
area was state property. At the Bank's request, the Ministry of Justice
acknowledged during the appraisal that this procedure was in conformity
with Malagasy legal and constitutional practices. As a result, the
Minister of Rural Development was entitled to sign the decree (arrÍtÈ no
0701-NDE/FOR of February 28, 1974) including the full project area
(190,000 ha) in the National Forestry Reserve under perpetual autonomous
control by the Director of Forestry.
2.19   The appraisal mission noted the high technical and administrative
standard of the Malagasy Forest Department which had proved its capacity to
carry out an annual planting program of 6,000 ha per year. However, the
mission confirmed that the limited number of local forestry professionals
warranted some outside assistance, and a minor provision was made for
technical assistance (para. 2.23).
2.20   During appraisal, Bank staff had worked on the assumption that the
project would be implemented by a new, separate project unit within the
Forestry Directorate of the Ministry of Rural Development. The principal
objectives were to ensure that the implementing authority had an autonomous
budget and appropriate authority to procure needed equipment efficiently.
During negotiations, some important changes were made in the implementation
arrangements, because, as the Malagasy pointed out, if the project entity
was part of the Forestry Directorate, the procurement of equipment would be
subject to prior approval by the minister. As a result, agreement was
reached on the creation of a new parastatal agency, entirely separate from
the ministry, to manage the Mangoro development. In the delegation's view
the most appropriate legal basis for the entity was that of a SociÈtÈ
d'Economie Mixte (para. 3.03), which enabled private interests to
4/ Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter No. 3.



- 36 -
participate in the subsequent development of an industrial processing
complex. Approval by the Bank of the statutes of the project entity was
made a condition of Board presentation. The statutes were agreed upon in
November 1974, five weeks before Board approval. The newly created project
entity, FANALAMANGA, was owned by the Governnent, except for 1% of the
capital shares owned by the Central Bank of Madagascar.
2.21   The project was approved by the Board on December 17, 1974.
Virtually all the comments made by the Executive Directors during the
discussion were favorable to the project. Ilowever, the question was raised
whether the Mangoro project was a high priority in the development strategy
of Madagascar, given the large investment that the construction of a
pulpmill would require, and whether Madagascar was not foregoing more
fundamental development projects because of the Mangoro project's
financing.  It was stressed in the answer that, because Madagascar's
development program unfortunately did not include many projects, the
country was not giving up any other project. In summary, the Bank would
gladly have been more involved in Madagascar if the country had developed
more projects for financing.
Project Description
2.22   As approved by the Board, the project included:
(i) Afforestation of 35,000 ha of pine plantations, including
surveying of the area to be planted, land preparation,
establishment of nurseries, fertilization, planting, weeding
and disease control.
(ii) Construction of firebreaks and institution of a comprehensive
system of maintenance and of fire prevention and control for
all plantations in the project area.
(iii)  Construction and maintenance of service and plantation roads.
(iv) Construction of buildings for project headquarters and three
divisional headquarters.
(v) Research, training and preparation of a second-phase project.
(vi) Preparation of agricultural projects.
(vii)  Agro-pastural development in the project area.
2.23   The project was practically unchanged compared to its initial
conception. The main differences concerned:
Size:  The afforestation programme covered 35,000 ha to be
planted in five years instead of 48,000 ha in eight years as
suggested in identification. This resulted from the higher



- 37 -
planting rate of the forestry services (7,000 ha per annum
instead of 6,000) and the progress of the pre-project
afforestation programme, which totalled 25,000 ha by the end
of 1974.
Technical Assistance:   The proven competence of the local
forestry services explains why only one expatriate position
was fina]ly retained (for the research component), compared
to three suggested by the identification (para. 2.09) and
preparat:ion missions. It is significant that this positior
(forestry expert) was requested by the Malagasy Government,
and was rnot proposed by the Bank.
Villager Compensation:   The Loan Agreement (Section 3.08)
specifically provided that boundaries would be agreed with
villager<; living in the project area. Furthermore, US
$100,000 were provided for the improvement of about 2,000 ha
of pasture through the introduction of stylostanthes, a high
yielding legume successfully tested in Madagascar. Finally,
Supplemenital Letter No. 3 provided that social infrastructure
(health and education) would be put at the disposal of the
villagers and that, in the event of any loss or impairment of
the villagers' rights caused by the execution of the project,
compensation in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations of Madagascar would be given to said villagers.
Cost:  The cost of the project, according to the appraisal
report, was US $17.2 million, compared to US $8.5 million
(without contingencies) in the preparation report. The
increase resulted from: (i) the inclusion of contingencies,
accountirng for US $4.5 million; (ii) the updating of costs to
last quarter 1974 prices, accounting for US $1 million; (iii)
the provision of research, training and consultant fees,
costing US $1.2 million; and (iv) higher labor requirements
(1,975 workers employed, according to the appraisal report -
para. 5.02), than in the preparation report (1,200 employed),
accounting for US $1.9 million.
Bank/IDA contribution:   At negotiations, the Malagasy
delegation requested and Bank/IDA agreed that Bank/IDA would
increase their contribution from 76% to 80% of total project
cost, as in the Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project, approved in July 1974, and the Third Highway
Project, approved in December 1973. For the Mangoro Forestry
Project, the higher contribution entailed an increase of the
Credit and Loan by $250,000 each (from $6.5 million to $6.75
million).



- 38 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
3.01   On many aspects, the project had an excellent implementation
record. The project unit FANALAMANGA achieved all physical targets ahead
of time, and, despite limited foreign exchange and higher costs of imported
equipment than expected, it managed to extend the project period and
finance two additional planting seasons, which is an exceptional
performance in Madagascar. Recent studies have shown, however, that
FANALAMANGA, as all other forestry specialists involved in the project,
were too optimistic on the expected project output.
Effectiveness
3.02   The Development Credit and Loan Agreements set the date of
effectiveness at March 24, 1975, i.e. three months after signature of the
legal documents. There were two conditions of effectiveness to the Loan
Agreement: the establishment of the project entity, FANALAMANGA, and the
appointment of its Director General, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank postponed the date of effectiveness
twice; first from March 24 to May 31, 1975, in consideration of the
political and administrative turmoil resulting from the assassination of
the head of state on February 11, 1975; then from May 31 to July 31, 1975,
because of administrative delays in establishing FANALAMANGA.
3.03   FANALAMANGA was established on June 4, 1975, but, because of changes
in its statutes, a draft of which was examined during negotiations, the
Bank did not give its approval immediately. The major change, a reduction
of the amount of Government equity capital from FMG 2,000 million to
FMG 500 million, was necessary to enable the Central Bank of Madagascar to
participate with equity, and thus to establish FANALAMANGA as a SociÈtÈ
d'Economie Mixte (para. 2.20) 5/. The reduction in equity was to be made
up by an interest-free loan from Government to FANALAMANGA, later to be
converted into equity. As a result, there would be no increased financial
burden on FANALAMANGA. The Bank's Legal Department requested that the date
of the transfer of the loan into equity be specified as not later than the
end of the Project Development Period, to conform with the legal
agreements. This request was met by the Borrower on July 15, 1975, and the
Bank declared the Development Credit and Loan Agreements effective on July
18, 1975.
3.04   The other condition of effectiveness, the appointment of the
Director General of FANALAMANGA, was met with the nomination of a highly
qualified forester, as reported by the supervision mission which returned
from Madagascar on June 7, 1975. The nominee, currently still the Director
General of FANALAMANGA, was trained at the Ecole Nationale des Eaux et
ForÍts of Nancy, the top French forestry academy, and was previously "chef
5/ The reasons for this change remain unclear.



- 39 -
de service" in the Department of Forestry and Soil Conservation in the
Ministry of Rural Development. The curricula vitae of the senior staff of
FANALAMANGA (plantation director, financial director and workshop engineer)
were sent to the Bank at the end of June 1975, within the agreed time limit
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement) (para. 5.02).
Start-up
3.05   The main problemn during the start-up period was the scarcity of
funds. This resulted in part from the postponements of the date of
effectiveness, but was made more acute by some errors in procurement.
3.06   Errors in procurement were made in the beginning of the project
although the Bank staff had exercised special care to inform the Borrower
of Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. FANALAMIANGA handed two tender
documents, one for vehicles and equipment (mainly tractors, bulldozers,
graders, etc.) and one for fertilizers and petroleum fuel, to the
supervision mission that visited Madagascar in October 1975. The
supervision mission report states that the format of documents was
satisfactory. The documents were reviewed by the Projects Division in
Washington; however, no formal clearance was transmitted to the
Government. In March 1976, after the requests for proposals were issued,
the Bank received complaints from manufacturers of vehicles and equipment
that the technical specifications were too restrictive. Bank staff then
found that the tender documents reviewed in Washington did not include the
technical specifications which were the subject of complaints. As
requested by the Bank staff in April, the Borrower issued a statement to
the effect that equivalent equipment to that specified in the tender
documents would be considered eligible and that the deadline for receipt of
tenders would be postponed to June 30, 1976. The mishandling of the
procurement was due to the inexperience of the local staff with regard to
the Bank procedures at the beginning of the project, and to the difficulty
of spotting inaccuracies in detailed technical specifications from
Washington. The resu:Lt was delay in receipt of equipment of about six
months. This is an instance of what might have been avoided through close
supervision by experienced Bank staff based in the country (see also
paras. 3.28 and 6.07).
Revisions
3.07   There were no major revisions of the Project during implementation.
Some relatively minor changes are reviewed below.
3.08   The appraisal report envisaged the organization of the plantations
in three divisions, in which 1,000 to 4,000 ha would be planted each year
in four plantation operational areas. This would have required periodic
resiting of laborers' villages, which was contrary to new Government
directives on housing standards. In July 1975, FANALAMANGA therefore
proposed to double the number of operational areas and reduce their size,
thus increasing the number of villages and avoiding the necessity to move



- 40 -
villagers every third year. A favorable side effect was that it would no
longer be necessary to move the nurseries every third year. While the
initial capital outlay on permanent housing and, to a smaller extent, on
road network was expected to be more than envisaged at appraisal, over the
long-term there would be a net saving on housing and nursery establishment
costs. Although Bank staff had initial reservations on this proposal
because of the increased cost of housing and road building, the proposal
was examined and approved during the second supervision mission
(December 1975).
3.09   Poor growth of trees, recorded on four to six-year-old plantation
trials, created serious concern in 1975, the first year of the project
period. Based on FANALAMANGA's findings, the first two supervision
missions identified the following causes: (i) infertile soils on steep
slopes, over 30%, where soils were degraded and low cost mechanical soil
preparation was not possible; (ii) soil preparation: the soil required
more thorough preparation than the subsoiling, disc harrowing, and manual
loosening of the surface soil, recommended in the appraisal report; (iii)
dieback appearing throughout the project on four-year-old Pinus kesiya
plants although only small areas (unquantified) had been destroyed; and
(iv) lack of fertilization: by the end of 1975 only 20% of all plantations
(totalling about 32,000 ha, with the pre-project plantations) had been
fertilized with binary PK (phosphorus, potassium) and scarcity of
fertilizers was still delaying fertilizations. The pronounced effect of
fertilizer and soil fertility on the growth rate of trees is summarized in
the following table (from the terminal report of the expatriate forestry
adviser, dated May 31, 1976):
Mean Annual Increment Under Bark Over 15 Years in m3/ha
Pinus Kesiya Planted in 1975 and 1976
Soil preparation                 Mechanical            Manual
Soil fertility classes        I     Il     III     IV     IV    V
Fertilized plantations      19.2   16.2   13.7    10.8   7.9   5.1
(average)                          (14.3)               (6.0)
Unfertilized plantations    13.3   10.7    8.5     6.3   3.9   2.6
(average)                           (9.1)               (3.0)



- 41 -
3.10   The expatriate forestry expert estimated the mean annual increment
(MAI) under bark in mid 1976 to be 10.4 m3/ha on average for the total area
planted (37,500 ha). This was below the appraisal estimate of 12 m3/ha,
and somewhat below the average Il m3/ha expected from both the project and
pre-project plantations, given the lower pre-project yields (para.
2.10 (ii) ).  Consequently, towards the end of 1975, FANALAMANGA undertook
the following measures, recommended or agreed to by the Bank supervision
missions:
(i) To stop planting infertile steep slopes and plant only flat,
fertile sites as from the planting season 1976/1977. (Flat,
fertile sites were understood to mean sites with slopes under
13%, and steep slopes were all those over 25% corresponding
to soil fertility Classes V and VI.) However, moderate
slopes between 13% and 25% also continued to be planted in
the hope that late fertilization would compensate the poor
fertility of the soils (presumably Classes III and IV). The
forestry adviser pointed out in his terminal report that the
restriction of plantations to land under 25% slope would not
enable to plant 96,000 ha within the project perimeter and
theref ore plantations would have to be made in areas outside
the project area. This issue was addressed in relation with
the silvo-industrial development (para. 3.12).
(ii) To improve soil preparation. Although disc-ploughing in
addition to subsoiling was initially envisaged in 1975, this
required additional disc-ploughs and more powerful
crawler-tractors which were expensive and in short supply.
To compensate for the shortfall of equipment, the project
management resorted to manual cultivation within a 50 cm
radius around each planting spot ("placette de plantation")
in addition to the mechanical soil preparation recommended at
appraisal. However, the impact of this measure was not
'quantified in terms of mean annual increments.
(iii) To undertake research and consult international specialists
on the cause of dieback.   As a result, this cause was
virtually identified very quickly (end of 1975). The
forestry research institute determined that dieback was due
to a deficiency in a trace element (zinc) and confirmed this
in 1978 by trials and experiments. Zinc chloride was
procured and treatment by aerial spraying began in 1979. At
the completion of the project (end June 1981), about 40,000
ha of Pinus kesiya plantations had been treated, leaving
about 7,000 ha ta be treated during the second phase
project. Beginning in the 1980/1981 planting season, new
plantations of Pinus kesiya received zinc chloride along with
their initial fertilizer dose.



- 42 -
(iv)  To plant other pine species, more resistant to dieback,
rather than Pinus kesiya alone. Pinus kesiya had been chosen
mainly because seeds were available locally. The project
unit decided to limit plantations of the vulnerable Pinus
kesiya to the unexposed southern division and plant more
resistant species in the exposed areas (central and northern
divisions). The proportions to be planted from the planting
season 1976/1977 would be 30% P. kesiya, 15% P. elliottii,
55% P. caribaea, which would have given the following
dis tribut ion:
Actual and Planned Distribution of Pine Species in 1976
(ha)
Species               Actual           Planned     Total
1976/77
through
1974/75     1975/76       1980/81
P. kesiya         6,190       5,470        10,683    22,343
P. elliottii          -           -         5,341     5,341
P. caribaea           -           -        19,486    19,486
Total             6,190       5,470        35,510    47,170
Unfortunately, up-to-date figures on the breakdown of
plantations by pine species are not on file (para. 3.21) to
compare with the above planned figures, but, although seeds
were received one planting season late (for 1977/78 instead
of 1976/77) (para. 3.32), the program of diversifying species
appears to have been carried out successfully. The last
supervision report, for example, states that: "Nowadays
P. kesiya constitutes less than 20% of the area planted".
(v)  To procure fertilizer urgently through local bidding for the
ongoing plantations (para. 3.31) and apply late booster
fertilization doses to unfertilized plantations. Fertilizers
could increase mean annual increments by three to five m3/ha,
as shown in the table in para. 3.09. However, fertilizers
remained in short supply until 1976, when internationally
procured fertilizers were received. As from the 1976/77
planting season, all newly planted trees, except Pinus
caribaea which does not require fertilization according to



- 43 -
trials arid observations carried out by the forestry research
institute FOFIFA, received the dose of fertilization
recommencled at appraisal (100 g of binary P-K). Subsequent
trials appear to have confirmed the adequacy of this dose.
Unfertilized plantations were gradually late-fertilized. By
1981 29,450 ha had been fertilized, representing 63% of the
area requiring fertilizer (46,710 ha 6/).
3.11   Because of the poor quality of soils in the Mangoro forest area,
only pine species had been retained for plantation at appraisal. However,
as a result of indications that the size of a viable pulpmill should be
increased, which the supervision mission of November 1977 supported,
plantations of fast grc,wing Eucalyptus grandis, with a higher MAI than
pine, appeared as a possible way of increasing the output of the Mangoro
forest and meeting the requirements of a larger pulpmill. The mission
therefore recommended to extend plantations (para. 3.12), inter alia, to
areas south of the initial project area endowed with good forest soils
appropriate for E. grandis, and suggested planting 18,000 ha of this
species. An eight year felling rotation, with an estimated MAI under bark
of 25 m3/ha, was envisaged based on the results achieved in the existing
plantations at Sandrangato and Perinet, south and east of Moramanga,
respectively, of up to 50 m3/ha MAI (under bark) on the best sites
(para. 1.05). FANALAMANGA carried out introductory planting of a few dozen
ha of E. grandis in the south on good forest soils during the last two
years of the project. The second phase project provides for large-scale
trials of 500 ha of E. grandis.
3.12   Modification of the Project Area.    The supervision mission of
November 1977 concludecl that plantations too far north would entail
prohibitive log transport costs to the projected site of the pulpmill. As
a result, FANALAMANGA agreed as far as possible not to extend the
plantations to the extreme north of the project area and to prospect for
new areas nearer to the projected site of the pulpmill. Survey teams
prospected areas to the east, west and south of the project area during
1978 and identified new (additional) areas totalling over 20,000 ha net to
compensate for the unp].anted northernmost part of the initial project
area. Like the initial project area, these new areas were unoccupied and
unencumbered by land cdaims, and considered state forestry property.
However there is no evidence that the Bank required specific action, as it
did at appraisal, to include the new afforestation areas in the National
Forestry Reserve (para. 2.18).
6/  Total area planted            72,292 ha
-  P. caribaea plantations    19,486 ha
-  Slopes 13% and over         6,096 ha
Area requiring fertilizer     46,710 ha



- 44 -
3.13   A minor revision also occurred on the construction of roads.      In
December 1975 the bids received showed that the estimated cost of road
construction by contract had risen from FMG 3.6 million per km at appraisal
to FMG 25 million per km. Therefore the Bank accepted, in October 1976,
FANALAMANGA's costed proposal to undertake road construction by force
account instead of by contract. This had a significant impact on the
overall cost of the project (para. 3.26).
3.14   Because the Borrower considered it expensive, technical assistance
was terminated earlier than expected. At the Borrower's request
(para. 2.23), the Loan and Credit Agreements provided for financing of a
forestry expert, the idea being to ensure a smooth transition from the
UNDP-FAO project, by recruiting one of its staff for two years. In
addition to initial financing problems, agreement was difficult to obtain
because the Borrower was reluctant to pay FAO's overhead costs, charged at
14% of the specialist's salary. Finally agreement was reached, but for a
contract of only one year instead of two.
3.15   A final revision concerned the use of the earthball technique
instead of plastic tubes in nurseries. The earthball technique consists in
transplanting seedlings into a clay mixture compressed into an oblong ball
without a container. Provided the technique is correctly carried out, it
is less costly in inputs and labor than the techniques of transplanting
seedling in plastic tubes.   The staff of FANALAMANGA persuaded the
supervision mission in July 1976 that their nursery staff could use the
earthball technique with satisfactory results. Hence, the use of plastic
tubes envisaged in the appraisal was abandoned and the earthball technique
was applied successfully.
Implementation Schedule
3.16   Overall, the project was implemented faster than expected at
appraisal, despite delays incurred during the first three planting seasons
(1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77) for reasons explained above (date of
effectiveness, procurement and plantation reorganization) and delays in the
latter years (para. 3.19). Progress on the different components of the
project (para. 2.22) are reviewed below and summarized in Table 3.
3.17   Afforestation (Table 3).    By the middle of 1979, with a total of
34,635 ha planted, the project target of 35,000 ha had virtually been
attained. At the completion date (June 30, 1981) 47,170 ha were planted,
exceeding the target by 35%. However, land preparation was a bottleneck
until 1976 when equipment was received and the decision was taken not to
plant steep unfertile slopes where mechanized land preparation was not
possible (para. 3.10 (i) ). Subsequently, land preparation was carried out
exclusively by mechanical subsoiling, exceeding the appraisal targets. In
addition, manual plant hole preparation, begun in the planting season
1974/75, was intensified from 1975/76 with a view to increase yields
(para. 3.10 (ii) ). Production of seedlings in nurseries was globally
adequate although the project suffered shortages of certain species during



- 45 -
two planting seasons. To plant 7,000 ha a year at the rate of 1,400 plants
per hectare and replace 10% failures, 10.8 million new plants a year are
required. This figure was exceeded from the beginning of the project.
However, as a result of the decision to diversify pine species in 1975/76
and the difficulty of finding seeds (para. 3.10 (iv) ) there was a
temporary shortage of Pinus elliottii and Pinus caribaea until 1977 and
even then, production was limited because of low germination rates.
However, adequate supplies of the two species are available since 1978.
The fertilization program, as discussed above, fell behind schedule as a
result of the shortage of fertilizer in the early years. At the closing
date of the project (December 31, 1981), there was still a substantial
backlog of unfertilized plantations (para. 3.10 (v) ). Supervision reports
do not mention the status of weeding operations, which, according to the
appraisal report, were to be carried out manually to eliminate grasses
where heavy vegetation hindered the growth of seedlings. Brushwood
clearing, to eliminate heavy growth of heather where necessary before land
preparation, was carried out over a limited area, as most heather growth
occurred in the northern division where planting was stopped after 1977
(para. 3.12). The most specific disease control action was research on and
treatment against dieback of Pinus kesiya, described in paras. 3.10 (iii)
and 3.18.
3.18   Other components (Table 3).    The appraisal report provides that 12%
of the net plantation area should be constructed as firebreaks (in addition
to the unplanted valley bottoms which act naturally as firebreaks),
representing 840 ha per annum or 84 km per annum of firebreaks 100 m wide.
As shown in Table 3, this target has been exceeded since 1975/76. Fire
watch towers have also been built in adequate numbers. However recent
visits by FAO-consultants (late 1981) have pointed out that firebreaks were
insufficiently maintained.   Over the past three years fire has destroyed
about 260 ha in 1978, L70 ha in 1979 and 60 ha in 1980, altogether 590 ha.
This total represents Less than 1% of the total area planted but, according
to the last Bank supervision mission, should not be allowed to increase
substantially. Roads were somewhat behind schedule in the early years but,
together, length of roads and tracks exceeded targets by 1979.     The
building component was completely rescheduled because of the plantation
reorganization (para. 3.08). Project headquarters were completed in 1979
(para. 3.34). Research was carried out through the agricultural research
institute, CENRADERU, now called FOFIFA, with which a four year contract
was signed in the first half of 1976. This contract covered research in
forestry, mainly to determine means of overcoming dieback of P. kesiya and
to continue the existirtg plantation trials, and research in agriculture and
livestock to improve local methods of production in relation to the
agro-pastural component (para. 2.23). The expatriate forestry adviser
(para. 2.23) was also financed under the research component. The project
unit, FANALAMANGA, carried out most of the training actions by itself in a
timely way (para. 5.04) as well as the preparation of the second phase
project (the preparatic,n report was completed in May 1979). No other
projects were prepared with funds from Credit 525 MAG or Loan 1065 MAG,
which were instead reallocated for other expense-items of the project. The



- 46 -
agro-pastural development component, although very successful with the
local villagers, remained far below the targets and behind the schedule of
appraisal due to the cost of pasture improvement, which was far higher than
estimated at appraisal (FMG 40,000/ha in December 1975 instead of FMG
10,000/ha, mainly because of the increased cost of fertilizer). This did
not have any damaging effect on the attitude of the villagers toward the
forestry project. The program of pasture improvement is scheduled to
continue during the second Mangoro forestry project.
3.19   In the latter years, the project was delayed because of
disagreements between the Bank and the Government of Madagascar on the
silvo-industrial development (para. 6.06). At appraisal the project was
expected to be completed in December 1979 and followed by additional
plantations for a possible pulpmill starting to operate in 1985, using
fifteen-year-old trees of the plantation (begun in the 1969/70 planting
season).  Hence, a second phase project was identified in October 1977 and
was to be appraised in May-June 1978. In the meantime, at the Government's
request, UNIDO/FAO were to start a prefeasibility study on the pulpmill
scheme (para. 4.02). Ilowever the magnitude of the investment in a pulpmill
became an issue within the Bank in early 1978 when estimates pointed to a
$250 million pulpmill cost, almost double the appraisal estimate ($139
million). Bank staff decided in May 1978 to wait until October and see, in
the light of the UNIDO/FAO report, whether other smaller silvo-industrial
investment possibilities should be considered. In September 1978, however,
the Government repeated its intention to build a pulpmill and stated that
there was therefore no problem in the utilization of the output of the
forest, thereby ruling out the examination of alternative investments to
the pulpmill. Shortly afterwards the FAO/UNIDO mission submitted its
report, concluding that the pulpmill would cost $387 million but seemed a
viable project nonetheless. Discussion between the Bank and the Government
did not resume until June 1979 when the Government showed signs of concern
over the ways of financing such a large investment, and willingness to
consider alternative possibilities. In October 1979 it was agreed that
plantations should continue by a short three-year second phase project
which would give time to determine the most appropriate silvo-industrial
development and to find the financial partners. The second phase project
was finally appraised in May/June 1980, two years later than was initially
expected, with the result that the first phase project had to be extended
for two additional planting seasons (1979/80 and 1980/81).
Tree Growth Estimates
3.20   Forestry inventories are not mentioned in the appraisal report as
they were to be carried out only during the second phase project. However,
the preparation report recommended the establishment of permanent sample
plots to study yields. Thus, FANALAMANGA established sample plots in early
1976 and measurements were carried out in 1977 and 1978 leading to estimate
the mean annual increment (MAI) under bark (u.b.) in 1979 at 10.5 m3/ha, on
average, for the total area planted, with the distribution shown in the
following table. This estimate was close to the 10.4 m3/ha estimate of
1976 (para. 3.10):



- 47 -
Estimated Output of the Mangoro Forest Plantations up to March 1979
Plantations as of March 1979
(ha)
Estimated                                      Production
MAI (u.b.)                                        (m3 per
(Mr3/ha)   Pre-project    Project    Total     annum)
Slopes over 25%         0           3,426        2,670    6,096            0
Slopes 13 - 25%         7           6,088        5,039   11,127      77,889
Slopes 13%             13          15,608       26,450   42,058     546,754
and under
Total                              25,122       34,159   59,281     624,643
Assuming that most plantations were carried out on flat land after 1976,
and that the distribution of the plantation at the completion of the
project is as shown below, the average MAI (u.b.) would remain virtually at
the same level (10.6 m3/ha instead of 10.5 m3/ha):
Output of the Mangoro Forest, as Estimated in 1979,
for Plantations up to 1981
Plantations up to 1981
(ha)
EstLmated                                      Production
MAI ('u.b.)                                       (m3 per
(m:3/ha)   Pre-project    Project    Total      annum)
Slopes over 25%         0           3,426        2,670    6,096            0
Slopes 13 - 25%         7           6,088        9,816   15,904     111,328
Slopes 13%
and under           ,3          15,608       34,684   50,292     653,796
Total                              25,122       47,170   72,292     765,124



- 48 -
The first opportunity to verify estimates of MAI (u.b.), disregarding the
1978 trial inventory (para. 4.03), was the full inventory carried out by
FAO consultants under the second phase project in 1981. The results,
summarized in the table below, show substantially lower MAI (u.b.)
(5.3 m3/ha) for the overall plantations than previously estimated, although
plantations made after 1976/77 with a MAI (u.b.) of 10.0 m3 probably
indicate that the corrective measures taken within the project (para. 3.10)
were effective. However, there are three reasons why the 1981 estimates
should still be confirmed. Firstly, the 1981 estimate show a great
difference with previous yield estimates; secondly the sampling rate of the
1981 inventory was very low, .007%, whereas the second Mangoro forestry
project appraisal report provides that forest inventories should be carried
out with a sampling rate of 1%; and thirdly the FAO consultants have found
that fertilizer has had no effect except on very flat sites, which
contradicts earlier findings (para. 3.09).
Output of the Mangoro Forest, as Estimated in 1981 by FAO Consultants
Plantations (ha)
Estimated
MAI (u.b.)      1976/77       After                 Production
(m3/ha)    and before     1976/77      Total   (m3 per annum)
0          28,100         2,000     30,100              0
6          10,000         2,100     12,100         72,600
12           7,700        14,400     22,100       265,200
45,800 7/      18,500    64,300        337,800
(Not included in inventory)          8,000        42,400
72,300        380,200
Reporting
3.21   Reporting by FANALAMANGA has been consistently satisfactory.      In
addition to the usual provisions on reporting requirements included in
Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement, specific reporting requirements were
suggested by the Bank staff in a letter dated May 26, 1976, to cover the
7/ This figure is, in fact, 3,000 ha more than reality (see Annex,
Table 5).



- 49 -
following items: (i) highlights, technical and administrative; (ii)
staffing; (iii) plantations (area broken down by species, area and age);
(iv) progress in all fi.elds during the period examined and cumulative; (v)
inventories (vehicles, equipment, stocks); (vi) finance (including claims
on the Bank); and (vii`) miscellaneous. FANALAMANGA followed these
recommendations, except: in the plantation area breakdown by species and
age, which would have been useful (para. 3.10 (iv) ), and usually submitted
all the required half-5'early and yearly reports in time.
Accounts and Audit
3.22   Throughout the project, FANALAMANGA presented complete and accurate
accounts, which, after 1977, were reviewed periodically by Bank staff from
RMEA. Auditing was performed satisfactorily by a local auditor,
Ms. Madeleine Ramoholimnihaso. However, some accounting statements are
missing in the Bank's files (para. 3.25).
Costs (Table 1)
3.23   Total expenditure on the Mangoro forestry project expressed in US$
exceeded by 17% the project costs as estimated at appraisal (Table 1).
However, considering that actual areas planted exceeded project targets by
35% (Table 3), the project achieved 8% lower costs than anticipated
($451/ha achieved compared with $491/ha at appraisal).
3.24   This result is the more remarkable given the cost-inflation
experienced during the implementation period. Table 4 shows that the cost
of fertilizers and 4 Wl) vehicles increased in real terms during the project
period. The same is no doubt true of fuels and lubricants (although price
data is not recorded in the project file for these items) given that the
project began shortly ifter the first oil price hike of late 1973 and
lasted beyond the second one of 1979. Cost increases were also suffered on
house construction as a result of the reorganization of FANALAMANGA
(para. 3.06).
3.25   Table 1 shows that most of the cost overruns occurred in
afforestation, which cost 331% of the appraisal estimate. Although the
accounts that would enable to understand such a large cost overrun are not
on file (para. 3.22), a partial explanation lies in: (i) 35% physical
overrun of the area planted; (ii) inflation which was presumably severe in
fuel and lubricants, a large cost factor in soil preparation; (iii) the
FANALAMANGA reorganization, which increased the cost of nurseries; and (iv)
the unforeseen cost of the zinc treatment and the higher cost of
internationally procured seed.
3.26   On the other hand, major savings were achieved by:     (i) undertaking
road construction and house building by force account instead of by
contractor (para. 3.13), which explains the cost overrun on vehicles and
equipment in Table 1; and (ii) accepting deviations from the appraisal



- 50 -
norms (wattle and clay houses rather than cement houses, tracks instead of
secondary roads). These two initiatives, which the Bank's supervision
missions agreed on, enabled the project to exceed the appraisal's physical
targets for houses and roads (see Table 3). Other savings were made by
reducing physical targets. For example, physical targets were not attained
for fertilization (para. 3.10 (v) ). In the case of pasture improvements,
the project improved only 875 ha of pastures, instead of 2,000 ha
(para. 3.18). Savings were also achieved on consultants for research and
training and preparation of agricultural projects, by relying more heavily
on the services of the Government forest research institute CENRADERU, now
called FOFIFA, and the staff of FANALAMANGA.
3.27   The shrewd cash management of foreign expenditures, especially
towards the end of the project period, when shortage of foreign exchange
resulted from delays on the decision to start the second Mangoro forestry
project (para. 3.19), was one of the features of the good performance of
FANALAMANGA. Although overall expenditure was in excess of 17%, the
project did not run out of the foreign currency provided by the IDA Credit
and Bank Loan despite the extension of the project period by two planting
seasons. As mentioned earlier, this was made possible by substituting
local for imported products and consultants, and by ensuring that the
foreign currency provided by IDA and IBRD was available for imported
goods. In this manner, the overall expenditure overrun could be covered by
the Government alone in local currency, and indeed the Government's
contribution to the project, which actually totaled FMG 1,528 million, was
far beyond the FMG 944 million (including contingencies) expected at
appraisal.
Disbursement
3.28   Disbursements began only in 1976, one year behind schedule; they
picked up in the second half of 1977 as a result of large procurement
orders and were slowed down again after June 1980, as shown in the Basic
Data Sheet. In addition to the errors made in the procurement of
equipment, the initial delays in disbursement were partly caused by some
lack of coordination between the Government's TrÈsor, in charge of
submitting claims to the Bank, and FANALAMANGA, who prepared the claims.
Also, claims were sent by mistake to headquarters when they should have
been sent to RMEA in Nairobi until this was discovered by the Bank's staff
on December 2, 1975. All these delays could probably have been avoided
with closer supervision on disbursement matters in the early stages of the
project (see also paras. 3.06 and 6.07). Subsequently, however, the
disbursement procedures were well understood and, overall, were carried out
smoothly. The slow disbursement during the latter part of the project is
the result of FANALAMANGA's effort to conserve the foreign currency for the
extended period of the project (para. 3.27).



- 51 -
Peformance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.29   The performance of the expatriate forest adviser who stayed one year
with the project was very satisfactory. He was requested by the Government
to ensure continuity with the work previously performed by UNDP/FAO in the
Mangoro forestry zone. He assisted the Director General in planning the
planting program, especially the reorganization of the plantation layout
(para. 3.08), ensured relations with the research institute CENRADERU, made
a correct diagnosis of the physiological origin of the dieback of
P. kesiya, and initiated the forest inventory, pointing out the low rate of
growth of trees planted on slopes, where soils were degraded (para. 3.09).
His termination report is a valuable document. There can be no doubt that
the expatriate adviser's qualification and experience with the previous
UNDP/FAO Mangoro projects proved useful. The same must be said of the
local staff, especially of the Director General of FANALAMANGA and the
Director of CENRADERU, as well as of the three Project Division Chiefs (in
charge of the Northern, Central and Southern Plantation Divisions), who had
been closely involved in the pre-project operations in the Mangoro zone,
and whose competence compensated for the early departure of the expatriate
forest adviser (para. 3.14).
3.30   There were no problems with suppliers.   In fact, the local
representatives of Catierpillar and Mercedes were judged so effective by the
Director General of FAlNALAMANGA, that he did not accept a supervision
mission's recommendation to grant FANALAMANGA the statute of direct
importer for fear of losing the suppliers' maintenance and repair
services. In the latter period of the project (1980 and 1981) FANALAMANGA
experienced difficulties with the increasingly stringent price revision and
payment conditions imposed by suppliers. The period for which prices were
fixed were not long enough to enable to respond to bids and the payment
conditions required the use of letters of credit with a financial cost.
3-31  Fertili7-rq were urgently needed in the early stages of the project
implementation (para. 3.10 (iv) ). Consequently the Bank agreed to allow
FANALAMANGA to make the first order directly from a Government supplier.
Subsequently, however, international competitive bidding rules were applied
normally. The second contract was won by a local importer (CPCM) and the
third by a West German supplier. The large quantities purchased required
the construction of a special warehouse. One problem encountered was
ripped bags; future orders will request double packing. There were also
local transport probleins, for which the railways were responsible, not the
suppliers.
3.32   There were no problems in the procurement of zinc chloride for
treatment of the P. kesiya dieback (para. 3.10 (iii) ).
3.33   With Bank approval, the procurement of seeds of P. elliottii and
P. caribaea was not submitted to international competitive bidding. A
problem arose when the two expected suppliers of P. elliottii seed,
Mauritius and South Africa, were no longer available (para. 3.10 (iv) ).



- 52 -
The Bank staff helped in finding new suppliers. In 1976 a first order was
placed with a Dutch firm, SETROPA, but it could not guarantee the origin of
its seeds nor their germination rates, which proved unsatisfactory. In
1978 purchases were from four other firms, but germination rates sometimes
remained disappointing. There is now the possibility of obtaining
P. elliottii seed from Zimbabwe and P. caribaea seed from Fiji.
3.34   There was two contractors involved in the project.    Firstly,
CENRADERU, now FOFIFA, conducted forestry trials (fertilizer, soil
preparation, tree density) through a four year contract with FANALAMANGA
(para. 3.18). FANALAMANGA and CENRADERU had very close working relations
and FANALAMANGA as well as Bank supervision missions were very sattisfied
with CENRADERU's research work.   In the case of dieback, CENRADERU
contributed possitively to finding the appropriate remedy quickly
(para. 3.10 (iii) ). However, if the recent low yield estimates
(para. 3.20) are confirmed, some of the research findings, especially on
the effect of fertilizer which CENRADERU studied carefully, may have to be
further scrutinized. The other contractor was employed in the project for
building the project headquarters in Antsirinala and performed quite
satisfactorily. The headquarters were completed one month ahead of
schedule (para. 3.18).
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01   The operating performance of FANALAMANGA was overall very good
although it cannot avoid being clouded by the results of the recent forest
inventory (para. 3.20).   If confirmed, these results may lead to question
the sampling methods of FANALAMANGA, which throughout the project appeared
reliable and consistent with the findings of the forest adviser
(paras. 3.10 and 3.29).
4.02   That said, the quality of FANALAMANGA's half-yearly and annual
reports on physical and financial progress reflect a high standard of
self-monitoring. Special mention should also be made of FANALAMANGA's
relations with the research institute CENRADERU or FOFIFA (para. 3.34) and
with villagers. Regarding villagers, the senior staff of FANALAMANGA
devoted the necessary time and effort to ensure that, through the opening
of roads, pasture improvement and employment of the local population, the
latter received sufficient benefits and became supporters of the Project;
hence, there was no case of resistance to the project from the local
population.
4.03   Most covenants in the Loan Agreement were complied with.    In
addition to the standard covenants on contractors (no problem), insurance
of imported goods (no problem), and reporting (good performance), the
following covenants (with reference to the section number of the Loan
Agreement) were complied: Section 4.03 (b) - recruitment of senior staff;
Section 3.03 - consultants, indeed the qualification of the local staff



- 53 -
made this covenant almost irrelevant; Section 3.07 - monitoring of Mangoro
river water. Section 3.07 also contained a covenant requiring that the
Bank be informed of any arrangements concerning the construction of the
plant. The only instance of non compliance occurred in 1978 when the
Government requested a large prefeasibility study from UNIDO on the
silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro program without informing the
Bank (para. 3.19). To the extent that this study confirmed the
advisability of an enlarged pulpmill (270,000 tons per annum capacity) and
thereby supported the Government's reluctance to investigate smaller
silvo-industrial alternatives, this non compliance contributed in
disrupting and delaying discussions with Bank staff on the second Mangoro
project (para. 6.06), and entailed financial difficulties for FANALAMANGA
(para. 3.27).
4.04   Only in two minor cases did FANALAMANGA show signs of clumsiness:
the first procurement bids and the trial inventory of 1978. The first case
is discussed in para. 3.06. The trial inventory took three years to
process and produced very scanty results (para. 3.20). However,
FANALAMANGA did not have the trained capacity to carry out a full inventory
and used the opportunity of a trial inventory to train its personnel, which
was appropriate. The full inventory, after all, was to be carried out
during the second phase, not during the first phase project. In addition,
much of the delay occurred because of very slow computer processing in the
University of Madagascar, outside FANALAMANGA. Admittedly, however, had
FANALAMANGA followed the Bank supervision missions' advice to hire a
reliable foreign firm rather than use the overloaded computer facilities
available locally, the delays could have been avoided. On the other hand,
the supervision missions were probably right to accept FANALAMANGA's
decision given the trial nature of the exercise and the scarcity of foreign
exchange in the latter years of the project.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
5.01   The good institutional performance of FANALAMANGA is the more
outstanding as institutional problems are the common rule of almost all
other agricultural projects in Madagascar (para. 1.11). FANALAMANGA
quickly established a full set of departments and engaged a qualif ied staff
to carry out its operations effectively. The four main reasons and
features of the rapid establishment and good institutional performance of
FANALAMANGA are reviewed in the following paragraphs.
Staff ing
5.02   In addition to the employment of the Director General of
FANALAMANGA, which was a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.04), the
senior staff of FANALAMANGA, including a local workshop engineer, a
qualification rare in the country, were recruited by June 1975, within the
agreed time limit.  In addition, FANALAMANGA was staffed with personnel



- 54 -
from the pre-existing governmental operations in Mangoro. As a result,
staffing in June 1976 was almost complete, as shown in the following table:
June 1976   Appraisal
Senior staff                        7           9
Technicians                        32          38
"Agents de maitrise"              160         190
(foremen or supervisors)
Specialized workers               371         395
Workers                         1,300       1,380
Total                           1,870       2,012
Statutes
5.03   During negotiations, the Malagasy delegation proposed that the
project be carried out not by a project unit within the Ministry of Rural
Development, as discussed during the project appraisal, but by a SociÈtÈ
d'Economie Mixte, a corporation comprising both Government and private
interests (para. 2.20). As a separate entity from the Ministry of Rural
Development, FANALAMANGA has a separate budget, and the authority to handle
large procurement orders on an independent basis, conditions which the Bank
considered important at appraisal. The results of the project have shown
that FANALAMANGA made reasonable and effective use of its autonomous
powers.
Training
5.04   Performance of FANALAMANGA was good practically from the beginning.
Hence, as there was virtually no need to develop the institution or improve
its performance, the training activities were simply geared to maintaining
the high level of performance. The training activities consist of: (i)
fire protection - every year, one month before the high fire risk period,
the fire personnel (about 120 people) receive refresher training; (ii)
workshop refresher training - every year about ten of the forty workshop
workers receive refresher training in Antananarivo from the main suppliers
of vehicle and equipment; (iii) forest inventory personnel receive within
FANALAMANGA ten day refresher courses twice a year on topography, photo
interpretation and cartography; and (iv) accounting courses - in 1980 the
financial director organized a three week seminar for 15 members of his
staff at the project headquarters. In addition one accountant was sent for
a one month long accounting course in a specialized public training
corporation outside the institution.



- 55 -
Lack of Political Interference
5.05   Compared to other projects in Madagascar, the implementation of the
Mangoro forestry proje,t seems to have benefitted from the lack of
political interference. There are several reasons for this, an important
one being the mentality of the senior project staff and the senior
foresters of the Foreslry Directorate of the Ministry. Another important
reason is that the impLementation of the project required relatively little
interference with potentially disrupting socio-economic forces. For
example, the project dÓd not have a direct impact on a large number of
farmers, nor did its irmplementation include any form of marketing. In
short the project implementation was essentially technical. By contrast,
difficulties appeared when the project required a political decision
regarding silvo-industrial project development (para. 3.19).
5.06   Of the four reasons explained above (staffing, statutes, training,
and lack of political interference), the key factor for FANALAMANGA's good
institutional and operational performances was the high standard of its
senior staff, in particular of the Director General. Because of the
growing shortage of highly qualified staff in Madagascar, the replacement
of the senior staff is now a potential problem. There have been no new
professionally qualified foresters (IngÈnieurs des Eaux et ForÍts) since
1972. The workshop engineer and the financial director could easily earn
twice their current salaries outside FANALAMANGA. Many of the key officers
appear to be retained niostly by the team spirit existing among
FANALAMANGA's staff and the satisfaction resulting from the project's
achievements.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01   The basis of the analysis of Bank performance outlined below is
firstly identification and resolution of issues, and secondly, project
supervision.
Issues
6.02   Did the Bank foeus on the right issues?   In retrospect, there were
four main issues: (i) the support of the local villagers; (ii) land
tenure; (iii) the creation of a separate project entity; and (iv) the
development of a silvo-industrial complex to process and market the project
output. Tree growth should not be considered an issue but rather a well
recognized risk, as mentioned in the appraisal report, para. 7.07 (see also
paras. 2.10 (ii) and 8.01 of this report). The four issues were correctly
identified at appraisal, and, as the following comments will show, three of
them were adequately solved at an early stage, while the fourth slowed down
the progress of the project, not because of poor Bank performance, but
because it had a highly political connotation.



- 56 -
6.03   Support of Local Villagers.    As a result of the Bank's unfortunate
experience in the Madagascar Beef Cattle Development Project (see' OED
Report No. 1559. ADril 11. 1977). the preparation mission
required a socio-economic study from the Government as part of the
preparation of the project (para. 2.17). However, conditions in the
Mangoro forestry zone were more favorable than the conditions prevailing in
the Beef Cattle Development Project area. The Mangoro forestry zone is
sparsely populated (11,000 people living in 2,000 households in 1973) and
the villages are concentrated in the valleys. It might therefore appear
that, given the more favorable conditions, the Bank was overcautious on
this issue.   However, the completion mission believes the Bank was not
overcautious, and bases its opinion on the observation that the project
director was highly aware of the issue and spared no effort to ensure the
population's support, devoting the necessary time to maintaining good
relations with the village chiefs and notables, in addition to the roads,
health and education benefits which the project provided to the local
population. Thus, it is the mission's view that the good relations between
the project and the local population fully justify the Bank's precautions.
6.04   Land Tenure.   The Bank staff was successful in obtaining that the
afforestation zones be gazetted before starting the project (para. 2.18),
although the issue was granted much less significance when plantations were
carried out outside the initial perimeter (para. 3.11).
6.05   Creation of a Separate Project Entity.    In retrospect, the
effectiveness of FANALAMANGA's management is sufficient evidence that the
establishment of a project entity with a separate budget and authority for
procurement was appropriate. The Bank's legal services contributed in
drafting the statutes which were agreed in early November, thereby
satisfying in time a condition of Board presentation. The establishment of
FANALAMANGA, a condition of effectiveness, occurred late, on June 4, 1975,
but this was due to political turmoil beyond the Bank's control.
6.06   Silvo-industrial Complex.    The issue of the development of a
silvo-industrial complex had been thoroughly examined during the
preparation (para. 2.13), but it was raised again in 1978 as part of an
early consideration of IDA support for the next phase of the program
(para. 3.19). Although it caused considerable delay in the preparation of
the second phase of the project, these delays were undoubtedly justified by
the magnitude of the investment at stake and the necessity of convincing
the Government to examine options other than a pulpmill. Did the Bank give
the wrong impression that it was fully supporting the idea of a large
pulpmill and thereby contribute to commit the Government to this idea?
Clearly, the Government was already strongly attached to the idea of a
pulpmill before the Mangoro project was even started, as evidenced by the
statements in the 1974-1977 Development Plan providing for a pulpmill at
Matsiatra (para. 2.10). Bank staff, in the appraisal report, did not
exclude the option of exporting wood chips and roundwood as a fall back
position to the pulpmill (para. 2.16). Subsequently, the rising cost of
the pulpmill led the Bank to point out to the Government that other



- 57 -
investment options to foLlow-up on the forestry project should also be
considered. The difficulty in reaching agreement with the Government was
the main cause of the delays incurred in the latter part of the project
(para. 4.02).
Supervision
6.07   The Bank's performance in project supervision was overall very
satisfactory, and made relatively straightforward by the thorough
preparation of the project, the competence of the Director General of
FANALAMANGA, as well as good understanding and collaboration between the
Bank and project staff. The continuity of Bank staff was one factor of
success. The Bank also showed open mindedness and flexibility in several
cases of problem resolution mentioned in the report, including the
procurement of fertilizer under conditions of urgency (para. 3.31), the
reorganization of the plantation layout (para. 3.08), and the use of
earthballs rather than plastic tubes in the nurseries (para. 3.15).
However, as mentioned in paras. 3.06 and 3.28, one difficulty arose for
lack of bank assistance in preparing the first procurement document.
Despite the project director's best efforts to act in accordance with the
Bank's written guidelines, mistakes resulted from the fact that the project
staff was not well acquainted with Bank procedures at the beginning of the
project. Assistance frcm locally based Bank staff could probably have
avoided these predicable mistakes.
6.08   The good standard of the Bank's supervision performance is not
diminished by recent yield estimates (para. 3.20). Indeed, the supervision
missions took the necessary steps to monitor tree growth adequately, as
reflected in the following actions: (i) measures recommended at an early
stage (para. 3.09) effectively improved yields, as shown by the higher
yields of the younger plantations (para. 3.20); (ii) adequate monitoring of
sampling, which were carried out on schedule (para. 3.20); and (iii) proper
advice concerning the computer data treatment of the trial inventory
(para. 4.04). Therefore, although the recent yield estimates are creating
doubts on previous yielcl forecasts based on the samplings, the completion
mission believes that these estimates do not bring into question the
quality of the Bank's supervisions which relied confidently, and with
reasons, on FANALAMANGA's technical capacities.
VII. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
7.01   The Project was beneficial to the environment of the Mangoro
Valley. Tree cover reduces erosion and improves soil fertility and water
retention. Special care was taken to avoid land use conflicts
(para. 2.23). However, the ultimate environmental impact of the Mangoro
afforestation program will depend on the nature of the silvo-industrial
development program stiLl to be decided.



- 58 -
VIII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
8.01   The financial and economic evaluation models used at appraisal
included the whole industrial development, which was assumed to be a large
pulpmill, and showed a financial rate of return of 10% and an economic rate
of return of 13% (by shadow pricing the exchange rate and wage rates at
125% and 75%, respectively, of their official and market values). However,
it would now be meaningless to use the same model, given the expected low
output of the forest (para. 3.20) and the consequent unlikelihood of
establishing a large pulpmill. It is also too early to judge what other
industrial developments are posssible, although this should be known in the
course of 1982. For the time being it is therefore only possible to carry
out the economic and financial reevaluation of the project by disregarding
the subsequent industrial development and considering the plantations
alone. This required developing a model based on stumpage rates (Annex).
8.02   The table below shows the rates of return of the plantations alone,
at appraisal and at completion, based on actual costs. Two stumpage rates
are used: FMG 710/m3 (US $2.78), the stumpage rate used at appraisal,
which gives a low rate of return; FMG 1,550/m3, based on an opportunity
cost of capital of 10%, assuming appraisal cost estimates. The actual
rates of return are considerably lower, not because of costs, which in fact
are lower on a per hectare basis (para. 3.23), but because of the lower
output of the forest (6.8 million m3 after 18 years of tree growth instead
of 10.0 million m3 after 15 years, as assumed at appraisal) reflecting the
pessimistic 1981 estimates on yields (Annex, Table 5, and para. 3.20). To
obtain a financial rate of return of 10%, the stumpage rate would now have
to be FMG 3,000/m3 in 1974 FMG, equivalent in 1981 to FMG 5,710/m3 or US
$22.00/m3. This is considerably above the level of reasonable stumpage
rates for pulpwood today (approximately US $5.00 to US $10.00).
Rates of Return (RR) of Plantations Alone
Stumpage
rates
(in 1974
FMG)                 710                   1,550
Financial   Economic    Financial   Economic
RR         RR           RR         RR
At appraisal       3 %        5 %          10 %       12 %
Actual             1 %        2 %           6 %        7 %



- 59 -
IX. CONCLUSION
9.01   The 1981 forest inventory showing poor yields will no doubt require
confirmation, as explair.ed in para. 3.20. If the poor yields are
confirmed, the forest output will be substantially lower than expected at
appraisal and many possible downstream developments will be in jeopardy,
including the developmernt of a bleached kraft pulpmill, and possibly even
the continuation of plantations. Low yields were considered one of the
main risks at appraisal and are not, as this report has shown, the result
of any apparent shortcomning in project implementation. However, if poor
yields are confirmed, future Bank missions will probably want to look into
more details and determijne why the project sampling and research findings
were so misleading.
9.02   That a project imaplemented with great efficiency should yield such
poor results would indeed be very disappointing. Many experienced visitors
agreed that the accomplishments of FANALAMANGA were outstanding, even by
international standards. The Governnent showed great commitment to the
project and the project entity responded with imagination, competence and
diligence to a host of varied problems described in previous paragraphs of
this report, reflected Un relatively higher yields for trees planted during
the project, despite the poor performance of the pre-project plantations.
9.03   One fundamental question should be answered in conclusion to this
report: should a forestry project be undertaken with uncertain information
on the expected yields? It is the mission's opinion that the risk of
obtaining disappointing yields can never be completely eliminated. The
appraisal mission, having noted the risk, could only rely on the studies of
many highly qualified foresters who worked in the pre-project phases and
showed that the project was worth the risk. Therefore, with the
information available in 1974, the Bank was probably right to undertake the
project.






- 61 -                                  Table/Tableau 1
Page 1
MADAGAS CAR
Mangoro Forestry Project              Projet Forestier Mangoro
Project Cost and Financing          Co˚ts et Financement du Projet
(in US$ 17)                          (en $E.U. 1/)
Actual
Appraisal estimate/                        % of
Estimation de l'Èvaluation      Total       appraisal
actual cost   /Effectif %
Foreign/            /Total co˚t    Èvaluation
Components           Local    Devises   Total      effectif          2/              Composantes
Afforestation                 2 4        .8       3.2        10.6          331%      Boisement
Roads                         1.3       .5       1.8       )             )           Routes
1.3        ) 49%
Fire protection               1.0       .1       1.1       )             )           Lutte contre l'incendie
Project management                                                                   Gestion du Projet
Administration             1.9       .1       2.0          1.8           90%         Administration
Buildings and housing      1.7       .2       1.9         2.5           132%         B‚timents et logements
Vehicles and equipment         .6      1.3        1.9         3.5          184%      VÈhicules et Èquipements
Research, training                                                                   Recherche, formation
and studies                 .3        .5       .8           .3           38%         et Ètudes
Pasture improvement            .1      -           .1          .2          200%      AmÈlioration des p‚turages
Sub-total                     9.3      3.5       12.8        20.2          158%      Sous-total
Cont ingencies:                                                                     ImprÈvus:
Physical                    .2       .2         .4                                   Physiques
Price                      3.1       .9       4.0                                    Prix
Total                        12.6      4.6      17.2         20.2          117%      Total
Financing:                                                                           Financement:
a)  Bank/IDA                                 13.5         13.5          100%         a)  BIRD/IDA
b) Borrower                                   3.7         6.7           181%         b) Emprunteur
Sources:  Appraisal Report and Table 1, Page 2/Rapport d'Evaluation et Tableau 1, Page 2.
1/ Exchange rates used:   FM4G 255/US$ at appraisal and FMG 228/US$ for actual costs/Taux de change utilisÈs:
FMG 255/$E.U. ‡ l'Èvaluation et FMG4 228/$E.U. pour co˚ts effectifs.
2/ For comments please see para. 3.23 in text/Pour commentaire veuillez lire para. 3.23 du texte.
February 11, 1982                                                                 le Il fÈvrier 1982



- 62 -
Table/Tableau I
Page 2
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project                               Projet Forestier Mangoro
Actual Project Expenditures by Fiscal Year           DÈpenses Effectives du Projet par AnnÈe Fiscale
(FMG million unless otherwise indicated)                (FMG millions sauf indication contraire)
Nov. 741                                             Estimate/              Total
June 761                                              1980/81                US$/
nov. 74/                                            Estimation     Total    Total
Components         juin 76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79    1979/80     1980/81      FMG     $E.U.          Composantes
Afforestation            343.7      227.2     363.2     509.0      484.4       495      2,422.5     10.6   Reboisement
Construction de
Roads and fire                                                                                                routes et lutte
protection            18.1        42           7      65.6       60.1        59        285.4     1.3       contre le feu
Administration            45.1       50.5      58.9      72.7       95.3        83        405.5      1.8   Administration
Construction et entre-
Buildings and                                                                                                 tien des logements
housing                 6.7       46.4      85.8     185.1      132.3       117        573.3     2.5       et bgtiments
Equipement, vÈhicules,
Vehicles and                                                                                                  entretien et piËces
equipment              71.6       15.5     292.2      12.3       32.3       376        799.9     3.5       dÈtachÈes
Research, training                                                                                         Recherche, Ètude
and studies             -          9.8      11.4       23.8       3.1        30         78.1       .3      et formation
Pasture improvement        -           .6       7.8       14.8      11.2         2         36.4       .2   AmÈlioration de p‚turage
Total                    485.2      392.9     859.0     883.3      818.7     1,162.0    4,601.1     20.2   Total
Exchange rate                                                                                              Taux de change
(FMG/US$)             231.6      242.4     235.7     219.2      212.0       235.7      228.1               (FMG/$E.U.)
Total in US$               2.1        1.6       3.6        4.0       3.9         4.9       20.2            Total en dollars E.U.
Source: Annual report of FANALAMANGA and last IBRD supervision report/Rapports annuels de FANALAMANGA et dernier rapport de
supervision BIRD.
February 11, 1982                                                                                          le Il fÈvrier 1982



- 63 -
Table/Tableau 2
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Completion Report                 Projet Forestier Mangoro
Project Organization and Objectives           Organisation et Objectifs du Projet
Appraisal/         Actual/
Evaluation         RÈalitÈ
Project objectives or focus:                                               Objectifs ou cible du projet:
Afforestation (ha)                        35,000            47,170         Boisement (ha)
Project organization and performance:                                      Organisation et rÈsultat du projet:
Project unit (FANALAMANGA)             New/Nouveau        Good/Bon         Bureau du Projet (FANALAMANGA)
Institution building:                    Recruitment of      Achieved/     L'Institution:
Focus of effort                        senior staff/       RÈalisÈ         PrioritÈ
Recruitement
des cadres
Means                                   Condition of     Fulfilled/        Moyens
effectiveness/     Satisfaite
Condition d'en-
trÈe en vigueur
Wider sector effort                     None/Aucune      None/Aucune       VisÈe sectorielle
Consultants use and performance:                                           Emploi et performance des
consultants:
Identification                                            Good/Bon         Identification
Preparation                                               Good/Bon         PrÈparation
Appraisal                                                 Good/Bon         Evaluation
Project executives                                        Good/Bon         Cadres du Projet
Project adviser                                           Good/Bon         Conseiller du Projet
Special studies                                          None/Aucune       Etudes spÈciales
Researchers                                               Good/Bon         Chercheurs
Focus of effort                                         Tree growth/       PrioritÈs
Croissance
des arbres
Means                                                    Pre-project       Moyens
plantations/
Plantations
de l'avant-
projet
Achievement of objective                                 Poor/Maigre       RÈalisation de l'objectif
February 11, 1982                                                             le 11 fÈvrier 1982



Table/Tableau 3
Page I
MADAGAS CAR
Mangoro Forestry Project - Phase 1 Completion Report            Projet Forestier hangoro - Phase I Rapport d'AchËvement
Physical Work Schedule of the Project 1/                           RÈalisations Physiques du Projet 1/
Key Indicators                                               Principaux Indicateurs
Actual %
Sub-total                                  appraisal/
2/                                           /Total                                    Evaluat ion
1973/74   1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1977/78    1978/79    partiel    1979/80    1980/81    Total   rÈalisÈ en Z
Planted area (ha)                                                                                                                                                Surface plantÈe (ha)
Appraisal                                    -     7,000     7,000      7,000     7,000     7,000       35,000         -         -   35,000          -           Evaluation
Actual                                       -     6,190 3/  5,470 1/   6,200 4/  7,995     8,780       34,635     6,935     5,600   47,170        135 Z         RÈalisÈ
Roads (ha)                                                                                                                                                       Routes (ha)
Appraisal:  Service roads                   19        37         -         -          -         -          56          -         -        -          -           Evaluation:  Routes de service
Primary/secondary              56        168       168       168        168       112         840         -          -        -         -                         Principales/Becondaires
Plantation tracks              60       182        182       182       182        122         910         -          -        _         _                         Pistes
Total                                      135       387       350        350       350       234        1,806         -         -        -          -           Total
Actual:     Service roads                    -         -         -         -          5.5      12           17.5       9        21       47.5        -           RÈalisÈ:     Routes de service
Pritsary roads                  -         34       165        21        16          3         241        64         60      365         -                         Routes principales
Secondary roads                 -         34        79        70         42        78         303        62          -      365         -                         Routes secondaires
Plantation tracks               -       130        293       184       448        574       1,629       265          -    1,894         -                         Pistes
Total                                        -       200       537        275       511       667       2,190        400        81    2,671        148 Z         Total
Firebreaks (km)                                                                                                                                                  Pare-feu (km)
Appraisal                                   20        58        58         58        58        38         250          -         -        -          -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -         34       256        179        51        88         608        247       243    1,098       379 Z          RÈalisÈ
Buildings and houses                                                                                                                                             B‚timents et logements
Appraisal:  Exploitation                     8        15         -          -         -         -           23         -         -        -          -           Evaluation:   B‚timents
Houses:                                                                                                                                                           Logements:
Hard                        15        29                                                    44         -          -                                               Dur
Prefabricated              370       740          -         -         -          -       1,110         -          -        -         -                            PrÈfabriquÈ
Total houses                               385       769         -         _          _         -       1,154          -         _        _          _           Total logements
Actual:     Exploitation:                                                                                                                                        RÈalisÈ:     BÈtiments:
Brick and concrete           -         -          -         2         4         10          16         5          3       24    )                                 Dur
Waffle and clay              -         -          -         3         10         3          16         6          -       22    ) 200 Z                           Semi-dur
Houses:                                                                                                                                                           Logements:
Brick and concrete           -         -          -         -        41        162         203       147        30       380         -                            Dur
Waffle and clay              -       156        624        34       101          9         924       103        56     1,083         -                            Semi-dur
Prefabricated                -        41        485         -         -          -         526        29         -       555        _                             PrÈfabriquÈ
Total                                       -        197     1,109        34        142       171        1,653       279        86    2,018        175 Z         Total



Table/Tableau 3
Page 2
Actual %
Sub-total                                 appraisal/
2/                                          /Total                                    Evaluat ion
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79     partiel    1979/80   1980/81    Total   rÈalisÈ en X
Pasture improvement (ha)                                                                                                                                      AmÈlioration de p‚turages (ha)
Appraisal                                   -       400       400       400       400       400       2,000         -          -    2,000         -           Evaluat ion
Actual                                      -         -        14        55       362       248         679        203         1      883        44%          RÈalisÈ
Survey (ha)                                                                                                                                                   Reconnaissance (ha)
Appraisal                               2,330     7,000     7,000     7,000     7,000     4,670      35,000         -          -   35,000         -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -     7,000     7,000     7,000    11,400    14,200      46,600     10,500     6,000   63,100       180 Z         RÈalisÈ
Plants (millions)                                                                                                                                             Plantes (millions)
Aooraisal                                   3.6      10.8      10.8      10.8      10.8       7.2        54.0       -          -       54.0       -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -        11.4      13.9      11.9        .       '5.1        67.3    Ù    .9       G.G0       ^     157 I         R   i
Land preparation (ha)                                                                                                                                         PrÈparation du sol (ha)
Mechanical (sub-soiling):                                                                                                                                     MÈcanique (sous-solage):
Appraisal                            1,630     4,900     4,900     4,900     4,900     3,270      24,500         -          -   24,500         -              Evaluation
Actual                                   -     4,130     4,310     7,445     7,815    10,500      34,200     6,700      3,215   44,115       180 Z            RÈalisÈ
Manual (hole-pitting):                                                                                                                                        Manuelle (trouaison):
Appraisal                              700     2,100     2,100     2,100     2,100     1,400      10,500         -          -   10,500         -              Evaluation
Actual                                   -     1,200     1,270         -         -         -       2,470        35          2    2,507        24 7            RÈalisÈ
Total:                                                                                                                                                        Total:
Appraisal                            2,330     7,000     7,000     7,000     7,000     4,670      35,000         -          -   35,000         -              Evaluation
Actual                                   -     5,330     5,580     7,445     7,815    10,500      36,670     6,735      3,217   46,622       133 Z            RÈalisÈ
Mechanical bush clearing                                                                                                                                      DÈbroussallage
Appraisal                                 700     2,100     2,100     2,100     2,100     1,400      10,500         -          -   10,500         -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -       700       560       460     1,395         -       3,115        245       930    4,290        41 Z         RÈalisÈ
Manual plant hole preparation                                                                                                                                 Placettes
Appraisal                               1,630     4,900     4,900     4,900     4,900     3,270      24,500         -          -   24,500         -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -     2,860     5,170     5,990     5,900     8,580      28,500     6,430      2,230   37,160       152 X         RÈalisÈ
Fertilization                                                                                                                                                 Fertilisation
Appraisal                                   -     7,000     7,000     7,000     7,000     7,000      35,000         -          -        -         -           Evaluation
Actual                                      -       400     1,650     6,900     7,250     4,850      21,050      3,300     5,100   29,450        84 Z         RÈalisÈ
Zinc treatment (actual)                        -         -         -         -         -         -           -      5,650    19,050   24,700         -        Traitement zincique
1/ Source:   FANALAMANGA, iBRD/IDA Phase I and Phase Il appraisal reports.   Reporting periods      '!  Source:  F.\NALAMANGA, BIRD/ADI et rapsorts d'Èvaluation des projets Phase I et Phase 11.
are July I - June 30. Figures from the Phase I appraisal report referred to calendar                Les pÈriodes d'activitÈ vont du ler juillet au 30 juin.   Les chiffres du rapport
years aod have been adjusted in the table to correspond to FANALAMANGA reporting periods.           d'Èvaluation Phase I correspondent aus annÈes calendaires et ont ÈtÈ ajustÈs dans ce
tableau pour correspondre ana pÈriodes d'activitÈs de la FANALAMANGA.
2/ Activities started in November 1974.                                                             2/  Les activitÈs ont commencÈ au novembre 1974.
3/ Below target because of old equipment ln insufficient numbers, difficulties in spare parts       3/ En-dessous des objectifs ‡ cause de la vÈtustÈ et de l'insuffisance e- nombre de
supply and reorganization of FANALAMANGA.                                                           l'Èquipement, la difficuiltÈ d'obtenir des piËces dÈtachÈes et la rÈorganisation de la
FAN ALAMANGA .
4/ Below target because of delays in obtaining equipment.                                           4/ En-dessous des objectifs ‡ cause des dÈlais d'obtention de l'Èquipemet.
February 11, 1982                                                                                                                                                       le il fÈvrier 1982



- 66 -
Table/Tableau 4
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Completion Report               Projet Forestier Mangoro
Prices                                        Prix
(Expressed in 1974 US$ 1/)                (ExprimÈs en $E.U. de 1974 1/)
Inputs/Moyens de Production 2/
4 Wheel drive
Stumpage                   station wagon                    Zinc        Pine
rates/                        glass/                    chloride/     seeds/
Prix                     VÈhicules ‡ 4   Fertilizer     Chlorine    Semences
sur pied     Bulldozer    roues motrices     /Engrais     de zinc      de pins
Units                m3 solid wood      150 HP        1 unit/           1 t         1 t         1 t      UnitÈs
under bark/                     1 unitÈ       (PK 21-16)
m3 de bois
plein sous
Ècorce
Estimated at                                                                                             Estimation ‡
appraisal                                                                                                l'Èvaluation
(1974)               $ 2.80        $ 84,000       $ 7,130          $ 198         n.a.       n.a.         (1974)
Prevailing prices
at completion                                                                                         Prix ‡ l'achËve-
(1981)               $ 3.55 3/     $ 73,700       $ 8,375          $ 246        $ 558        $ 63        ment (1981)
1/  1974 prices are obtained by dividing the price in FMG by the prevailing exchange rate, FMG 255/US$.      1981 prices
are expressed in 1974 US$, first, by deflating the price in FMG according to the Madagascar consumer price index
which was 258.3 in March 1981 and 144.2 in 1974, and then by applying the exchange rate of FMG 260/US$ prevailing
in 1981/Les prix 1974 sont obtenus en divisant le prix en FMG par le taux de change applicable, soit FMG 255/$E.U.
Les prix de 1981 sont exprimÈs en $E.U. de 1974, obtenus d'abord en ajustant le prix en FMG d'aprËs l'indice
des prix de dÈtail de Madagascar qui Ètait de 258,3 en mars 1981 et de 144,2 en 1974, et ensuite en appliquant le
taux de change applicable en 1981, soit FMG 260/$E.U.
2/ Input prices are obtained from the appraisal report of the first phase project and the working papers of the
appraisal report of the second phase project/Le prix des moyens de production est tirÈ du rapport d'Èvaluation de
la premiËre phase et des documents de travail du rapport d'Èvaluation de la deuxiËme phase du projet.
3/ Based on stumpage price studies for Kenya/D'aprËs des Ètudes du prix sur pied au Kenya.
February 11, 1982                                                                                le Il fÈvrier 1982



Table/Tableau 5
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project                                 Projet Forestier Mangoro
Project incrementai Timber Production            PiuducLbi˚L de Bois    ppiÈmentaira Rfsultant d- Pr-c-  t
Pre-project 1974 (Appraisal year)/
Avant-projet 1974 (AnnÈe de l'Èvaluation)
Yield (m3
under bark
Cropping         Area       /ha) per
Area         intensity      cropped       annum/
development       (ratio)         (ha)/      Rendement      Output     Price    Value
(ha)           /Taux      Superficie     (m3 sous    ('000 m3)/     (1974 US$)/
/Superficie     d'abattage      abattue     Ècorce/ha)    Production    Prix   Valeur
(ha)      (proportion)       (ha)         par an      ('000 m3)     (1974 $E.U.)
1.  Without project                                                                                                      1.  Sans projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate)        24,600            -              -            13            -         2.8      -             de l'Èvaluation)
2.  Without project                                                                                                      2.  Sans projet (estimation
(completion estimate)       24,600            -              --                         -         3.6      -             ‡ l'achËvement)
3.  With project                                                                                                         3.  Avec projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate)        24,600            -              -           13             -         2.8      -             de l'Èvaluation)
4.  With project                                                                                                         4.  Avec projet (estimation
(completion estimate)       24,600            -              --                         -         3.6      -             ‡ l'achËvement)
February 11, 1982                                                                                                           le Il fÈvrier 1982



Table/Tableau 5
Page 2
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project                                Projet Forestier Mangoro
Project Incremental Timber Production            Production de Bois SupplÈmentaire RÈsultant du Project
1981 (Completion year) 1//
1981 (AnnÈe d'achËvement) 1/
Yield (m3
under bark
Cropping        Area        /ha) per
Area         intensity      cropped       annum/
development       (ratio)        (ha)/       Rendement     Output      Price   Value
(ha)           /Taux      Superficie    (m3 sous     ('000 m3)/    (1974 US$)/                                    a,
/Superficie     d'abattage      abattue     Ècorce/ha)   Production    Prix   Valeur                                   C
(ha)       (proportion)      (ha)         par an      ('000 m3)    (1974 $E.U.)
1.  Without project                                                                                                      1.   Sans projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate)          24,600            -             -            13            -         2.8      -            de l'Èvaluation)
2.  Without project                                                                                                      2.   Sans projet (estimation
(completion estimate)         24,600            -             -             -            -         3.6      -            ‡ l'achËvement)
3.  With project                                                                                                         3.   Avec projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate 1/)       59,600            -             -            13            -         2.8      -            de l'Èvaluation 1/)
4.  With project                                                                                                         4.   Avec projet (estimation
(completion estimate)         72,300            -             -             5.3          -         3.6      -            ‡ l'achËvement)
1/  Completion year was estimated to he 1979, n ot 1981, at a ppraisal/L'annÈe d'achËvement devait Ítre 1979 et non pas 1981, d'aprËs
l'Èvaluation.
February 11, 1982                                                                                                         le Il fÈvrier 1982



Table/Tableau 5
Page 3
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project                               Projet Forestier Mangoro
Project Incremental Timber Production           Production de Bois SupplÈmentaire RÈsultant du Project
Full development (1990s)/
DÈveloppement complet (AnnÈes 1990)
Yield (m3
under bark
Cropping        Area        /ha) per     Age of
Area        intensity      cropped       annum/       trees
development       (ratio)        (ha)/      Rendement   (years)/     Output      Price    Value
(ha)          /Taux      Superficie    (m3 sous      Age des   ('000 m3)/      (1974 US$)/
/Superficie    d'abattage      abattue     Ècorce/ha)    arbres    Production     Prix   Valeur
(ha)      (proportion)      (ha)         par an     (annÈes)    ('000 m3)      (1974 $E.U.)
1. Without project                                                                                                                1. Sans projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate)        24,600          7%           1,640         13           15           320      2.8   896,000           de l'Èvaluation)
2. Without project                                                                                                                2. Sans projet (estimation
(completion estimate)       24,600          -                -          -            -             -      3.6         -           ‡ l'achËvement)
3. With project                                                                                                                   3. Avec projet (estimation
(appraisal estimate)        96,000          7%           6,400         13           15         1,248      2.8 3,494,400           de l'Èvaluation)
4. With project                                                                                                                   4. Avec projet (estimation
(completion estimate)        n.a.           6%            n.a.          5.3         18          n.a.      3.6     n.a.            ‡ l'achËvement)
February 11, 1982                                                                                                                   le Il fÈvrier 1982






- 71 -
Annex/Annexe
Page i
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project
Model for tile Calculation of the Financial and Economic Rates of Return
The model was built to calculate and compare the financial and
economic rates of return of the project as they appeared at appraisal and
at completion. The benefits of the project are the volume of unfelled
trees resulting from the pre-project and project plantations. Pre-project
plantations were included in the benefits as in the appraisal report.
Costs are those incurred during the project, plus the costs of maintaining
the plantations after t:he project until the trees are sold, assuming no
further plantations are made.   Pre-project costs are considered sunk costs,
as in the appraisal report. Post-project maintenance costs are estimated
on the basis of costs incurred during the project period (Appraisal Report,
Annex 3, Table 1). Un:Less otherwise indicated, the following figures give
the percentage of average annual project costs retained as annual
maintenance costs for t:he post project period. The percentage of foreign
exchange (F. E.) indicated was used in shadow pricing for the economic
evaluation (completion mission estimates).
Annual Mainl:enance Costs as % of Annual Project Costs
Afforestation:                   Only one year of weeding after the
completion of the project.
Roads and fire control:          47% (20% F.E.).
Administration:                  50% (5% F. E.).
Building and housing:            20% (10% F. E.).
Vehicles and equipment:          15% (67% F. E.).
Research training and studies:   25% (60% F. E.).
Pasture improvement:             60% (0% F. E.).
Physical contingencies:          10% on roads (other than service
roads), buildings and housing,
vehicles and equipment
(50% F. E.).



- 72 -
Annex/Annexe
Page 2
Post project maintenance costs are gradually reduced as the forest
is sold.
For calculating the economic rate of return, shadow pricing was
applied based on the appraisal report scenario, i.e. 125% on foreign
exchange and 75% on labor 1/. As a result, total costs are increased by 2%
during the project period. Post project economic costs are therefore
obtained by increasing financial costs by 2%. The output is considered
exportable and therefore increased, like the exchange rate, by 25%.
1/ The labor component is obtained from the appraisal report, Annex 2,
Table 3, assuming that the indicated man-days per ha should be applied
to 7,000 ha per annum, that there are 250 man-days in a man-year and
that the average annual wage was FMG 78,350 in 1974 (Appraisal Report,
Annex 3, para. 2).
February 11, 1982



- 73 -                                             Annex/Annexe
Table/Tableau- 1
?1ADAGASCAR
Mangoro Foiestry Project                               Projet Forestter Mangoro
Plroject Financial aud Economic Evaluation           Evalulation FinanciËre et Economique du Projet
(Based on Appiaisal Estimates)                   (D'aprËs les estimations de l'Èvaluation)
(1974 FltG million)                            (million de FMG aux prix de 1974)
Incremeutal benefits                                  Incremental benefits
/Re-nÈfices                          Net              /BÈnÈfices                             Net
Costs/CoGts             supplÈmentaires                      economic         supplÈmentaires                        econiomic
Financial    kenefits/                                 Financial     benefits/
1/             cash flow/     BÈnÈfices               1/               cash flow/    BÈnÈfices
Financial/  Economic/     Financial/   Economic/    TrÈsorÈrie    Èconomiques   Financial/   Economic/     TrÈsorÈrie    Èconomiques
Financiers Economiques    Financiers Economiques    financiËre        nets      Financiers Economiques     financiËre        nets
(Sl.umpage rate:   MIG 710/m3 unler bark)            (Stumpage rate:   FMi 1,550/m3 unÔer bark)
(Pr x sur pied:   FMG 710/m3 sous Ècorce)            (Prix sur pied: FMG 1,550/m3 sous Ècorce)
1974          319        339                                     (319)        (339)                                     (319)        (339)
1975       1,356       1,468                                  (1,356)       <1,468)                                   (1,356)      (1,46S)
1976         473         465                                     (473)        (465)                                     (471)        (465)
1977          443        427                                     (443)        (427)                                     (443)        (427)
1978         455         439                                     (455)        (439)                                     (455)        (439)
1979         328         304                                    (328)         <309)                                     (328)        (309)
Total       3,374      3,447
1980          179        183                                     (170)        (I1P)                                     (179)        <183)
1981          176        180                                     (176)        (180)                                     (176)        (IR0)
1982          176        180                                     (176)        (180)                                     (176)        (180)
1983          176        180                                     (176)        (180)                                     (176)        (180)
1984          176        180                                     (176)        (180)                                     (176)        (180)
1985          176        180          466         5S3             290          403          1,019      1,273             842        1,093
1986          176        180          520          650            344          470          1,136      1,420             960        1,240
1987          176        180          555          694            370          514          1,21?      1,515           1,036        1,335
1988          176        180          766          958            590          778          1,672      2,090           1,496        1,910
1989          100        103          782          97R           682           875          1,708      2,135           1,608        2,032
1990          100        103          792          90n           692           887          1,728      2,160           1,628        2,058
1991          100        103          801        1,001            701          898          1,74g      2,185           1,648        2,082
1992           36         36          811        1,014            775          978          1,769      2,211           1,733        2,175
1993          36          36          819        1,024            775          988          1,789      2,236           1,753        2,200
1994          36          36          803        1,003            775          967          1,753      2,191           1,717        2,155
Rates of Return/                                      Rates of Return/
Taux de RentabilitÈ                                   Taux de RentabilitÈ
Financial:/   Economic:/                              Financial:/   Economic:/
FinanciËre: Economique:                               FinanciËre: Economique:
3%         5%                                        107          12I
1/ The physical output is shown in the Appraisal Report, Annex 6, Table 2/La production en volume est indiquÈe dans le Rapport
d'Evaluation, Annexe 6, Tableau 2.
February 11, 1982                                                                                                  le Il fÈvrier 1982



MADPA C.ASCA R
Mangoro Forestry Project                                      Pro ject Forestier M1angoro
Oetailed Project Costs (Appraisa1 flsti.ates)             DÈtail des Co˚ts do Projet (Estisatiua d,    lvlaln
(1974 PMG  illlion)                                  (en million de PFMG as. pris de 19743                                                       e
Fina.tt.1 co.ta ol   hich:                  ttoscoCsts/
/Co˚ts finasciËre dont:                   Co˚ts icooosiqses
Roads asd
lire                       B.tldings    Vehic1es      Research,
Contro1/                       and         asd         traising       Posture
Roates et                     ho.sing/   eq.ip.ent!   and st.diesl  improvement/       Physical
lotte                      B‚ti-,ets    VÈhicales    Recherche,   AÍ,lior.tios   costisgecices               Foreign                             Foreig.
Afforestatlos/     castre                           et         et        Sormattos          des         /I.prÍv.s               es-h.sge    (Sages)!     (Oth.r)/    exchasge    (Wages>!
Bois.e.et      lioteodie    Administration   Iogeentst   equtpeseot    et Ètudes       pËt,arages     physiqoes       Totl1   IDfle.Óe   (Salatres)    (Astres)    /Dlevises  (Salaires)  Total
Project Perisd!
PÍrlode do Projet
1974                         28.5            93.4          3 3 .3         98.6        10.2          37.0            2.0            15.5         318.5     (79.9)                 (238.6)      (99.9)                 3 3 9.5
1 97 5                      164.4           286.0         104.3          309.0       3 54 .7        53.7            5.0            90.2       1,356.3    (572.03     (127.2)      (657.1)    (715.03    (95.4)     1,467.5
1976                        164.4            92 .7        103.7           22.0        31.9          53.7            5.0            -            47 3. 3   (95.5)     (127.2)      (250.6)    (119.4)    (q5.4)       465.4
197 7                       164.4            98.6          99.0           22.0        31.8          2 3 .4          5 .0           -4431. 2               (62.8)     (127.2)      ( 2 53 .2)  (78.5)    (95.4)       427.1
1978                        164.4           108.0         100.4           22.0        31.3          23.4            5.0            -455.0                 (64.3)     (127.2)      (263.5)     (90.4)    (95.4)       4 39 .3
1979                        135.0            73.9          63.6           15.4        21.2          15.5            3.0            -32 7 .6               ( 53.6r)   (127.2)     (146.9)      (47.0)    (95.43       309.2
Total                       821.1           7 52 .6       503.3          488.0       481.5         206.7           25.0            95.7       3, 37 3.9  (929.1)     (636.0)    (1,909.9)  (1,160.2)   (477.0)     3 ,4 47 .0
Foot Proj.ct Period
(l.ia tena-ce)
AprÍs Projet
( Pt at eten)
1980                          2.8            70.0          50.0           20.0        15.0          10.0            3.0             9.0         179.8       -           -            -          -         -          183.0
1981                          -              70.0          50.0           20.0        15.0          10.0            3.0             8.0         176.0       -           -            -          -         -          180.0
1982                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -              -            176.0       -           -            -          -         -          190.0
1983                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -              -            176.0       -           -            -          -         -          190.0
1984                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -              -            176.0       -           -            -          -         -          180.0
1985                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -            176.0      -           -            -           -        -          180.0
Fost Froject Period
(MaIntenance and
Sel ling)
AprË   Projet
(Ent raties
et veste)
1986                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -176.0                  -           -            -           -        -          180.0
19A7                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -            176.0      -           -            -           -        -          180.0
1988                          -               -             -              -                         -              -               -            176.0      -           -            -           -        -          182.0
1989                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -            130.0      -           -            -           -        -           1n3.n
1990                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -            100.0      -           -            -           -        -          103.0
1991                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -                            100.0      -           -                        -        -          103.0
1992                          -               -             -              -           -             -              -               -             36.0      -           -            -           -        -           36.0
1993                          -               -             -                          -             -              -               -             36.0      -           -            -           -        -           36.0
1994                          --------36 .0                                                                                                                 -           -                        -        -           36.0
February 11, 1982                                                                                                                                                                                  le Il fÈvrier 1992



e e  ci v o  - -< --- -  _ r;  .7v>_´~>~4ÁCCs  s  >r hv∞b~r
-  OClCJ'CC  C L-
a: - Ll   CC C
W~~~e0         O L 0v _-- å.D  v ´ .r 0.O C  _   O fl Lfr  v v oc. .O -  _
cL     C _ C * u--e _r. <n v  S v   - .._ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ v v rl C<-Jr L
t~~~~~ E      w OLC  v 0-r-Q 
E-~~~ CS      O-  L 6 L-v                   v _a:´  Cr     -
CeL   _        .L rv=O
-.     OsE CL                                    O .Lvrir v=   C
C  .=   C   C .0                      _  _L  r  r;; _-   2O  CC
CL CC CC
CL.. _C                                       ... = 
O  C   Z  O  QCl O C  LL C _  ___e 
CL=E   CC   =h
C  Lc  C E                    0-O C L0- _    CL e .__  ____C< 
E CCL    0-C-- OJ 0 0 CtO-t.- -.0.-   t0- C O - a
_L     _  C              CC             r roO0 O-b~ r-~4 L   C Cr-   v OLH
.4   -  C  V  CV  _ -C              -:-en   I_   -C  V.- 
C- ~ _ CC                                    2_C--C., 0<
E    00(  CC c L                       -- ‘         OCw s<  O _
o _   Le e_   .OC                        ..         C
=    LL L  O E L  v                             Lo._CvL_r  cc ON  o wr  f < 
_    CLOL C Or  rC                  OL-.vLO.OvLfl.-  O  v
C -  C.n a C.  V  SC  qC  NC              .   ∞   C 0 -r Vv vX
C_. CC                           C_C
C~~~~~~~~~   v  C --  ´-                  m Dr  _r  s.  vb 0 v _J
O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r Es         .C f.07-  -Os¢v¢a  ¢¢¢¢´vvv 
COL~ ~ ~ CS  SL0-C-OCL              - 



- 76 -
-I~ ~~~    ∞ - t  t+
Ct~~~~ C
-C~~~         ~~~~~~~ C  -1k  C                                                                t o0 o r 
Cl     C_ 01  G                             k-O  t 1  - 
Ct                    CCC tC0  ICC4C
t       C----CCCC t-   C    t:     ---CCC    t _        C-CC -CC--CC--C



- 77 -
Annex/Annexe
Table/Tableau 5
MADAGASCAR
Mangoro Forestry Project                           Projet Forestier Mangoro
Estimated Outpur of Plantations                 Production en Volume des Plantations
(Based on 1981 rield estimates)            (D'aprËs les estimations de rendement de 1981)
Area yielding 6 m3        Area yielding 12 m3
per annum/                 per annum/
Superficie                 Superficie
produisant 6 m3           produisant 12 m3
par an                     par an
Total area       Non-
Season        planted     yielding                                                            Total
of           (ha)/     area (ha)/                                                          output
Year of      planting/   Superficie    Superficie       Area       Output         Area       Output      (`000 m3)/
felling/      Campagne      plantÈe         ‡            (ha)/    ('000 m3)/       (ha)/     ('000 m3)/   Production
AnnÈe          de         totale       rendement   Superficie   Production    Superficie  Production       total
d'abattage    plantation       (ha)       nul (ha)        (ha)      ('000 m3)       (ha)       ('000 m3)    ('000 m3)
Pre-project/Avant-projet
1988         1969/70       3,200         3,200             -           -             -           -             -
1989         1970/71       5,400         5,400             _     -            -                  -             -
1990         1971/72       3,900         3,900             _     -            -                  -             -
1991         1972/73       5,800         5,800             -           -             -           -             -
1992         1973/74       6,700         6,700             -           -             -           -             -
Total                     25,000        25,000             -           -             -            -            -
Project/Projet
1993         1974/75       6,190         1,300        4,000          432           890          192          624
1994         1975/76       5,470           900        3,000          324         1,570         339           663
1995         1976/77       6,200           900         3,000         324         2,300         497           821
1996         1977/78       7,995         1,430           905          98         5,660       1,222         1,320
1997         1978/79       8,780         1,430           900          97         6,450       1,393         1,490
1998         1979/80       6,935         1,430           900          97         4,605         995         1,092
1999         1980/81       5,600         1,425           900          97         3,275         707           804
Total                     47,170         8,815        13,605       1,469        24,750        5,345        6,814
Grand Total               72,170        33,815        13,605       1,469        24,750        5,345        6,814
February 11, 1982                                                                           le Il fÈvrier, 1982






X=, N] rA.s'flR-:r4 -
-~~~,        J 






42                          4-                                                       ‚ 4                         50
-12'                     MADAGASCAR                                                                                                o12
MANGORO           FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                 tnseronano
PROJET FORESTIER DU MANGORO                                                                         +
PROJECT LOCATION
LOCALISATION DU PROJ-ET
17     Mongoro Forestry Prolect area        PoVel roads                           N.,
Zone du Projer Morgtor               Pao/ts goudronnses                     NOSO8
Other forestry ond related projects _  AII-oeather rocds                        f   _   (. Vohrrrorr
Autres pro/ets oresesers             Routes accessibles en toute saison                                 e
A   Savoko ka                           Ralrays                               r
1 Savkok                             Chenr,n de fer
2     Coshewnut plontoatons               Airpr-ts                            .l        Xl,`            
LW  Plantations anacardes       r   A4 erAoorits  1                                                                      14'
Chron,,le t,e.tment - plontat,o       R,,e,s                               >                         \
3J   rrctement fero-chrom-pton           = onPrËres                                                       << Somoo
Troasn,iss,on poles and roilwoy ties-SIl  Forents                                       eno
4     Poteaux et troaerses                For˚is
_    Cinchono                            Forit,ny boundarres          Anoloho o
QCinqun n                            Limites des FarianyL                     +
Train,ng centers                    Othir on-nodeipine plantations                                          Antloha
6l0   Centres de foration roAuts plontations de pins
<>$t      /      Q~~~~~~~elondr air
Moh˚janÁaX t 040~~~~~~~~~~~~~M             roontsouio
Mahoj nqa -.         Pr e 
KILOMETERS 0  50    100   150   200
MILES O       50        100                                                                                                Ù
1                                                   S           g4              <     \       r (r                         16--
Cf-n)        C<~~~~Maroinor           Mornor1kony                   M 4ononoro
Besoiomb                       4       X  i   kel 0Trso'oonsn     Soorie,no-lvongo g&NOM
MoesnÓnsor                          4BO~~~~~~~~~RAHA
(    nocirivoa Atsinanona
M o0 z arn m bq u e                     'tS Xorofonirbe            \                          be
Mozambique          Mornrrr/r1
18' ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~       q     8 ovn                         MANGOORO - I     /,    +                             le
. / ) O/Amb=rauaronolo ( 5;7aflie f _ '=t TauTomosino
Arr,born,nianaln            ~~~Fonandrono
__ __ _____^v \-            AnlsorsÓo  A '  Manobris__/ 5Y1@ 7
h~~~~ ,                                       ANTANANARl…gl                 Prn
ohÓbÓnony    A N  D  / A  N
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                  oromona
Belo Sur A M ondrrrsozo_ o Moi{>ooitr      t Andotosmn L        Voa
Tslrlbshinc&t,5~~ -                                      Moh|onoIIr!o
-20                               <S,            9 ,          NJL  Jt    \  '         a~    ‡   ∞ ∞ oro                          20'-
oorov Mro      hobvc    ¬msisnodv   -     -`-  ;Fond rions                                  f 
/  ~~~~~< ~~ArrbomofrrnoÓorrir-rir       "unsra  -
/''         ´'                       5                / 8o Nosy VorSo
-.   F j ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      CF       
S         fS          r |  1   >!1p_    iS7i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ancinjary
V.     THIS MAP IS BASSO ON IBRD 15290,SEPTEMBER 1980,
o       F-- cTIT-LE H/AVE BEEN CHANGEO AND PROJECT
INFORMA TION ADOEO.
-22'                                                                                                                              22'-
P.- f  ( .                  W >oh be   ~   VoWlpeno  ,id r-irnms -lf e -es-ers v if
Thidenoirneti ss idrd rire
ci f   u  o   R  rafangainG  do n-i -,ply. on tihr tÓrni of
\\  /\  ABe, aka                                               l /|  ldtsiiri ∞i Oin endo sÈmeni
24'                                                                                         2 J-
o ∞  Tf Berakete  MMoir aenrirsnaOJ         A   F R   I C   A
iOCEAN
X            Taolor~~~~~~~~~~~~~lonro                    OCEANY                          f P ,.o,nrvot
MADAGASCAR
412-                       44-                          46                         48-                                            o



