Report No. 590-MAG                                                                 FC
Madagascar: Appraisal of the   FILE COPY
Mangoro Forestry Project
December 6, 1974
General Agriculture Division
East Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 - Malagasy Francs 255 (Fmg)
FiPg 1.00 - US$0.00392
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metrie System
1 hectare (ha)           =  10,000 m2 (2.46 acres)
1 kilometer (kI)         -   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) =   0.39 square miles (100 ha)
1 oubic meter (m3)       =   35.3 cubic feet
1 metrie ton (mt)            0.98 long ton
ABBREVIÂTIONS
ADÂ      - Air dried ton =
ADTPA    - Air dried ton (metric) per annum
BISP    = Bleached long fibered sulphate pulp
CTFT     = Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
DF       - The Directorate.of Forestry
MAI      = Mean annual increment
MRD      - The Ministry of Rural Development
m3(r) ub - Cubie meter round wood under bark
FISCAL YE&R
January 1 - December 31



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .. ...... .............. .        i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..,         ....................*               1
Il.   BACKGROUND .*. ..................                           2
A.   General   ........te...,,,,,,......                     2
B.   Forest Reso,rces and Industries .............           2
C.   Government Forest Services ...................          4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .....................                       4
A.   General   ............ *.     * ...........             4
B.   The Mangoro Valley Afforestation Program   .....        5
IV.   THE PROJECT ............ . .. .. .. .  ..................... .  6
A.   General Description .........................          6
B.   Detailed Features        ....................           7
C.   Project Cost .       .10........ e .
D.   Financing         .................,., , , .... il
E.   Procurement ......               ........... et.      12
F.   Disbursement . ...........    ,  . ,    ......... .    12
G.   Accounts and Audit               ........              13
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................          13
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ....................    15
A.   Yields and Production  ......* ......          ...    15
B.   Markets and Prices .....        . .. . , .,......... ,    15
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS    .......................    16
A.   Financial Evaluation .         .............. -...    16
B.   Economic Evaluation            ...................     17
This Project was prepared by Government with the assistance of both FAO and
IBRD. The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madagascar in November/December 1973 composed of Messrs. L. Ljungman and W.
Stolber (IBRD), J.Easton (FAO) and A. Huber (Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........    18
ANNEXES
1.   The Development of Forest Resources in Madagascar
2.  Project Developments
Table 1. Physical Work Schedule
Table 2.  Planting Schedule
Table 3.  Total Manpower Requirements
Table 4.  Building and Housing Standards and Unit Costs
Table 5.  Vehicles and Equipment Required for the Project
3.   Project Costs
Table 1. Project Costs
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.   Project Organization, Research and Training
6.   Production and Yields
Table 1. Summary of Yield Data in Some East African Countries
Table 2. Annual Planting Schedule, Projected Yield and
Cutting Schedule
7.   Industrial Development
Table 1. Pulp Mill: Financial Rate of Return
8.   Markets and Prices
Table 1: The Outlook for Consumption of Pulp and Paper to 1985
9.   Government Cash Flow
Table 1:  Government Cash Flow from Project
Table 2: Foreign Exchange Costs and Export Value of Output of
Program
10.   Economic Evaluation
Table 1: Cost in the Economic Analysis
Table 2: Internal Rate of Return



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
CHART
Project Organization (World Bank 9134)
MAPS
The Project Area (IBRD, 10923)
Plantation Areas in Madagascar (IBRD, 10924)






MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
SUIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        One of the main objectives of the Malagasy Government is the expan-
sion of marketable agricultural production in order both to satisfy the basic
needs of the rural population and to help generate foreign exchange earnings.
Exports of forestry products will have a special significance in this context,
as the country has considerable areas of unutilized land which although
unsuitable for either livestock or crop production, have a good potential
for forestry development. The Government afforestation program now underway
is thus designed to take advantage of this unutilized land and to concentrate
investments in an industry where Madagascar has a distinct comparative
advantage. It is also expected to help control the serious erosion problem
which has turned large areas of valuable land into savannas with limited
agricultural potential.   The proposed Project would form part of a Government
afforestation program now being implemented in the Mangoro Valley which offers
encouraging prospects for establishing large scale plantations in Madagascar,
and Government has given this program the highest priority.
ii.       The proposed Project would over five years provide for the planting
of 35,000 ha of pine plantations as well as for the development of infrastruc-
ture and forest services within the Project area. The afforestation program
would include surveying of the area to be planted, land preparation, the
establishment of nurseries, fertilization, planting, weeding and disease
control. Provision would also be made for the construction of firebreaks
and for the institution of fire control measures. Two types of roads would
be constructed: service roads connecting the divisional headquarters with
the public all-weather road network, and plantation roads. About 56 km of
service roads would be constructed and maintained; plantation roads consisting
of about 840 km of truck roads and 910 km of tracks would also be provided
for over the Project period. Provision would be made for the purchase of the
equipment necessary for the road building program; this would also be used in
the establishment and maintenance of plantations, firebreaks and other infra-
structure. A Project Headquarters would be located at Moramanga, and provi-
sion would be made for construction of offices, a central warehouse, and a
garage and workshop. As the headquarters would serve as a permanent home for
a large number of the over 1,600 laborers to be employed, provision would
also be made for the construction of permanent staff housing, prefabricated
housing units for laborers, water reservoirs, cooperative stores, and a
school, dispensary and village hall. A small pasture improvement program to
assist farmers in the Project area is also included.
iii.      The Project would be executed by FANALAMANGA, a parastatal corpora-
tion to be established by Government which would be built on part of the exist-
ing organization of the Directorate of Forestry. The Director General of
FANALAMANGA would have overall responsibility for Project implementation, and



would be responsible to a Board of Directors which vould have full responsi-
bility for policy and financial matters. As a contribution to its equity
capital, Government would make available to the corporation: (i) the existing
plantations and facilities in the Project area; (ii) Government's own con-
tribution to the cost of the Project; and (iii) an amount equivalent to the
proceeds of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit. Three Assistant Project Directors -
the Plantation Director, the Engineering Director and the Financial Director -
would supervise the day-to-day operation of the Project.  For organizational
purposes the Project area would be divided into three divisions, each with its
own headquarters.
iv.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.75 million and the Bank loan of
US$6.75 million would finance the foreign exchange costs (US$4.5 million)
and 71% of local costs (US$9.0 million). This would represent about 78%
of the total estimated Project costs of US$17.2 million. Procurement of
equipment and vehicles (US$2.0 million), fertilizer (US$0.9 million), and
civil works contracts (US$2.1 million) in orders exceeding US$30,000 would
be by international competitive bidding. Most of the infrastructural work
and the afforestation would be executed under force account, as due to
the remoteness of the area and the nature of the work it would not be likely
to attract either local or international competitive bidding.
v.        It is expected that when fully established the plantations would
provide a source of raw material for a pulp industry to be established in
Moramanga by 1985. At full production the mill would be able to process an
estimated volume of 1.5 million m3. It is estimated that about 2% of the
pulp output would be marketed domestically, and the remainder would be sold
in Europe. To meet this demand logging operations would eventually be carried
out on about 6,000 ha per annum and the area would be reforested once logging
operations had been completed. At full development (after 21 years), the
annual value of production is expected to reach Fmg 18,000 million (US$56
million). After deducting the cost of production, the net annual incremental
economic benefits attributable to the program would be about Fmg 10,000 million
(US$31 million).
vi.       The internal rate of return of the program is estimated to be 13%
over 33 years. Sensitivity tests indicate that the economic rate of return
is relatively insensitive to change in levels of cost and benefits within
reasonable ranges. Additional employment as a result of this Project would
be about 1,600 man-years annually. This figure would increase in the later
phases of the program as a result of the logging operation and the labor re-
quired in the operation of the pulp mill. Spillover effects are also expected
to accrue to small-scale farmers in adjacent areas as they increase their
agricultural production to supply the program's labor force. Unquantified
benefits would include the prevention of erosion, soil improvement, benefits
from the training and research programs, and the upgrading of the rural road
system. The Project would also be of substantial environnental benefit to
the Mangoro Valley, as it would help prevent further soil erosion, and improve
water retention and fertility.



- iii -
vii.      This would be the first Bank Group financed project to Madagascar
for the forestry sub-sector. Four loans or credits totalling US$32.7 million
have previously been approved for agricultural projects. These include two
credits for irrigation: US$5.0 million for the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Pro-
ject in 1969 and US$15.3 million in 1972 for the Morondava Irrigation and
Rural Development Project. The two irrigation projects were slow getting
underway, and the Morandava Project has encountered significant cost over-runs.
The Beef Cattle Development Project has experienced management difficulties
as well as serious conflicts with villagers in the vicinity of the ranches;
the Bank and Government have been engaged in a mutual effort to resolve these
problems, however, and considerable progress has been made over the past year.
The Village Livestock and Rural Development Project was recently approved by
the Association.
viii.     The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.75 million and a
Bank loan of US$6.75 million to the Governnment of the Malagasy Republic.






MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      One of the main objectives of the Malagasy Government is the expan-
sion of marketable agricultural production in order both to satisfy the basic
needs of the rural population and to help generate foreign exchange earnings.
Exporte of forestry products will have a special significance in this context,
as the country has considerable areas of unutilized land which although
unsuitable for either livestock or crop production, have a good potential
for forestry development. The Government afforestation program is designed
to take advantage of this unutilized land and to concentrate investments in
an industry where Madagascar has a distinct comparative advantage. It is
also expected to help control the serious erosion problem which has turned
large areas of valuable land into savannas with limited agricultural potential.
The proposed Project would form part of a Government afforestation program
now being implemented in the Mangoro Valley. The Mangoro plantations offer
encouraging prospects for establishing large scale plantations in Madagascar,
and Government has given this program the highest priority.
1.02      This would be the first Bank Group financed project to Madagascar
for the forestry sub-sector. Four loans or credits totalling US$32.7 million
have previously been approved for agricultural projects. These include two
credits for irrigation: US$5.0 million for the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Pro-
ject in 1969, and US$15.3 million in 1972 for the Morondava Irrigation and
Rural Development Project. The two irrigation projects were slow getting
underway, and the Morondava Project has encountered significant cost over-
runs. The Beef Cattle Development Project has experienced management dif-
ficulties as well as serious conflicts with villagers in the vicinity of the
ranches; the Bank and Government have been engaged in a mutual effort to
resolve these problems, however, and considerable progress has been made over
the past year. The Village Livestock and Rural Development Project was
recently approved by the Association.\
1.03      This Project was prepared by Cavernment with the assistance of both
FAO and IBRD. The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Madagascar in November/December 1973 composed of Messrs. L.
Ljungman and W. Stolber (IBRD), J. Easton (FAO) and A. Huber (Consultant).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The island of Madagascar - which acihieved independence in 1960 as the
Malagasy Republic - is situated in the Indian Ocean some 400 km off the south-
eastern coast of Africa. It has a total area of about 592,000 km2, extending
about 1,000 km from north to south and averaging about 500 km in width. The
climate and other physical conditions vary widely from the tropical climate of
the lowland coastal areas to drier sub-tropical conditions on the central
plateau where about 60% of the population is concentrated. The population of
Madagascar, estimated at 7.5 million in 1973, is growing at an annual rate of
about 2.5%. Over 85% of this total live in rural areas, and the average den-
sity is about 13 per km2.
2.02      Madagascar's rural economy is divided between a small prosperous
modern sector and the traditional sector living close to subsistence. Overail
per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was estimated at US$136 in 1970, al-
though incomes in rural areas averaged only about US$80. Overall per capita
CDP increased by little more than 1% per annum between 1966 and 1971. Tne
major factor in this disappointing performance was the fact that agricuJltural
output increased at only 2.9% annually, only slightly ahead of the rate of
population growth.
2.03      Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy of Madagascar.
it directly supports about 80% of the population, contributes about one-third
of GDP, and is the source of about 85% of foreign exchange earnings. Basic
food crops are rice, maize and manioc, while the major agricultural exports
are coffee, cloves, vanilla, pepper and beef. Forestry contributes about 2%
of GDP and forest products valued at US$2.0 million accounted for about 1% of
both total imports and total exports in 1971. About US$0.2 million of these
exports represented sawlogs and lumber.  Government revenues in 1971 from
forestry amounted to some US$0.4 million.
B. Forest Resources and Industries (Annex 1)
2.04      About 17.0 million ha (30% of the total land area) within Madagascar
is classified as forest land, and of this about 4.0 million ha has been de-
marcated as state forests. About 12.4 million ha represent productive in-
digenous forests and about 0.25 million ha pine and eucalyptus plantations.
Some 3.0 million ha of the total forest area is degraded to such an extent
that it has no productive function, and the balance is stocked with a wide
variety of hardwood species, most of which have no commercial value. The
value of these forests is also severely limited by the remoteness of the
areas and the difficulty of the terrain, both of which make access difficult
and the extraction of the small anount of merchantable timber relatively ex-
pensive.



-3-
2.05      Madagascar has extensive tracts of unutilized and sparsely populated
land which because of altitude, the unsuitability of soils and widespread ero-
sion have very low potèntial for either cropping or animal husbandry. Large
areas within these tracts are well suited to forest development, however, and
as they are also within relatively easy reach of the country's ports, Madagascar
has a potential comparative advantage for the export of forest products. These
areas are suitable for the establishment of either pine or eucalyptus plant-
ations, but in view of their significantly better wood quality, pines are
generally preferred for commercial plantations.
2.06      By 1973 about 65,000 ha of commercial pine plantations had been
established; these were located mainly in three areas: Matsiatra (30,000 ha),
Mangoro (18,500 ha), and Antsirabe (7,500 ha). In addition to these planta-
tion programs, a national reforestation scheme was initiated in 1964 to provide
timber for rural needs. About 200,000 ha of eucalyptus have been established
in small stands - often on private land - to provide firewood for use by the
railways and wood for local construction. As the cost of a reforestation pro-
gram is significantly higher in natural forest due to the inaccessibility of
the areas and the high costs of land clearance, most of these programs have
been carried out in open grassland. The total volume of hardwood saw timber
extracted annually from Malagasy forests is estimated at 400,000 m3 roundwood
under bark ((r) ub).
2.07      Forest-related industries are in the early stages of development.
Most of the logs are converted to lumber in the forest by handsawing (pit-
sawing), and only about 100,000 m3 are converted in the country's 59 sawmills,
many of which operate at substantially less than full capacity. Pitsawing
is not only inefficient but produces a product much inferior to that turned
out by the sawmills. Three forest based enterprises have been established
since 1967: a modern sawmill, a State-owned fibreboard plant, and a pulp
and paper factorv. The fibreboard plant at Moramanga has a capacity of
3,750 m tons per annum, but total output in 1972 was only about 1,000 m tons.
The pulp and paper mill in Tananarive has a rated capacity of 10,000 tons of
paper per year. It relies on imported pulp for 75% of its raw material require-
ments and produces a wide variety of papers. Total output in 1972 was 7,000
m tons, the majority of which was sold to commercial outlets in Madagascar.
In addition to these major industries, some 13 small factories produce joinery,
furniture, boxes, and parquet flooring; there is also a match factory in
Moramanga which produced a total of about 72 million boxes in 1972. A private
particle board mill is now under construction in Tananarive.
2.08      The Government is investigating the possibilities of establishing
a pulp mill producing about 120,000 air dried tons per annum (ADTPA) of un-
bleached sulphate pulp in Matsiatra about 300 km south of Tananarive. The
construction of this mill would have no adverse affect on the feasibility of
the bleached pulp mill which is expected to be constructed to process the
output from the forests established under the Project (para 3.04). The local
wood resource base at Matsiatra is sufficient to support the proposed mill and
the markets for the output of the two milis would be substantially different.



-4-
C. Government Forest Services
2.09      Overall responsibility for forest organization and management rests
with the Directorate of Forestry (DF), one of the five Directorates in the
Ministry of Rural Development (MRD). The DF has competent staff and its
performance record compares favorably with that of other Government agencies
within Madagascar and forest services in other African countries. The DF is
responsible for formulating forest policy, administering the State forests,
maintaining the provincial forest service, and implementing the large-scale
industrial plantation program. In addition, it is responsible for national
parks and wildlife protection, fresh water fisheries and soil conservation.
These activities are carried out through three service departments: (i)
reforestation and forest industries management; (ii) national parks, wild-
life and fisheries; and (iii) soil conservation. In connection with its soil
conservation responsibilities, the DF supports a broad program of forest
protection and control which is carried out by the provincial forest service.
In 1973 the DF was composed of 15 professional foresters, 30 assistant forest-
ers, and 400 forest rangers and guards. It also has a small research organi-
zation staffed with about 5 professionals.
2.10      The total budget allocation for the DF in 1973 was Fmg 1.6 billion
(USS6.3 million). About 60% of this was used to support afforestation projects
throughout the country. Fees, taxes and other revenues are collected by the
DF but are paid directly to the Ministry of Finance; in 1973 these revenues
were Fmg 90 million (US$0.4 million) derived from stumpage fees (66%), re-
forestation taxes (28%) and sale of pulpwood (6%). Royalties for extraction
of hardwood from the State forests are based on the estimated net profit of
the sales of the logs. Royalties for long fibred pulpwood have been about
Fmg 710 (US$2.80) per m3. The stumpage fee varies between 25% and 33% of the
estimated net profit and generally averages about Fmg 250 (US$1.00) to Fmg
1,200 (US$4.71) per m3, which is an acceptable level. Concessionaires are
required to pay a reforestation tax and must also deposit with the DF a sum
of Fmg 50/ha as a guarantee against any damage which is not restored according
to the terms of the concession license.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The Project would be located in the Mangoro Valley, which is centrally
located near the eastern coast of Madagascar and about 75 km east of Tananarive.
The Project area is defined by an established perimeter within which areas have
been generally selected for plantîng (Map, IBRD 10923). The land which would
be planted under the Project is currently unoccupied and unencumbered by land
claims; according to Malagasy law it is therefore considered Governnent land,



- 5 -
and is under the direct control of the DF. The gross area within this perimeter
comprises about 190,000 ha in a 20 km wide strip extending about 130 km north
from the town of Moramanga. The area lies at an altitude of between 900 and
1,100 meters and is surrounded by high mountain ridges. Annual rainfall varies
between 1,200 and 1,600 mm with a marked four-month rainy season (December-
March). The terrain is gently undulating with heavily degraded and eroded
lateritic or ferrallitic soils. The forests which originally existed in this
area have been repeatedly cut and burned, and this has resulted in the almost
complete denudation of the land. It is now typically covered by fire-resistant
grass or by heather. Two main rivers - the Mangoro and the Sahabe - provide
the major sources of water. As a result of the sparse population and the gen-
erally low agricultural potential, there are few roads in the valley, but the
railroad from Moramanga to Lake Alaotra runs adjacent to the area and then
connects with the Tananarive-Tamatave railroad.
3.02      There are now about 11,000 people living in 36 small villages
scattered vithin the Project area; these villages are, however, outside the
areas identified for afforestation under the Project. The villagers are mainly
subsistence farmers who have an average of about 1.7 ha of cultivable land.
Their main livelihood is rice farming, although some cattle are kept as work
animals and for milk production; it is estimated that there are currently about
8,000 head of cattle within the area.  Employment possibilities are few:  the
only cash incomes are derived from the sale of handcrafts and from some tempo-
rary work in the ongoing afforestation program.  Much of the land in the Mangoro
Valley is almost totally unsuitable for agricultural production other than ex-
tensive poor quality grazing for cattle, and there is little likelihood that
the land could effectively support a larger agriculturally-based population
than is now settled there, as any increase in grazing would aggravate the
already serious erosion problem. In accordance with current practice, valley
bottoms would continue to be used for rice cultivation, and neither these areas
nor the better grazing lands would be included in the area to be planted under
the Project. There is a possibility, however, that some marginal grazing areas
could be affected by the afforestation program, and should this happen, the
owners of the land would be compensated by Government in accordance wlth
Malagasy law. It is expected, however, that any interference with local land
use patterns as a result of the Project would be minimal.
B. The Mangoro Valley Afforestaticn Program
3.03      The Project would be part of the on-going Government afforestation
program which aims to plant 96,000 ha of pine plantations in the Mangoro
Valley. By the end of 1973 some 18,500 ha of pine plantation had been estab-
lished, and another 6,500 ha were scheduled to be planted in the early part of
1974. The methods of plantation establishment used thus far were developed
jointly by the DF, UNDP/FAO and a French bi-lateral research organization Centre
Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT); as they have proven to be generally success-
ful, they would be continued under subsequent plantings.



- 6 -
3.04      It is expected that when fully established the plantations vould
provide a source of raw material for a bleached pulp industry to be estab-
lished in Moramanga. However, the first plantings in the Mangoro Valley were
carried out in 1969/70, and a fifteen year growth period must be allowed
before the trees can be cut. Logging operations in this area are therefore
expected to begin in 1985. A provisional pulpwood mill site with a suîtable
water supply has been chosen 20 km from Moramanga near the railway from
Tananarive to Tamatave; the mill would thus be about 270 km from the port
at Tamatave. It is projected that the mill would be fully operational by
1985 when the first sawn timber from the Mangoro plantations becomes availi
able.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would comprise part of the Government afforestation
program now being carried out in the Mangoro Valley which will ultimately
involve the establishment of about 96,000 ha of pine plantations. The
Project would over five years (1974/75-1978/79) provide for the planting
of 35,000 ha out of this total area, as well as for the development of
infrastructure and forest services within the Project area. FANALAMANGA, a
corporation to be established by Government, would have overall responsibillty
for Project administration. Specifically the Project would include:
(a)  Afforestation of 35,000 ha;
(b)  Fire control and maintenance of ail plantations within
the Project area;
(c)  Construction and maintenance of service and plantation roads;
(d)  Construction of a Project Headquarters, three divisional
headquarters, and staff and labor facilities;
(e)  Research, training and tht preparation of future forestry
projects as well as other projects within the agricultural
sector; and
(f)  Pasture improvement on about 2,000 ha within the Project area.



- 7 -
B. Detailed Features (Annex 2)
Afforestation
4.02      The Project would provide for the afforestation of a total of 35,000
ha over the Project period; about 7,000 ha would be planted in each of the five
years. The afforestation program would include surveying of the area to be
planted, land preparation, the establishment of nurseries, fertilization,
planting, weeding and disease control.
4.03      Surveying.  A broad survey of the total area to be planted has
already been carried out, and under the Project more detailed soil and topo-
graphical surveys would be made. Soil surveys would, for example, provide
information on necessary soil treatment and fertilization measures. The sur-
veys would be made by special teams recruited within Madagascar. Boundaries
would be agreed with villagers now living in the Project area, and assurances
to that effect were obtained at negotiations. This process is already under-
way, and is not expected to delay the implementation of the Project. A map
would be drawn up illustrating boundaries, preliminary road locations and
prominent geographic features.
4.04      Land Preparation and Fertilization.  As much of the soil in the area
to be planted is degraded and compacted, subsoiling would be essential to break
up these layers to a depth of about 50 cm in order to assure root penetration
and moisture retention. This soil preparation would be done by a crawler
tractor with a disc harrow and ripper, although on steeper slopes it would be
necessary to utilize hand labor.  In areas where there is a heavy heather
growth, the use of a roller chopper would be necessary before soil preparation.
Soils to be planted are deficient in phosphorus and potassium, and consequently
would be spot fertilized before planting using 140 kg per hectare.
4.05      Nurseries.  The annual plantation program would require about 12
million plants, and seven nurseries would be established to meet this need;
these nurseries would be relocated every second year in order to minimize
the transport costs of seedlings. Two types of seeds would be used: Pinus
kesiya would be obtained from selected stands in Madagascar, and Pinus
elliottii would be imported; no difficulties in procuring an adequate quan-
tity of seeds are anticipated. Provision would be made for some sprinkler
irrigation of the nurseries, and for the application of fertilizers where
necessary.
4.06      Planting, Weeding and Disease Control.  Planting would be done by
hand during the rainy season (December-March). About 70% of the area would
be planted with Pinus kesiya and the remainder with Pinus elliottii. Past
experience indicates that a 10% failure rate can be expected, however; these
areas would be replanted either in the same planting season or in the next
year. Limited weeding operations would be carried out. An inspection team
would make regular inspections to identify and control any insect or fungal
attacks on the plantations.



- 8 -
Road Construction
4.07      Two types of roads would be constructed under the Project:  service
roads connecting the divisional headquarters (para. 4.11) with the public all-
weather road network, and plantation roads. The objective is to lay out and
implement a road system during the plantation establishment period which could
be subsequently upgraded to allow for logging operations. About 56 km of
gravelled service roads would be built and maintained. Plantation roads would
consist of both truck roads and access tracks. The truck roads would be designed
to the minimum standard necessary to allow for establishment of the plantations
and fire control and would form part of a continuous road system throughout the
area. The tracks would provide access to individual ridges. About 840 km of
plantation truck roads and 910 km of tracks would be constructed and maintained
over the Project period.
Fire Protection
4.08      Firebreaks would be constructed throughout the Ptoject area.  As the
plantations would be established on the plateau and on the upper slopes of the
hills, the valley bottoms would serve as natural firebreaks. Plantation roads
would also serve as firebreaks.. These natural firebreaks would be connected
with constructed breaks which would further subdivide the planting areas.
Some 82 km of firebreaks would be constructed in each year of the Project
period. Firebreak maintenance would include early burning of natural fire-
breaks along the perimeter of the valley bottoms at the end of the rainy
season, and the yearly burning, mowing and grading of artificial firebreaks
in order to keep them free of combustible material. About one-half of the
firebreaks would require mechanical clearing. This maintenance program would
be carried out not only in Project plantations, but also on about 25,000 ha
within the Mangoro Valley already planted under the Government afforestation
program; expenditures for the existing program would be small and could not
be readily separated from maintenance expenditures attributable to the Project.
4.09      A comprehensive system of fire prevention and control would be insti-
tuted throughout the Project area. One permanent fire fighting unit would be
set up in each of the three divisions under the supervision of the Divisional
Forestry Officer (para. 5.04).  Nine fire towers would be constructed at 15 km
intervals throughout the Project plantation area; fire control maps indicating
water supplies would be drawn up, and a communications system established.
Provision would also be made (para. 4.12) for vehicles and fire fighting tools
and equipment.
Project Management
4.10      Administration.  Provision would be made for the salaries and other
costs of all Project staff. These would include not only the administrative
staff (Director General, Forestry Specialist, Assistant Project Directors,
etc.), but also teachers, fire contral chiefs, technical and financial sup-
porting staff, health and educational workers, as well as clerical staff and
drivers. Also included would be provision for the running costs of Project
administrative vehicles.



- 9 -
4.11      Buildings and Housing.  The Project Headquarters would be located at
Moramanga, and provision would be made for construction of offices, a central
warehouse, a garage and workshop. For purposes of administration, the Project
area would be divided into three operating divisions - North, Central and
South - each with a Divisional Headquarters (para 5.03). The Headquarters
for the Central Division has already been built and no further construction
would be necessary there. Some additional investment would be made in the
South Division to upgrade an existing sectional headquarters to divisional
level, and an entirely new headquarters would be built for the North Division.
Investments would include office buildings, workshops, stores and garages.
As the headquarters would serve as permanent home for a large number of the
over 1,600 laborers to be employed, provision would also be made for the
construction of permanent staff housing, prefabricated housing units for
laborers, water reservoirs, cooperative stores, and a school, dispensary and
village hall (Annex 2, Table 4).
Equipment
4.12      The Project would require investment in equipment for several dif-
ferent Project activities including road building, land clearance, construc-
tion and maintenance of firebreaks, planting, and construction of headquarters
units. Equipment to be provided would include bulldozers, graders, tractors,
trucks and various other vehicles. Provision would also be made for office
and workshop equipment for the Project and the Divisional Headquarters.
Details are given in Annex 2, Table 5.
4.13      The Project workshops would be responsible for the repair and main-
tenance of Project vehicles and equipment. Major repairs would be carried
out in the Central Division workshop, which would also include a central
spare parts store.
Research and Training
4.14      Forestry research in the Project area has been carried out under the
direction of the National Forestry Research Center of the DP. Project research
would support the work already being carried out on a national level, and would
include yield and growth studies, establishment of seed orchards, fertilization
and disease control, and calculation of yield tables. Funds would be provided
for equipment, vehicles and consultants to carry out these studies. The national
research staff would not be financed as part of the Project, but would continue
to be covered by the research budget of the DF. Consultants would be employed
to prepare plans for a second phase project in the Mangoro Valley and for other
future projects within the agricultural sector. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the consultants financed under the Project as well as their
terms of reference would be subject to the prior approval of Bank/IDA.
4.15      The Project would include provision for the training of Project staff
in methods of establishing large scale plantations as well as in forest manage-
ment. A training center would be set up at the Central Division Headquarters
which would be staffed by a professional forester assisted by 3 foresters from
the DF; courses would be given for those staff not in professional positions.
Provision would be made for staff, equipment and vehicles for the training
center.



- 10 -
Pasture Improvement
4.16      The Project would provide US$100,000 for the improvement of about
2,000 ha of pasture within the Project area through the introduction of stylo.
The use of stylo for pasture improvement has been successfully tested within
Madagascar, and this program should substantially increase the carrying capa-
city of the natural pastures used by the villagers for communal grazing.
Although the Project funds would be used mainly for pasture improvement, some
additional components for improved cattle feed may also be introduced.
Ecology
4.17      The Project plantation program would be of substantial environmen-
tal benefit to the Mangoro Valley. The area selected for afforestation is
degraded, and the tree cover would reduce further erosion and improve soil
fertility and water retention. The boundaries of the plantation areas would
be drawn so as to minimize any conflict with local land use patterns. As-
surances were obtained at negotiations that sound environmental practices
would be followed under the Project, and that the necessary steps would be
taken by Governnent to monitor water quality and flow on the Mangoro River
in order to minimize any possible adverse ecological effects from the construc-
tion of the proposed pulp mill.
C. Project Cost (Annex 3)
4.18      Total Project cost is estimated at Fmg 4,400 million (US$17.2 mil-
lion). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.5 million.



- 1i1 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange %
-   Fmg million-----  --------US$ '000------
Afforestation             622      199     821  2,439       780   3,219         24
Service and
Plantation Roads        331      136     466  1,296       532   1,828         29
Fire Protection           266       20     286  1,044         79   1,123         7
Project Management
Administration          478       25     503  1,876        98   1,974         5
Buildings & Housing    434        54     488  1,703       211   1,914        il
Equipment                 157      325     482    615    1,274   1,889          67
Research, Training
and Studies              83      124     207    325       486      811       60
Pasture Improvement        25        -      25      98         -      98         -
Subtotal           2,396      882   3,278  9,396    3,460  12,856         27
Contingencies
Physical                 50       46      96    194       181      375       48
Price                   804      222   1,026  3,110       859   3,969         22
Total
Project Cost       3,250   1,150   4t4OO 12,700    4.500  17,200          26
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in July 1974.  Taxes and duties
on Project items are negligible, and have therefore not been included.  A
physical contingency of 10% on the cost of equipment, housing, buildings and
service road construction has been included. Price escalations are equivalent
to a cumulative annual price contingency of about 14%, and over the Project
period represent 31% of baseline costs.
D. Financing
4.19      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:



- 12 -
US$'000          z
IDA                      6,750          39
Bank                     6,750          39
Government               3,700          22
1 7L200       100
The proposed IDA credit of US$6.75 million would be on standard terme to
Government, and the Bank loan of US$6.75 million would be for a period of 25
years including a ten-year grace period. Together these would finance the
foreign exchange costs (US$4.5 million) and about 71% of local coste (US$9.0
million), or about 78% of total Project costs. Government's contribution and
an amount equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan and Credit would be made
available to FANALAMANGA as a contribution to its equity capital (para 5.01).
The Project would provide up to US$100,000 in retroactive financing to cover
Project expenditures for salaries and administrative costs incurred from
November 1, 1974 to the date of Project effectiveness.
E. Procurement
4.20      Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$2.0 million), fertilizer
(US$0.9 million), and civil works contracts (US$2.1 million) in orders exceed-
ing US$30,000 would be by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. Orders of
less than US$30,000 would be obtained under Government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory. The infrastructure work (except service roads and
prefabricated houses) and the plantations would be established by the DF under
force account, as due to the remoteness of the area and the nature of the work
it would not be likely to attract either local or international competitive
bidding.
F. Disbursement (Annex 4)
4.21      Disbursements would be made first from the Credit account and then
from the Loan account on the following basis:
(a)  75% of both foreign and local expenditures for civil works by
contractors and by force account;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of local expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and fertilizer; and
(c)  100% of foreign and 75% of local expenditures for pasture
improvement, consultant services for research and training,
and for preparation of a second phase project as well as other
future projects within the agricultural sector.



- 13 -
Disbursement would be made against statements of expenditure certified by
the Financial Director and approved by the Ministry of Finance. In the
case of imported fertilizer, vehicles or equipment, disbursement would be
made against import documents.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.22      At negotiations assurances were obtained that FANALAMANGA would
set up and maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations,
resources and expenditures, and that it would keep separate accounts for the
Project. Project accounts would be prepared by the Financial Director, who
would supervise the three Divisional Accountants (para 5.06). Assurances
were also obtained that Project accounts would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to Bank/IDA, and that all audited accounts would
be submitted to Bank/IDA no later than six months following the close of the
financial year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The Project would be executed by FANALAMANGA, a corporation (Societe
d'Economie Mixte) to be established by Government with substantial administra-
tive and financial autonomy. During the Project implementation period the
majority of the shares of FANALAMANGA would be owned by the State, but a small
number would also be held by the Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement;
the corporation's structure would allow for additional local or foreign
private participation at later stages of development. As a contribution to
its equity capital, Government would make available to the corporation:
(i) the existing plantations, facilities and equipment of the Mangoro plan-
tation scheme; (ii) Government's own contribution to the cost of the proposed
Project, and (iii) an amount equivalent to the proceeds of the Bank Loan and
IDA Credit as Government shall withdraw from Bank/IDA for project implemen-
tation. Draft statutes of incorporation have been reviewed by Bank/IDA,
and the establishment of the corporation as a legal entity would be a
condition of Credit and Loan effectiveness.
5.02      The Director General of FANALAMANGA would have overall responsi-
bility for Project implementation, and the appointment of a suitable candidate
to this post would be a condition of Credit and Loan effectiveness. Re would
be responsible to a Board of Directors, including representatives of the
Directorate of Fores try (DF) within the Minis try of Rural Development, as
well as representatives of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Interior,
Planning, Public Works, and Transport. The Board would have full responsi-
bility for policy and financial matters. FANALAMANGA would be built on part
of the existing organization of the Directorate of Forestry, and would take
over the budget, personnel and functions of the exîsting Mangoro plantation
scheme. The Director General would be supported for two years by an interna-
tionally recruited Forestry Specialist who would advise on overall Project



- 14 -
planning and implementation. This consultant has been requested by the
Governnent as at this time there are only a limited number of professional
foresters available in Madagascar.
5.03      For organizational purposes the Project area vould be divided into
three divisions (Chart), each with its own headquarters (para. 4.11).  Each
division would ultimately comprise tvo sections; only four sections vould be
operated in the Project period, hovever, and the remaining two vould be set
up under an envisaged second phase operation. As planting has already been
carried out by Government in one section of the Central Division, the Project
planting program would be restricted to three sections. The day-to-day opera-
tion of the Project would be under the direct supervision of three Assistant
Project Directors - the Plantation Director, the Engineering Director and the
Financial Director - who would be stationed àt Project Headquarters in
Moramanga.
5.04      The Plantation Director would be in charge of three Divisional
Forestry Officers; the latter would oversee the afforestation program, fire
control and village development (school, dispensary, cooperative store etc.).
The Plantation Director would also have direct responsibility for Project
research, training, the topographical and soil survey teams, and disease
control measures; the staff concerned with these activities would be stationed
at the Central Division Headquarters.
5.05      The Engineering Director would supervise three Divisional Engineers
who would be responsible for construction and maintenance of roads and fire-
breaks, maintenance of vehicles and equipment and operation of the stores and
workshops. He would also oversee a Workshop Engineer and an Electrical Engi-
neer who would serve all three division and who would be stationed in the
Central Division Headquarters.  The Workshop Engineer would, at the Government's
request, be internationally recruited and provision would be made for a Malagasy
counterpart.
5.06      The Financial Director would be responsible for Project accounts,
cost control and procurement, and would supervise the three Divisional Account-
ants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would cause
FANALAMANGA to employ within seven months of the signing of the Credit and
Loan agreements, a Plantation Director, a Financial Director, a Forestry
Specialist, and a Workshop Engineer whose qualifications and experience would
be acceptable to Bank/IDA.



- 15 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production (Annex 6)
6.01      The oldest plantations in the Project area are only five years old,
and only limited yield data are available to calculate the expected production
from the Project plantations during their fifteen year growth period. On the
basis of experience from similar plantations both in Madagascar and abroad,
it has been estimated that a gross mean annual increment over bark (MAI o.b.)
of about 15-20 m3/ha/year could be achieved. This growth is in line with
that of similar plantations elsewhere in Eastern Africa (Annex 6, Table 1).
With allowances for the volume of bark and losses, the weighted net volume
under bark would be 13 m3/ha/year for the Project plantations.
6.02      Pulp Mill Development (Annex 7).  It is envisaged that the wood
produced in the Mangoro pulpwood plantation program would be utilized in a mill
expected to be in operation by 1985 (para 3.04). At present cost and price
relationships, the best industrial alternative would be a mill with a nominal
capacity of 200,000 ADTPA of bleached sulphate pulp. At full production such
a mill would be able to process an estimated volume of 1.5 million m3 of wood
per annum.   To meet this demand logging operations would be carried out with-
in the Project area on about 6,000 ha per annum and the area would be reforested
once logging operations had been completed. Sufficient pulping tests have been
carried out to ascertain that pulp produced from planted species will compare
favorably on the world market with pulp from other fast growing pines.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 8)
6.03      Markets.  The world market for bleached sulphate pulp and paper has
changed significantly over the last two years. Markets in the 1960's were
characterized by excess production capacity and by low profitability due to
depressed prices, reduced production and increased manufacturing costs.
Recently, however, there has been a fundamental change in the character of
the market; this change has resulted in shortages of most types of pulp and
paper and in rapidly rising prices. All evidence indicates that Madagascar
should be able to successfully compete with other major pulp producing coun-
tries in supplying a portion of a substantial increase in world demand in
bleached long-fibered sulphate pulp (BLSP). Major competitors for this in-
creased demand would be other tropical countries and North America.   The
increased capacity for the production of BLSP in East Africa by 1985 is
estimated at less than 500,000 ADT, which in that year would represent about
20% of Europe's total estimated import requirements.
6.04      The major part of the total output from the pulp mill would be sold
in Europe, and the remainder would be marketed domestically. The projected
annual increase in domestic demand for paper and paper products is estimated
at 5-6%. The demand for pulp is, however, ultimately limited by the capacity



- 16 -
of the only paper mili in Madagascar (para 2.07), and no additional mill is
envisaged in the next two decades. The ultimate maximum output of the exist-
ing mill will be some 14,000 tons of paper products per annum requiring 4,400
tons per annum of bleached sulphate pulp.
6.05      Prices.  The last two decades have been characterized by stagnant
current prices of pulp and slightly falling real prices. However, the upsurge
in prices which has been evident since 1972 is expected to continue for some
years, and in the future, real prices should remain substantially higher than
the 1972 levels. Because of substitution possibilities, the recent price
increases in oil products could possibly result in further real price increases
for wood based products. The Project's economic evaluation is based on the
price and cost levels prevailing in June 1974, conservatively assuming no real
price increase. The CIF price of BLSP in Western Europe and the Western
Mediterranean area vas at that time US$350 per ADT. The domestic price at
the same date was US$400 per ADT.
6.06      In order to determine the pulp mill's net sales price for the Project
output, allowances have been made for quality, cash discounts, insurance,
freight, port charges and agents' commissions.  The opening of the Suez Canal
would improve the cost advantage which BLSP from Madagascar now enjoys on the
European market. The quality of pulp and paper produced from Pinus kesiya
is lower than that for Scandinavian and Canadian pulp, but compares favorably
with pulp from the southern U.S. and southern Europe which sells at an histori-
cal discount of $4.00 per ADT. Based on assumed markets, the weighted mill
net price is estimated at US$260 per ADT.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Evaluation
7.01      As the amount and sources of the additional financing needed for
the second phase of the afforestation program and the pulp mill have not yet
been established, the impact of the Project on Government's cash flow has
been confined to Project investment and stumpage revenues only. Current
stumpage prices have been used to calculate the revenues at time of harvest-
ing (about 15 years after planting; Annex 9, Table 1). Taxes and duties are
negligible and have therefore not been included, and stumpage revenues from
pre-Project plantations which would be maintained under the Project have also
not been included. On these assumptions, Project costs would be recovered
within 20 years at an interest rate of about 5%. The level of stumpage fees
are in line with those prevailing elsewhere in the world, but these should be
kept under consideration throughout the development period.
7.02      The Project plantation would have to be followed up by a second
plantation phase and by the setting up of a logging industry and a pulp mill.
This would involve further investment of some US$10 million for afforestation
and logging and some US$140 million for the pulp mill at present prices.



- 17 -
A financial rate of return for this program has been calculated to establish
whether the total development program, including the pulp mili, would be
financially viable, independent of future sources of finance. At 1974 price
levels, the rate of return would be about 10% over a 33-year period.
7.03      The net foreign exchange impact of the plantation program is de-
tailed in Annex 9, Table 2. Although the program would have a negative
foreign exchange impact from 1974 up to 1984, its net annual foreign exchange
earnings would increase rapidly thereafter from US$5.8 million in 1985 to
about US$42 million at full development (by the year 1995).
B.  Economic Evaluation (Annex 10)
7.04      The 35,000 ha of Project pine plantations would provide part of the
necessary raw material for the successful operation of the bleached pulp mill
to be constructed near Moramanga. The economic justification of the Project
is based on the entire Mangoro afforestation program. This overall program
comprises the plantation of a total area of 96,000 ha, logging operations
over 6,000 ha of 15 year-old pines each year, and the subsequent processing
of the wood in the projected pulp mill. The major quantifiable benefit thus
stems from the expected production of long-fiber pulp. At full development
(after 21 years), the annual value of production is expected to reach Fmg
18,000 million (US$56 million). After deducting the cost of production, the
net annual incremental economic benefits attributable to the program would
be about Fmg 10,000 million (US$31 million) (Annex 10, Table 2).
7.05      The internal rate of return of the program is estimated to be 13%
over 33 years. In calculating the rate of return to the economy, all foreign
exchange costs and benefits were valued upward by 25% to reflect more accur-
ately the economic value of foreign exchange to Madagascar. Labor costs
were shadow rated at 75% of the current wage rate.
7.06      The Project would result in additional employment of about 1,600
man-years annually. This figure would increase in future phases of the pro-
gram as a result of logging and mill operations. Spillover effects are ex-
pected to accrue to small-scale farmers in adjacent areas who would sell
agricultural products to the Project laborers. Unquantified benefits not
included in the analysis are the prevention of erosion and the improvement
of soils; benefits from training, research and studies; institutional improve-
ments; upgrading of the rural road system; and pasture improvement.
7.07      The main risks attached to the Project involve the projected yield
(MAI) in the plantation, and the price of pulp. If the yield were lower than
anticipated, a greater plantation area would be needed to provide the raw
material for the pulp mill, and/or the mill would have to be scaled down.
The market price used in the economic evaluation is considered conservative.
A substantial reduction in pulp prices is not likely in view of: (i) the



- 18 -
projected increase in future demand for pulp; and (ii) the limited possibil-
ities for expanding mill capacity and wood resources in the world in the
foreseeable future. Flexibility as to the type of pulp or paper products to
be manufactured would be retained until the beginning of the second phase of
the plantation program when growth and market conditions would be reevaluated.
Comparative calculations at present price levels show that there are several
alternative uses of the plantations' output for different types of pulp or
pulp and paper mills with rates of return at acceptable levels.
7.08      In the unlikely event that neither the proposed pulp mill nor any
other type of wood processing facility were built, the raw material from the
Project plantations could be exported as roundwood or wood chips. There is
an increasing demand for these products on the world market, and current indi-
cations are that there should be little difficulty in marketing the Project
output. If the output from the Mangoro plantations were to be exported as
wood chips, it is estimated that the economic rate of return of the Project
would be about 10%.
7.09      Sensitivity tests under various assumptions have shown that the
economic rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
benefits (Annex 10). With a 10% increase in costs the rate of return would
be 11%, and with a comparable reduction in benefits the return would be 10%;
a combination of both would give a return of 8%. If foreign exchange were
not shadow priced, the rate of return would be 11%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  Plantation boundaries would be established in agreement
with the villagers (para 4.03);
(b)  The consultants financed under the Project as well as their
terms of reference would be subject to the prior approval
of Bank/IDA (para 4.14);
(c)  Sound environmental practices would be followed under
the Project and that the necessary steps would be taken
by Government to monitor water quality and flow on the
Mangoro River (para 4.17);
(d)  FANALAMANGA would set up and maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures,
and that it would keep separate accounts for the Project
(para 4.22);



- 19 -
(e) Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and that all audited
accounts would be submitted to Bank/IDA no later than six
months following the end of the financial year (para 4.22); and
(f) Government would cause FANALAMANGA to employ within seven
months of the effectiveness of the Credit and Loan agree-
ments, a Plantation Director, a Financial Director, a Forestry
Specialist and a Workshop Engineer whose qualifications and
experience would be acceptable to Bank/IDA (pàra 5.06).
8.02      Conditions of Credit and Loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  Establishment of FANALAMANGA as a legal entity (para 5.01); and
(b) Appointment of a suitable candidate to the post of Director
General (para 5.02).
8.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.75 million and
a Bank Loan of US$6.75 million to the Government of the Malagasy Republic.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
The Development of Forest Resources in Madagascar
A. Forest Resources
1.        Of the total land area of Madagascar approximately 17.0 million
ha is classified as forests. Of this about 12.4 million ha can be classified
as productive indigenous forests and 250,000 ha is man-made pine and eucalyptus
plantation.
Forest Land                                 '000 ha
State forests, non-demarcated                          7,800
State forests, demarcated
Nature reserves and national parks                     500
Classified reserves                                 2,400
Area for reforestation and soil conservation           850
Area planted to pines                                   50
Area planted to eucalyptus                             200
Degraded forests                                      4,300
Forest under lease, private forests                      900
and provincial forests
TOTAL            17,000
2.        The low standing volumes, the preponderance of non-merchantable
species and the inaccessability of most indigenous forests limit their economic
value. Moreover, the cost of a reforestation program to establish pine planta-
tions is significantly higher in natural forests than in alternative open
grassland areas because of high land clearance costs and inaccessability.
The natural forests nonetheless serve an important function in providing
domestic timber and fuel and maintaining water catchments.
3.        Climatic conditions in Madagascar favor the establishment of pine
plantations, and Government gives high priority to the establishment of such



ANNEX 1
Page 2
plantations to utilize land with low agricultural potential. The availabil-
ity of such land in large blocks close to the sea gives Madagascar a comparative
advantage for production of pulpwood. This advantage has recently been even
more emphasized by increased energy prices. Without taking account of a
possible increased demand for pulpwood as substitute for oil based products,
the projected world demand for pulpwood in the next ten years would have to
be met from an increased raw material base either by new plantations or by
increasing the production from or access to existing forests.
4.        The man-made forests in Madagascar are mainly pine and eucalyptus
plantations. The existing eucalyptus plantations have been established for
fuelwood (mainly for railway use).  A continuation of eucalyptus plantation
on a large scale would be justified only as raw material for a pulp and paper
industry.  However, the growth rate of eucalyptus on marginal agricultural
soils is too low to warrant a major plantation scheme for a pulp mill based on
eucalyptus.  The existing resources could, however, be utilized in a future
pulp mill based on long-fibered wood (pines).
5.        The major pine plantation schemes in Madagascar are:
(i) Plantations of Pinus patula (and some Pinus kesîya) near Antsirabe
Age Class                                     Total
(years)                                     (ha)
Less than 5                                   2,040
5 - 10                                       3,028
11 - 15                                       1,427
16 - 20                                      1,427
21 - 25                                          25
26 - 30                                          84
More than 30                                    228
All ages                                      7,651
(ii)  Industrial Pine Plantations of the Haute Matsiatra.  These
plantations, situated in the Prefecture of Fianarantsoa, were
originally meant to supply a 100,000 ADTPA pulp mill; some
35,000 to 40,000 ha were expected to be planted with Pinus
patula. Studies were carried out by Societe d'Etude pour la
Promotion des Industries de la Cellulose (SEPIC). By 1974
approximately 30,000 ha had been planted.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Pinus patula Plantations - Haute Matsiatra
Year Planted      Area (ha)      Year Planted    Area (ha)
1953/54            511           1961/63           930
1954/55          2,020           1963/64         1,505
1955/56          2,822           1964/65         1,001
1956/57          1,534           1965/66         1,010
1957/58           1,416          1966/67         1,167
1958/59           1,336          1967/68         1,725
1959/60             726          1968/69         1,810
1960/61             736          1969/70         2,086
1961/62             -            1970/71            -
1971/72        2,780
1972/73        2,785
1973/74        2,100
TOTAL      30,000
These plantations presently form the largest single block
of commercial timber within Madagascar. However, due to
limitations on additional available land in the area and
the long distance from the coast, they cannot be developed
to a size which would be sufficient for competitive export
production.
(iii) Industrial Pine Plantations of the Mangoro Valley. In
1967 it was decided to start a large reforestation scheme
in the Mangoro valley in the Prefecture of Ambatondrazaka.
Financing was arranged in 1968 by FNDE (Fonds National
pour le Developpement Economique) and the project was
started in July 1968. Basic research was carried out by
the CTFT with FAO running a pilot project on a larger
scale. Pinus kesiya was selected as the most promising
species. By the end of 1973 approximately 18,500 ha had
been planted, and this total is expected to be extended
to some 96,000 ha in the future. Because of the availability
of land in the area and its proximity and accessability to the
coast, the Mangoro plantations offer the most encouraging
prospects for developing large scale plantations. It is in
this area that the proposed Project would be located.
(iv)  Industrial Pine Plantations of the Haute Onive.  These
plantations are situated in the Prefecture of I.M. Centrale.
The original aim in 1968 was to create a large scale
block of Pinus patula plantations by planting 3,000 to 4,000
ha annually.   The selection of the Mangoro valley as the
main source of pulpwood supply has put the reforestation
of the Onive region in a secondary position. Although
planting continues, the areas planted annually are on the



ANNEX 1
Page 4
order of hundreds of hectares instead of thousands of
hectares as originally planned. Many small scattered
family farms occur in this region. Some 10,000 to 15,000
ha net plantable area seems to be available.
6.        In addition to the plantations mentioned above, UNDP/FAO has es-
tablished under its program of "Inventaire et Mise en Valeur Forestiere de
Certains Perimetres" a series of trials with regard to industrial afforesta-
tion. The UNDP/FAO pilot plantations in the Haut Mangoro examine the results
of basic research on a large scale and help guide the industrial plantation
program.
B. Forest Industries
7.        The forest industries are still in the early stages of development
and a significant proportion of roundwood is presently converted by hand
methods, (pitsawing) which is both wasteful of the raw material and unsatis-
factory with respect to the quality of the product. There have been three
important developments in recent years; the establishment of a pul§ and paper
factory in 1967, a modern sawmill with a capacity of some 10,000 m in the
same year and a fibreboard plant in 1971.
Summary of Existing Forest Industries
Tgype                      Number of              Production  Value of  Number of
Plants   Capacity    in 1972   Production Employees
(Fmig Million)
Sawmills                       59      61,000 m3  48,000 m3        610        970
Fibreboard                      1       3,750 m/t  1,000 m/t        17         43
Pulp and Paper                  1       3,500 m/t  2,000 m/t       N/A        425
Joinery, flooring, box-
making and cabinet-making    13            -           -           119        747
Match factory                   1                -                            100
Sawmills
8.        The sawmills range in size from a capacity of 50 m 3 to 10,000 mn3
sawnwood per year, with most mills being relatively small. The largest mill
with a capacity of 10,000 m3, situated at Majunga, is currently producing
some 8,000 m3; overall capacity utilization in the industry is around 60-70
precent. Production is about 87 percent hardwood and 13 percent conifers
and is mainly for local construction markets, box-making and furniture. 3
Prices in 1973 of sawn lumber varied from Fmg 14,000 to Fmg 25,000 per m



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Board Industries
9.        There is one fibreboard plant, which is a State enterprise,
situated at Moramanga. The plant was established in 1971 with a capacity
of 3,750 m3 per year of raw fibreboard using the "Deckle Box" discontinuous
process. There is no facility for further finishing with decorative over-
lays. Production in 1972 was 1,000 tons. Sales are made direct to whole-
salers and retail distributors at ex-mill prices of around Fmg 730 per sheet
of 3 m x 1.25 m x 3.2 mm. There are no exports of the products and imports
are prohibited. The raw material supply is from State eucalyptus plantation
situated in a radius of 20 km from the mill. There is no domestic production
of particle board or plywood products at present; however a private particle
board mill is under construction. A small plywood mill which commenced in
1966 went out of production in 1968.
Pulp and Paper
10.       The only pulp and paper mill in the country, situated near Tananarive,
has a capacity of about 10,000 tons of paper. A total of 80 grades of paper
and paper products are manufactured in the mill. Principal paper grades are
newsprint, printing and writing paper, duplicating paper, kraft papers, tissue
and various types of boards; principal manufactured products include coil and
sewn notebooks, kraft bags, sanitary tissue products and envelopes. The
plant commenced operation in 1967; production since that date has been as
follows:
Annual Output (Tons - all grades)
1967                                3,800
1968                                4,700
1969                                5,500
1970                                6,200
1971                                6,800
1972                                7,000
Almost all of the mill's production of paper is sold directly to commercial
consumers in Madagascar including printing shops and two box-manufacturing
plants. In addition to the domestic market, the company has been able to
develop a small export market of some 300-400 tons annually; under the
present cost price structure, however, this is not a particularly attractive
proposition. With minor capital addition, the mill has an ultimate capacity
of some 14,000 tons annually. Paper is produced from groundwood pulp, purchased
chemical pulp and waste paper. Groundwood pulp is produced in the mill using
pine billets from the Ambatolampy and Antsampandrano forests, supplied by the



ANNEX 1
Page 6
3
Malagasy Government at a cost of around Fmg 2,137/m . 1/  Chemical pulp is
purchased primarily from France, the United States and Sweden; in May 1973
the c.i.f. prices ranged from US$200 per ton for unbleached kraft pulp to
US$250 per ton for bleached. 2/ The mill is protected in the domestic market
by more-or-less blanket prohibitions on imports of competitive grades and by
a price structure which sets domestic prices at some 15-30 percent above the
cost of an equivalent import. 3/
11.       A pulp mill utilizing the Matsiatra pine plantations is being inves-
tigated. The mill would produce some 120,000 ADTPA of unbleached long-fibered
sulphate pulp. The viability of the project has not yet been demonstrated
and no sponsor is on hand. If unbleached and not bleached sulphate were
manufactured, the project would not be in competition with the Mangoro project.
Staff and wood resources are sufficient for both projects (Annex 8).
12.       Other Forest Industries.  Some 13 small factories produce joinery,
furniture, boxes and parquet flooring and jointly employ some 750 persons.
There is one match factory, operated by the State, which commenced production
in 1966 and currently employs around 100 persons and produces some 72 million
boxes annually.
3
1/                                                ..... . .m/
S tumpage                                          710.50
Felling and X Cutting (1 m x 2 m billets)          162.50
Debarking and stacking                             122.50
Extraction to roadside                             155.50
Other costs                                        100.00  1,250.00
Rail transport:                         3
60 km at Fmg 5.20/ton-km (1 ton: 1 m')                     312.00
Road transport:
30 km at Fmg 15/ton-km                                     450.00
Rail and lorry loading/unloading                              125.00
2,137.00 (US$9.3
million)
2/   The quantity of chemical pulp imports is currently around 4,000 tons a
year.
3/   The State has a 35 percent share in the equity of the company.
August 20, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORUSTRY PROJECT
Development of Project Infrastructure
1.        This Annex describes the technical aspects of all physical works
to be carried out under the Project. The works would include (see Table 1)
afforestation; the construction and maintenance of service roads, plantation
roads and tracks; the construction of buildings and housing for the head-
quarters units; and construction and maintenance of firebreaks. Cost esti-
mates are shown in Annex 3.
A. Afforestation
2.        The plantation establishment methods to be followed under the
Project are those currently being used for the establishment of plantations
within the Project area; these were developed jointly by the DF, UNDP/FAO,
and a French bilateral research organization, Centre Technique Forestier
Tropical (CTFT). The specific planting procedures to be followed are de-
scribed below. The planting schedule is shown in Table 2 and labor require-
ments in Table 3.
Surveying
3.        A topographic survey of each years planting area would be carried
out based on aerial photography at a scale of approximately 1:25,000. Plani-
metric base maps would be made at the same scale showing the main features
such as rivers, swamps, existing forests, villages, rice fields, grazing
lands, roads, railroads etc. Special attention would be given to low lying
areas subject to flooding and to steep slopes. The area to be planted would
then be delineated, detailed field checks made, and a final map drawn. Al-
though preliminary road locations vrould appear on the map, a more detailed
field survey would follow.
4.        Soil surveys in the Project area have been undertaken with the
assistance of UNDP/FAO. A special team would be required to continue this
work, mainly to arrive at a broad soil classification based on the soil types,
the topography etc. This classification would comprise both chemical and
physical soil factors and would assist in preparing the plans for soil treat-
ment and fertilization. A basic soils map would be prepared; this map and
growth data from permanent sample plots would be used for yield predictions.
It has been assumed that basic soil research would be carried out by the
newly formed Centre National de Recherches Forestieres.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Nurseries
5.        Some 11 million plants would be needed for the annual planting
program of 7,000 ha; this is based on the assumption that 1,400 trees per ha
would be planted and that 10% of the net area would require replanting. In
order to meet this need some seven nurseries would be established. These
nurseries would be used for two years and then be relocated in order to reduce
the cost of transport of seedlings. Two types of seed would be used: Pinus
kesiya and Pinus elliottii. The P. kesiya seed presently comes mainly from
a selected stand of 50 ha at Ambatofinandrahana near Fianarantsoa. The annual
cone production is about 50,000 kg of cones. The seed yield is about 2% by
weight, giving a total annual output of 1,000 kg seed. Each kg contains about
50,000 seeds with a viability of some 50%. The 50 ha stand thus produces seed
sufficient for the production of some 25 million seedlings. It can be seen
that no rigorous selection of seed trees can be applied in order to produce
the 11 million plants required. The DF has therefore embarked on a program
of establishing seed orchards. Seeds for P. elliottii would be imported from
South Africa and Mauritius and no problems are envisaged in procuring an
adequate supply.
6.        Approximately 20% would be seeded directly in plastic tubes while the
remaining 80% would be seeded in seed beds and later transplanted - 50% into
tubes and 50% into clay blocks. Seeding would occur in March-July. Sprinkler
irrigation would be applied and fertilizer added if the growth of the seedlings
were retarded.
Land Preparation
7.        About 80% of the land available for planting would be prepared
mechanically. In other areas (i.e. with over a 30% slope), the use of such
equipment would not be appropriate. Much of the soil in the Project area has
been degraded and compacted. Sub-soiling would break up the compacted layers
and assist root penetration as well as moisture availability. A crawler tractor
with attached two-teeth ripper would be used, the teeth set 2.70 meters apart
(equalling the planting distance). The surface soil would have to be loosened
after ripping. This would normally be done by hand tools, but where possible
it would be carried out by a disk harrow attached to the ripper. In certain
areas a heavy growth of heather would require the use of a roller-chopper
before any soil preparation and ploughing could be carried out. A crawler
tractor would be used for this operation.
Fertilization
8.        Fertilization has proven to be indispensable for a rapid growth of
the pines on the degraded soils of the Project area, and it also results in
more homogenous stands. Trials have demonstrated that the main deficient
minerals are phosphorus and potassium. Their combined application has the
maximum effect on growth: the application of phosphorus has an immediate
effect while that of potassium has a later impact. Nitrogen has only a



ANNEX 2
Page 3
limited effect at best when applied close to planting time. Large-scale
trials have been conducted by UNDP/FAO in pilot plantations, including trials
to determine the minimum amount necessary to achieve a high yield. The use of
the cheaper potassium chlorite instead of the more expensive potassium sulphate
does not appear to have the toxic effect anticipated. The results of these
trials have already caused a reduction in the rather high cost of fertilization,
but further trials will be needed. A mixture of PK 21 - 16 would be used for
the Project plantations, applying approximately 140 kg/ha after ripping or
hand pitting.
Planting and Replanting
9.        At present a planting distance of 2.70 by 2.70 meters is being
used (approximately 1,400 plants per ha). A wider spacing would result in
heavy branch forming and more competition from weeds in the early stages of
development.  With a narrower spacing the trees appear to suffer from competi-
tion at a later stage. Project planting will be done during the rainy season
from December until March. An extension of the planting season, if feasible,
could reduce the nursery and planting costs, but it remains difficult to fore-
cast the rainfall during this period as precipitation differs from year to
year. Experiments on this aspect will continue as the Project proceeds.
10.       There will normally be some failures after planting.  It has been
estimated that some 10% of the seedlings would need to be replaced; this
could be done during the same planting season or during the next year. Oc-
casional scattered failures are not normally replanted as the newer seedlings
would probably become dominated by the larger trees planted eaflier.  Only
when complete failures occur in areas larger than some 1,000 m , or if there is
a low establishment in areas larger than some 2,500 m2, would the additional
cost of replanting be warranted.
Weeding
11.       As most of the plantation area is covered by grasses, only occasional
weeding would be carried out where heavy vegetation hinders the growth of the
seedlings. Weeding would not be mechanized. Herbicides are expensive and are
too dangerous as grass and pine trees are structurally closely related. Weed-
ing would be carried out on 30% of the planted area.
Pruning and Thinning
12.       Pruning is not necessary in a pulpwood plantation.  Although it might
reduce fire risk at the age when trees are susceptible to crown fires, the
reduction in fire risks is considered too low to warrant any pruning. As the
plantations would be established on a pulpwood rotation of 15 years and as a
sufficiently wide planting distance has been adopted, no thinnings would be
carried out.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Protection against Insects
13.       Few insects have been observed which cause significant damage on
the kesiya pine plantations. Borocera spp. (Lasicompidae) and Deborrea spp.
(Psychidae) caterpillars do occur on needles of some pines in Madagascar. In
South Africa P. patula plantations have shown some damage from lepidopteras
such as Nudaurelia cytherea capensis Stoll. and Neocleora herbuloti Fletcher.
Regular inspections of the plantations would be carried out and close contact
maintained with the various research organizations knowledgeable about
entomology. Provision for an inspection team has been included in the
Project cost estimates.
Protection against Fungi
14.       Thus far no serious problems have been encountered with regard to
fungi attacks. Regular inspection of the plantations would be carried out
and close contact maintained with the various research organizations dealing
with mycology. Provision for an inspection team has been included in the
Project cost estimates.
B. Service Roads
15.       Plantation work in the Project area would be carried out in one of
the two sections of each division. A service road would connect the divi-
sional headquarters with the all-weather public road network. The sectional
headquarters would also require a service road connecting them with the
divisional headquarters. By the beginning of the Project period, service
roads to the Central Divisional and sectional headquarters would already have
been constructed. About 56 km of service roads would be constructed under
the Project to connect the North and the South Divisions' headquarters with
the public all-weather road network. The service roads would be all-weather
gravelled roads of 3.5 meter traffic lane width, witlh overall road width of
6.5 meters. The cost of this standard of road in Madagascar is estimated to
be Fmg 3,625 (US$14) per meter.
C. Plantation Roads and Tracks
Road Construction
16.       The objective of the road program is to lay out a road system during
the plantation establishment phases which would be adequate for the planting
program and which could be subsequently upgraded for logging without incurring
heavy costs. A survey team would determine the road alignment.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       Only those truck roads necessary for plantation establishment,
maintenance and fire protection would be constructed under the Project; the
remainder of the alignments would be used as access tracks for planting. Up-
grading of the roads and some 75% of tracks would take place when logging
operations commence in 1984, as at that time all-weather surfaces would be
necessary.
18.       Location and Terrain.  The area is characterized by large stretches
of plateau (ridge) land over which road construction costs would be comparative-
ly low. Full advantage will be taken of this, and most of the roads would be
aligned on the plateau. The valleys subdividing the plateau are shallow and
the height difference between valleys and ridges is generally within the range
of 50 - 100 m. Road links would have to be established between the ridges
and the valley areas. In general, the slopes leading into the valleys are in
the range of 20 to 50 percent, and there would be no difficulty in aligning
roads through these. Except for isolated river beds, there are no areas of
surface rocks.
19.       Types of Road.  Plantation roads are classified as primary and
secondary truck roads and plantation tracks. The primary and secondary roads
would comprise the main road system through the entire area. The tracks would
lead off from the roads and be confined to individual ridges.
20.       Density of Roads.  The density of truck roads in the plantation
area would be 14 m/ha. The density of tracks would be 24 m/ha, thus giving
an overall density of 38 m/ha. In addition of this, truck roads would be
built connecting the plantation areas with headquarters and the public road
system.
21.       Specifications.  During the plantation establishment period, the
road specifications would be kept to minimum levels. Sufficient road right-
of-way would be reserved along truck roads and tracks to serve the dual pur-
pose of firebreaks and allow widening when upgrading takes place. A maximum
gradient of 8% would be adopted which would enable vehicles to traverse the
slopes without unduly reducing average speeds. These specifications are
summarized in the following table:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Road Width       Road Right Maximum  Designed Speed (kph)
On Ridges On Slopes -of-Way Gradient On Ridges On Slopes
Primary truck roads   6-7 m      5 m       20 m        8%      60         30
Secondary truck roads 5-6 m      5 m       11 m        8%      40         20
Tracks                 3.5 m     -          6 m        8%      30         20
22.       Road Program.  The annual plantation road program would be as
follows:
Primary truck roads             63 km
Secondary truck roads          105 km
Tracks                         182 km
23.       Methods of Construction.  A motor grader of 150 hp would be used for
the construction of the roads along the ridges. For the primary and secondary
roads, parallel side drains would be formed by the grader; it is not considered
necessary to form side drains for the traclcs.
24.       The estimated average slope over which the slope roads would be con-
structed is 40%. This would entail earth-moving of about 8.4 m3 loose earth
per meter of road. A 180 hp bulldozer wou;d be suitable for this construction.
After bulldozing, slope roads would be levelled by a 150-180 hp grader. A
dressing of 2 cm thickness has been allowed for in the cost estimates. Sand
is freely available in the valley bottoms.
25.       Drains and Bridges.  Cross drains would be needed along the slope
roads at intervals of about 50 m. These would likely be constructed from
timber which is available from departmental eucalyptus plantations in the
area. The poles will be hand hewn into rough squared sections; five square
sections fastened together with wooden cross-ties would form a drain across
the road width. The cross drains would be replaced by concrete culverts when
the roads are widened and upgraded for the subsequent logging operations.
26.       A number of wooden bridges of 10-ton carrying capacity have already
been constructed and the methods used would be continued under the Project.
The timber would be obtained from the departmental eucalyptus plantations.
The density of bridges would be 0.70 m/km of truck road. The wooden bridges
would be replaced with permanent constructions when the roads are upgraded to
take the heavier log transport vehicles.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Road Maintenance
27.       Some 480 km of roads and 513 km of tracks have been constructed
in the Central and South Divisions. The road maintenance program for the
Project would include maintenance of the existing 480 km of roads as well as
the roads constructed during the Project period. All primary and 20% of the
secondary roads would require annual maintenance. Road surfaces would be
graded twice a year using a 150 hp motor grader. Side drains would be cleaned
manually.
D. Buildings and Housing
28.       Provision would be made under the Project for the construction of
a Project headquarters, offices, workshops, stores, dispensaries, schools,
village halls, fire watch towers and vater reservoirs and for housing of staff
and laborers (Table 4). The headquarters for the Central Division has already
been established. Under the Project a headquarters would be constructed for
the Northern Division and a sectional headquarters would be upgraded into a
headquarters for the Southern Division (see Map IBRD 10923). Provision would
be made for the following structures:
Number
New          Upgraded
Project headquarters offices            2
Divisional headquarters office          1                1
Workshops                               1                1
Stores                                  1                1
Dispensaries                            1                1
Cooperative stores                      1                1
Schools                                 1                -
Village halls                           1                -
Fire watch towers                       9                -
Water towers                            2                -
Water dams                              2                -
Staff houses (hard houses)             44                -
Laborers houses (prefabricated)    1,110                 -
The unit costs are shown in Table 4 and the total costs in Annex 3, Table 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
E. Fire Protection
29.       The main fire danger to the plantations would be from grass fires
spreading along the ground. Such fires can be controlled by cleared or burned
fire lines which prevent the fire from spreading.  To be effective, these
firebreaks must be sufficiently wide to prevent sparks from being blown across.
The width of firebreaks therefore largely depends on the likely wind force in
the area during the fire season.
30.       The siting of the plantations on the ridges and upper slopes of the
hills would simplify the problem of firebreak construction. The valley bottoms -
which are being excluded from the planting area because of the impeded drainage
in these areas - would be used as natural firebreaks. The primary and secondary
roads would also serve as firebreaks along the ridges.
31.       It would be necessary to construct firebreaks to join the valley
firebreaks with those on the ridges and to sub-divide compartments. Internal
firebreaks would be constructed on some 12.0% of the net plantation area.
The firebreaks would normally be 100 m wide - which is considered reasonable
in relation to the climatic conditions of the area. The proportion of the
area reserved for firebreaks and their widths would be subject to modification
as the planting proceeds and more detailed studies of the terrain and wind
force become available. It is expected that some 82 km of firebreaks would
be constructed during each year of the Project.
32.       Firebreak Construction.  The firebreaks would be cleared of com-
bustible material. In some areas this would be done by mechanically clearing
strips of 6 m width along both sides of the firebreak and then burning off
the grass and herbaceous cover in the area between the strips. The clearing
of the 6 m wide strips would be carried out by using a 100 hp motor grader.
Mechanical cultivation of the area between the strips would be carried out
by a wheeled tractor with a disc plough or by crawler tractor with roller-
chopper, depending on the vegetation. In other areas where the grass and
shrub cover is more tenacious, the whole area would be mechanically cultivated.
It is estimated that about one-half of the firebreaks would require all-over
mechanical clearing.
33.       Firebreak Maintenance.  The firebreaks would require yearly mechanical
clearing of the 6 m wide strips along the perimeter and all-over mechanical
clearing of about one-half of the area; the area between the strips would re-
quire burning-off or mowing.
34.       Fire Control.  The rainfall pattern is such that there is no sharply
defined fire risk season.  A fire hazard is likely to occur during the period
from June to October (100 days/year), although the danger would not be con-
tinuous throughout these months. Simple weather stations maintained at divi-
sional headquarters would collect data in order to compile a fire hazard
index. Danger areas would be delineated and water supply points located



ANNEX 2
Page 9
and recorded on fire control maps. These maps would also record the location
of the the forest gangs during the periods of fire hazard to facilitate quick
call-out in areas of emergency.
35.       Fire control would be organized on a divisional basis under the
direct supervision of the assistant divisional foresters. Fire towers would
be erected at 10-15 km intervals throughout the plantation areas; nine towers
would be built under the Project.  The total requirement for the Project area of
96,000 ha would ultimately be 24 towers. The divisional fire control offices
would have direct radio linkage between fire towers and stations.  Additional
radio linkage would be provided by walkie-talkie sets carried in the fire
control vehicles.
36.       During period of fire hazard one permanent fire fighting crew would
be located in each section, and the crew would be on duty for fire fighting
during approximately 100 days a year (para. 34). During the rest of the year
they would carry out protective burning of firebreaks. Each crew would have
one firetruck with water tank on trailer and one landrover. They would also
have pack pumps and other fire fighting tools.
Equipment
37.       The Project would require investment in equipment which would be used
for the above mentioned activities. Equipment would include bulldozers, graders,
tractors, trucks and various other vehicles. (Table 5). The Project vehicles
and equipment would be repaired and maintained in the divisional workshops.
A central spare parts store and a workshop for major repairs would be situated
in the Central Division's headquarters.
August 20, 1974



MADAGLAS CA R
MANG00R FORFSTRY PWPJ'rT
Physical Work Schedule
Unit       1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      Total
Service Roads                      km          19        37         -         -         -         -        56
Plantation Truck Roada             km          56       168       168       168       168       112        840
Plantation Tracks                  km          60       182       182       182       182       122       910
Buildings                          No           8        15         -         -         -         -         23
Houses
Hard                             No          15        29         -         -         -         -44
Prefabricated                    No         370       740         -         -         -         -       1110
Surrey                             ha        2330      7000      7000      7000      7000      4670     35000
Plants                           millions       3.6      10.8      10.8      10.8      10.8       7.2      54
Land Preparation
Mechanical subsoiling            ha        1630      4900      4900      4900      4900      3270      24500
Mechanical brush clearing        ha         700      2100      2100      2100      2100      1400      10500
Manual hole pithing              ha         700      2100      2100      2100      2100      1400      10500
Manual planhole preparation      ha        1630      4900      4900      4900      4900      3270      24500
Fertilizer application
100 g/plant, 140 kg/ha          ton          -       980       980       980       980       980       4900
Planting                           ha           -      7000      7000      7000      7000      7000     35000
Weeding                            ha           _      1400      1400      1400      1400       1400      7000
Firebreaks
Length                           km          20        58        58        58        58        38        290       ,
Area                             ha         190       580       580       580       580        390      2900          CD



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MADAGASCAR
MANGO-RO FORESTR« PROJECT
Planting Schedule
(Net planted area, in ha)
North     Central     South         Total Project
Planting Season          Division   Division   Division    Per Year   Accumulated
Section 1 Section 1
Pre-Project Phase
1969/70                               3,000                   3,000       3,000
1970/71                               5,500                   5,500       8,500
1971/7z                               3,000      1,000        4,000      12,500
1972/73                               4,000      2,000        6,000      18,500
Section 2
1973/74                               4,O00      2,500        6,500      25,000
ProJect                  Section 1
1974/75                    1,000      4,000      2,000        7,000     -32,000
1975/76                    2,000      3,000      2,000        7,000      39,000
1976/77                    3,000      2,000      2,000        7,000      46,oOo
1977/78                    3,000      2,000      2,000        7,000      53,000
1978/79                    3,000      2,000      2,000        7,000      60,000
Project Phase 2          Section 2             Section 2
1979/80                    3,000                 3,000        6,000      66,ooo
1980/81                    3,000                 3,000        6,000      72,000
1981/82                    3,000                 3,000        6,000      78,000
1982/83                    3,000                 3,000        6,000      84,ooo
1983/84                    3,000                 3,000        6,000      90,000
1984/85 /1                  /1                    /1          6,000      96,000
/1  Sections best suited for planting the additionally required 6000 ha to be
selected later on the basis of management, age class distribution and logging
considerations.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
MADAGASGAR
MANGORo FORESTiRY PROJECT
Total Manpower Requirements
Mandays
Per
ha
Survey ind Technical Support                                0.7
Nursery Work including 31 new
Nurseries per year                                        8.5
Soil Preparation                                           10.9
Fertilizing                                                5.3
Planting Including Transport                                7.8
Reolantir.g                                                0.0
Weeding                                                     1.2
Firebreaks Construction                                     0.6
Firebreaks -!anten&nce                                      1.1
Plantation Roads Construiction                              0.2
Construction of Bridges, Darfms etc.                       3.1
Materi.al Supply and Haintenaince of
Bridges, Dams, Buildings, Housing etc.                     3.0
Mri-ntena,nce of Plantation Roads                          0.1
IJorkshop, Equipiiient Supply and Repairs                   6.0
Fire Control (FuI Staff for 3,500 ha)                       1.9
Administration and Overihead                                6.7
Total           58.0



ANNEX 2
Table h
MADAGASCAR
MANGORD FORETRY PROJECT
Building and Housing Standards and Unit Costs
Cost per Unit
Number      Cost per       Total Cost
of          m           per Unit
m2       ('000 Fm)      ('000 FDEI
Buildinrs: (life 50 years)
General Direction:
- Office I                                250            1711        4250/
- Office II                               340            17          5780
- Central Warehouse                       300            17          5100
- Garage and Workshop                     200            10          2000
Divisional Headauarters:
- Office                                  102            17          1734
- Garage and Workshop                     300            20          6000
- Warehouse                               200            17          3400
- Fire Watchtower                           -             -           200
- Dispensary/Maternity                     80            20          1600
- Cooperative Store                        60            20          1200
- Village Hall                            150            15          2250
- School                                  100            20          2000
- Water Tower                               -             -          2000
Housing:
Hard Housess (life 50 years)
- Grade Ai                                100            25          2500
- Grade A2                                 80            25          2000
- Grade B & C                              50            20          1000
- Grade D +500 + 700                       36            20           720
Prefabricated Houses: (lite 10 years)
- Grade 125 to 450                         21            12           252
- Grade 120                                14            12           168
- Grade 105 (seasonal)                      7             9            63
/1  According to corrigendum received from Madagascar Forest Service aXter completion
of Project appraisal the unit costæ should read:  250 m2 A 30,000 %mg/m2 = 750
7,500,000 Filg.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment Requirements for the Project
Number       Unit Cost       Total Cost
---------'000 Fhg-
Bulldozer 150-180 HP                     1            21,391           21,391
Bulldozer 100 HP                         6            12,921          77,526
With Ripper                            6                242          1,452
Grader 150 HP                            2            12,307           24,614
Grader 100-200 HP                        -             7,951             _
dJheel Tractor                           3             2,011           6,033
With Plow                              3                261             786
Loader                                   1             5,141            5,141
2.5 T Truck                              -             2,182             -
5 T Truck                                -             4,575             -
.ire Truck                               2             4,606            9,212
7.5 T Truck                              -             4,242             -
'Jireless Set Stationary                il               360            3,960
Walkie-Talkie                            6                 91             546
Rubber Widheel Roller                    3             6,872          20,616
Sheep Foot Roller                        1             1,697           1,697
Stone Crusher                            3             3,955          11,865
Pile Driver                              3             2,545            7,635
Low Bed                                  2             4,848            9,696
Metal Roller                             3             6,496          19,488
Roller Chopper                           3               848            2,544
dIater Tank Trailer                      3             1,102            3,306
Office Equipment                          -              -            12,120
dorkshop Equipment                               -                    24,240
Limousine 7-9 HP                         2             1,576            3,152
Limousine 4-6 HP                         5                970           4,850
Commerciale                              3             1,212           3,636
Ambulance                                3               848           2,544
4 WiD Landrover Long Ch.                18             1,673          30,114
4 4D Landrover Glass                      -            1,818             -
Pickup Canvassed                         9               848           7,632
Nursery Irrigation Set                    7               970           6,790
Other 1Iursery Equipment                 7                48              336
322,922
July 17, 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1.        The Project costs presented below are based on July 1974 prices.
Labor and machinery requirements are based on past experience in the Project
area.
2.        The labor requirement for afforestation, road building and fire
control are shown in Annex 2, Table 3. The average number of laborers
employed under the Project is about 1,630 per year. The cost of labor is
based on the Government's detailed labor grade system. The weighted average
unskilled labor wage is Fmg78,350 per year. This includes paid leave and
social insurance of 32% on net salaries. The permanent laborers are assumed
to be working 250 days a year and being paid 360 days a year. The non-
permanent laborers are also assumed to be working 250 days and paid for 310
days including paid leave.
3.        Equipment costs are based on quoted prices in Madagascar and do
not include any taxes or custom duties. The vehicle and equipment require-
ments are shown in Annex 2, Table 5.
4.        Buildings, housing and service road construction are assumed to be
awarded to local competitive bidding. The costs for the components are
calculated from quoted Madagascar local prices shown in Annex 2, Table 4.
5.        A detailed contingency calculation has been made taking account
for recent price increases. A physical contingency of 10% has been included
on service roads, buildings and housing and equipment. In view of the
adequate past cost records on which to base cost of plantation establishment
and roads, and due to the divisability of this work, no physical contingency
has been included on those items.
6.        The price escalations used for the Project cost are estimated to
be as follows:
Equipment            Civil Works
1974                    14                     18
1975                    il                     15
1976-80                  7.5                   12
This corresponds to a cumulative annual price increase of about 14% during
the Project period.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
7.        The Project cost calculated às mentioned above is Fmg 4,400 million
(US$17.2 million). The foreign exchange component is US$4.5 million and the
labor component would be about 30%. The yearly Project costs are shown in
Table 1.
October 10, 1974



MADAGASCAR
N1anacro Foacrestr Pro1cct
Proicat Coats V'
(92'g xnflli<is!
1974                         1975                          1976                           1977                          1978                           1979                       1974- 1979
Local   Focalan   Total      Local   Poreign   Total       Local   Portion   Total       Local   Forieig    Total      Local   Foreign         Total  Local   Forteign   Total      Local   For-in   Tot
Affoccatatioo
S-rveY.                                               3.2       -        3.2        9.6      0.1       9.7        9.6      0.1       9.7        9.6      0.1       9.7        9.6       0.1       9.7        6.3      0.1       6.4       47.9       0.5      48.4
Ocracrîca                                            10.9      0.1      11.0      34.0       0.4      34.4       34.0      0,4      34.4       34.0      0.4      34.4       34.0       0.4      34.4      22.8       0.3      23.1      169.7       2.0    171.7
SalI Prepacction                                     12.0      2.3      14.3       37.0      7.3      44.3       37.0      7.3      44.3       37.0      7.3      44.3       37.0       7.3     44.3       24.6       4.9      29.1      184.6      36.4    221.0
Fertilisation                                          -        -         -        17.6     32.0      49.6       17.6     32.0      49.6       17.6     32.0      49.6       17.6      32.0     49.6       17.6      32.0      49.6       88.0    160.0    240.0
Plactiog acd Plant Transport                           -        -         -       23.6        -       23.6      23.6        -       23.6       23.6        -      23.6       23.6        -      23.6       23.6        -       23.6      118.0        -      118.0
Wccdig                                                                    -2 2.8               -       2.9        2.8        -       2.8        2.                 2.9        2.9        -        2.9        2.8        -       2.9       14.0        -       14.0
SBb-total                                       26.1      2.4      20.5     124.6      39.8    164.4      124.6       39.8   164.4      124.6      39.8    164.4       124.6      39.8    164.4       97.7      37.3    135.0       622.2    198.9    821.1
Rcad Cc..troctioc ccd Fir- Ccntrol
Sanvice R  ods                                       38.3     23,6,    61.9       119.3     73.2    192.5          -          -       -          .         - -                 -         -         - _                  -         -      157.6      96.8    254.4
Plactation Road. acd Tracks                          10.1      2.9      13.0       27.8      8.1      35.9       23.0        5.7    20.7       23.0      5.7      28.7       23.0       5.7      28.7       15.4      3.8      19.2      122.3      31.9    154.2
Meintacancc cf Roado *cd Trac-k                       3.2       0.4.     3.6        7.3      0.9       8.2        9.l        1.0    10.1        9.7       1.4      11.1       12.8      1.9      14.7        8.6       1.3       9.9      50.7       6.9      57.6
Firabraak Cc..tr-ctic,                                0.7        -       0.7        1.9      0.1       2.0        1.9        0.1     2.0        1.9       0.1       2,0        1.9      0.1       2.0        1.3      0.1        1.4       9.6       0.5      10,1
Mcictc.ancc cf Firsbrsack                              -         -        -         1.1      0.3       1.4        4.4        0.S     5.2        7.7       1.3       9.0       12.0      2.1      14.1        9 1       1.5      10.6      34.3       4.0      4003
Fire Ccntrol                                          2.2                2.2        0.8      0.1       8.9        9.5        0.1     9.6       10.4       0.3     10.7        11.1      0.3      11.4        7.8       0.3      8.1       49.8       1.1      50.9
Mlicta.ac.. cf ths Pra-Protjct Roada
acd Fir-b-cakc                                    11.1      0.9      12.0       34.6      2.5      37.1       34.6        2.5    37.1       34.6       2.5     37.1       34.6       2.5      37.1       23.1       1.6     24.7      172.6      12.5    185.1
Sb-t.toal                                       65.6     27.8      93.4     200.8      85.2    286.0       82.5        10.2    92.7       87.3      11.3     98.6       95.4      12.6    108.0        65.3      8.6      73.9      596.9    155.7    752.6
Prclact Mac.a..a-t
Ad.  iatrati.o                                       29.5       3.8     33.3       94.4       9.9    104.3       98.1        5.6   103.7       95.9       2.1      98.0       98.1      2.3    100.4        62.4       1.2      63.6     478.4      24.9    503.3
BSildicgc and Hco.ing                                82.4      10.1     92.5      254.5      31.5    286.0         _          _                                                 -         -        -          -         - _              336.9      41.6    378.5
M.int..anc.  cf Boildicgc ccd Hou.iag                 5.4       0.7      6,1       19.6       2.4     22.0       19.6        2.4    22.0       19.6       2.4      22.0       19.6       2.4     22.0       13.6       1.8      15.4       97.4      12.1    109.5
SOb-tntcl                                      117.3     14.6    131.9       368.5     43.8    412.3       117.7        8.0   125.7      115.5       4.5    120.0      117.7       4.7    122.4        76.0       3.0      79.0     912.7      78.6    991.3
Eq.ipment
Vahi.clc  ccd Equipmenct                                -                   -         -      322.9    322.9         -              -         -         -        -                -         -         -         -         -         -          -      322.9    322.9
crlca.hopo *cd Spart F-rtc                           10.1       0.1     10.2       31.4       0.4     31,8       31.4        0.4    31.8       31.4       0.4      31.8       31.4       0.4     31.8       21.0       0.2      21 2      156.7       1.9    158.6
Sub-total                                       10.1      0.1      10,2       31.4    323.3    354.7        31.4        0.4    31.8       31.4       0.4      31.8       31.4      0.4      31.8       21.0       0.2      21.2      156.7    324.8    481.5
Rtsecrch. Toàinico *nd Stadica
Rsc-sch ccd Traiciog                                  5.4       2.2       7.6      16.6       6.8     23.4       16.6        6.8    23.4       16.6       6.8      23.4       16.6       6.8     23.4        11.0      4.5      15.5       82.8      33.9    116.7
Itodica                                                -      29.4      29.4         -       30.3     30.3         -        30.3    30.3         -         -        _           -         -         -          -        -        _           -       90,0      90'0
Scb-total                                        5.4     31.6      37.0       16.6      37.1     53.7       16.6       37.1    53:7       16.6       6.8      23.4       16.6       6.8     23.4       11.0       4.5      15.5       82.8    123.9    206.7
rasturo Improvcment                                      2.0        -        2.0       5.0        -        5.0        5.0         -      5.0        5.0        -       5.0        5.0        -        5.0        3.0        -        3.0      25.0         -      25.0
TOTAL                                     226.5     76.5    303.0       746.9    529.2  1,276.1       377.8       95.5   473.3      380.4      62.8    443.2       390.7     64.3    455.0       274.0      53.6    327.6   2.396.3    881.9  3,278.2
Phycical Contingaccito 2/                            12.1       3.4     15.5       37.4      42.8     80.2         -                                                                                -          -        -_-                49.5      46.2      95.7
Prico tcnting..cit- Civil Wo-k  3                     3.6       1.2      4.8       58.8      22.7      81.5      69.o       16.4    85.7       105.1     24       130.0      128.9      34.9    163.8      143.0      39.8    182.8       502.7    139.9    648.6
Equip-nt ccd Oth-r NMc-Civil Work Items 3/            4.2       1.4      5.6       57.0      56.7    113.7       38.3       10.6    49.1       53.1       3.0      56.9       78.3       5.0      75.3      57.3       4.1      61.4      28.4       81.6    362.0
0c6-toral Price Cocticgnccclt                    7.8      P.6      10.4      115.8      79.4    195.2      107.8       27.0   134.8      158.2      28.7    186.9       199.2    39.9    239.1        200.3      43.9    244.2       789.1    221.5  1,010.6
TOTAL PFOJECT COlT                       246.4      82.5    328.9       9oo.1    651.4  1,551.5       485.9      122.5   608.1      538.6      91.5    630.1       589.9    104.2   694.1        574.3      97.5    571.8   3.234.9  1,149.6  4.384.5
1/ Th. Project concis. t  cf 1/4 cf caltodar ycar 1974. cf 1975-78 *nd 3/4 cf cal-odcr y-ct 1979.
2/  Calcolatcd at 107 oc icvcstncctc ic rccdc, boildioga ccd equipment.
3/  Calcolatcd ca ohown in Annex 3 para. 6.
October 5, 1974



ANNEX 4
Nadagascar
Mangoro Forestry Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(U.  t000 )
Bank Group Fiscal               IDA Credit                       Bank Loan
Year and Quarter Eding      In Quarter      Citaiulative       In Quarter     Cumulative
1974/75
December                  -                 - -                             -
March                     500               500
June                      600             1,100               -             _
1975/76
September               1,100             2,200
December                1,300             3,500
March                   1;500             5,D300
June                      700             5,700
1976/77
September                 550             6,250
December                  500             6,750             100             100
March                                                       300         - 40
June                                                       400              800
1977/78
September                                                   500           1, 300
December                                                    400           1,700
March                                                       300           2,000
June                                                        500           2,500
1978/79
September                                                   500           3,000
December                                                    500           3,500
March                                                       400           3,900
June                                                        500           4,400
1979/80
September                                                  600            5,000
December                                                    600           5,600
March                                                       600           6,200
June                                                        550           6,750



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Organization, Research and Training
A. Present Forestry Organization
1.        The Directorate of Forestry (DF) is one of five Directorates in
the Ministry of Rural Development; the other four are the Directorates of
Planning, Livestock, Agriculture and Rural Development. The DF is respon-
sible for formulating forest policy, administering all State forests, main-
taining the unified State forest service, and implementing the large-scale
industrial plantations program. In addition, the DF is responsible for
national parks and wildlife protection, fresh water fisheries and soil con-
servation. The six provincial governments undertake some small-scale plant-
ation establishment work, the inputs for which are provided from their own
financial resources and for which technical advice is given by the provincial
field staff of the DF. The areas covered by the provincial activities are
not significant, amounting to only 300-400 ha a year in total. There are
no large-scale private forest plantations.
2.        The DF includes three service departments at headquarters:  (a)
reforestation and forest industries management; (b) national parks, wildlife
and fresh water fisheries; and (c) soil conservation. It also includes a
provincial organization which broadly follows the political divisions of
the country with forest officers at provincial, prefecture, sous-prefecture
and commune levels. This territorial organization supports the recurrent
operations connected with the natural forests (protection, control of ex-
ploitation and soil conservation) and also maintains small nurseries for
supply of seedlings to farmers and the provincial authorities.
3.        The service departments formulate the work and authorize the expend-
itures of the provincial organization for the three categories of operations
which they cover. The reforestation department includes a separate branch
responsible for industrial plantations. This department is also responsible
for inventory and management of all forests as well as all logging operations.
4.        The total number of staff employed by the DF is summarized below:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Forest Staff Employment
1970     1972
Professional foresters                                     15        15
Forest technicians                                         29        31
Forest rangers                                             99        87
Forest technical assistants and guards                    276       293
Administrative officers                                     6         8
Accountants                                                16        33
Clerical staff                                             29        30
Subordinate staff                                          73        79
Drivers/mechanics                                          57       136
Field assistants                                          111       227
Totals                                                    711       939
5.        The DF has competent and experienced staff and its organization
compares favorably with other Government agencies within Madagascar and other
Forest Services in African countries. The Reforestation Department has carried
out the existing Mangoro plantation scheme (about 5-6,000 ha per year) and in
addition has been in charge of several other plantation schemes covering about
3,000 ha per year. (Annex 1). The physical achievements have been impressive
and the standard of the plantations has reached a high level.
B. Project Organization
6.        The Project would be executed by FANALAMANGA, a corporation
(Societe d'Economie Mixte) to be established by Government with substantial
administrative and financial autonomy. During the Project implementation
period the majority of the shares of FANALAMANGA would be owned by the
State, but a small number would also be held by the Banque Nationale Malagasy
de Developpement; the corporation's structure would allow for additional
local or foreign private participation at later stages of development. Except
as Bank/IDA and Government shall otherwise agree, Government would not during
the execution of the Project sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of
its shares of the corporation. As a contribution to its equity capital,
Government would make available to the corporation:
(a)  the existing plantations, facilities and equipment of the
Mangoro plantation scheme;
(b)  Government's own contribution to the cost of the proposed
Project; and
(c)  an amount equivalent to such proceeds of the Bank Loan and
IDA Credit as Government shall withdraw from Bank/IDA for
Project implementation.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        The Director General of FANALAMANGA would have overall responsibil-
ity for Project implementation. He would be responsible to a Board of
Directors, including representatives of the Directorate of Forestry (DF) with-
in the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as representatives of the
Ministries of Economy and Finance, Interior, Planning, Public Works, and
Transport. The Board would have full responsibility for policy and financial
matters. FANALAMANGA would be built on part of the existing organization of
the Directorate of Forestry, and would take over the budget, personnel and
functions of the existing Mangoro plantation scheme; the corporation's head-
quarters would be located at Moramanga. The Director General would be sup-
ported for two years by an internationally recruited Forestry Specialist who
would advise on overall Project planning and implementation. This consultant
has been requested by the Government as at this time there are only a limited
number of professional foresters available in Madagascar.
8.        The Mangoro afforestation program would be carried out in three
divisions covering the Project area: North Division; Central Division and
South Division. Each division would be subdivided in two sections. The
Project would cover four of these six sections and the remaining area would
be covered under a second phase operation. By concentrating on 4 sections,
less staff would be needed, a factor which would facilitate in-service train-
ing. The southern section of the Central Division has already been planted,
and only maintenance would be needed in that area. The actual planting pro-
gram would, therefore, be restricted to only three sections. The day-to-da-y
operation of the Project would be under the direct supervision of three
Assistant Project Directors - the Plantation Director, the Engineering
Director and the Financial Director - who would be stationed at Project Head-
quarters in Moramanga.
9.        The Plantation Director would be directly in charge of the affore-
station program.- He would supervise three Divisional Forest Officers who
would be stationed in the three sections where Project afforestation would be
carried out. They would supervise nursery work, soil preparation, planting,
plantation management, fire control, and village development (school, dispens-
ary, library, coop. stores, etc.). Sectional Forest Officers would serve as
deputies to the Divisional Forest Officer until the sections were afforestated,
and they would then supervise maintenance operations. The Plantation Director
would also be directly responsible for research, training, topographical and
soil survey teams and disease control. The staff concerned with these activi-
ties would be stationed in the Central Division headquarters.
10.       The Engineering Director would be in charge of heavy machinery and
civil works. Three divisional Engineers would be responsible for construction
and maintenance of roads, tracks and firebreaks; maintenance of buildings and
housing; and operation of the workshops and stores in their divisions. A
Workshop Engineer and an Electrical Engineer would serve all three divisions
and would be located at the Central Division Headquarters. The Workshop
Engineer would be internationally recruited on a two-year contract and would
have a Malagasy counterpart.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
11.       The Financial Director would be responsible for budgeting, procure-
ment and cost control. Three Divisional Accountants would report directly to
the Financial Director.
C. Research and Training
12.       Research.  A considerable amount of forestry research has been
carried out with regard to plantation esta1lishment in the Project area.
Several organizations have been active in this field. The CTFT has been
engaged in ba3ic research and has operated several trial plots in Analabe,
Mahatsinje, Besakay and in the Haute Onive. The research includes trials
on soil preparation techniques, type of fertilization, amount of distribution
and localization of fertilizers, planting techniques, extension of the
planting season, mortality, stand density, and maintenance techniques, such
as weeding and thinning. In addition to pilot plantations, FAO has carried
out extensive species trials, and conducted soil surveys and forest inventories.
The results of these trials have been extensively used in the pilot plantations.
The pilot plantations form an excellent link between the basic research plots
and the new pulpwood plantations in the Project area. Research findings can
be tested on a larger scale and cost data can be accumulated. Recently a
Malagasy forestry research centre, the Centre National de Recherches Fores-
tieres, was established, wlhich will concentrate the research done by the DF
and other institutions.
13.       In view of the long-term nature of this Project, it is important
that a research component be included to help reduce risks and guide further
Project development. The research would be a continuation of the work des-
cribed above, but with additional growth and yield studies. Permanent sample
plots would be established according to acceptable statistical standards and
the growth data derived from these plots would form the basis for the studies.
A site map would be constructed from the data obtained by the topographic and
soil surveys. This site map, complemented with growth data, would result in
a site classfication of the plantations. Further yield tables for various
site classes would be constructed. A continuous inventory would have to be
carried out. This inventory would be most important for the construction of
management and logging plans. Establishment of more seed orchards would also
be of some importance.
14.       New aerial photographs will be needed to control the actual net
areas planted and to assess the failures of plantation establishment. The
aerial photography should be at a scale of 1:10,000 to 1:15,000. Existing
aerial photographs would be valuable tools for drawing up site maps based on
original vegetation and on topography; in conjunction with soil survey data
and growth data from permanent sample plots these would be essential aids
in deriving future yield estimates. In Madagascar the Bureau d'Etudes et the
Travaux Topographiques (BETT) would be capable of assisting with the aerial
photography and mapping.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
15.       Training.  A training centre would be set up in the Project area at
Analabe (Central Division). It would give courses for staff on the subpro-
fessional levels in large-scale plantation establishment and plantation
management. The centre would be headed by one forestry professional assisted
by three foresters. Provision would be included for staff consultants, travel,
equipment and vehicles.
October 10, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Production and Yields
Selection of Species
1.        Two fast growing long fibered pulpwood plantation species have been
successfully established on a commercial scale in Madagascar, Pinus kesiya
and Pinus patula. Of these two P. kesiya has been selected for the Mangoro
plantations, mainly because of the encouraging growth results obtained to
date. P. kesiya is suitable at elevations below 1,000 meters, while P. patula
is more adapted to ecological conditions above 1,000 meters. P. elliottii
has also been tested and has shown encouraging results, especially on poorer
sites in the Project area; it would therefore also be used on Project plant-
ations. Other species have recently been introduced and tested for adaptation
to the climatic, soil and ecological conditions in the Mangoro Valley.
Yields from Project Plantations
2.        As the earliest plantations in the Project area are only five years
old, only limited data is available to calculate the expected production from
the Project Plantations during their fifteen year growth period.  Estimates
have been made, however, on the basis of experience from similar plantations
both in Madagascar and abroad. Adjacent to Mangoro there are some small patches
of pine stands, remnants of village plots, which have trees older than 15 years.
These stands are too small to provide significant growth data, but along with
data from existing stands of P. patula near Antsirabe and in Matsiatra can
be used as an approximate guide. The same holds for growth data of P. kesiya
and P. patula elsewhere in the world. The determination of realistic yield
estimates is complicated by the fact that little is known about the average
site conditions in the Project area, and the data from a few trial plots can-
not therefore be automatically assumed to be representative. Finally, the
effect of fertilization on growth can only be demonstrated during the early
years of the plantations. It is therefore obvious that an analysis of avail-
able data must include a significant element of judgement.
3.        Comparing the available data of P. kesiya in Madagascar, one can
conclude that on the best sites a mean annual increment over bark (MAI o.b.)
of between 20-30 m3/ha/year can be achieved, with an increment on some
exceptional sites of over 30 m3/ha/year. The soils of Mangoro Valley have
been deforested for a long period and are generally degraded. It is antici-
pated, however, that with adequate soil preparation and fertilization the
Mangoro soils could reach the level of the soils on the better sites in



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Madagascar where kesiya pine was planted earlier. It has been estimated that
when the soil is mechanically treated and fertilized, a gross MAI o.b. of
20 m3/ha/year will be achieved on the plateau land and about 13 m3/ha/year on
slopes. This growth is in line with that on similar plantations elsewhere in
East Africa (Table 1).
4.        To arrive at the net volume under bark (ub) allowances have to be
made for the volume of bark (20%), establishment, including fire and wind
damage losses (12%).  The weighted net volume under bark, assuming that 80%
of the planted area will be on the plateau land and 20% on slopes, would be
13 m3/ha/year for the plantations established under the Project.
5.        The plantations already established in the Project area were planted
using less sophisticated techniques than those which vill be employed under
the Project - a factor which has resulted in under-stocked stands.  In the
calculation of the prelimninary felling schedule, a lower rate of growth from
earlier plantations has consequently been allowed for.
6.        As can be seen fron Table 2, some quantities of wood from outside
the Project area have been included in the schedule for the provision of wood
to the pulp mill. This is necessitated by the smaller planting area and the
lower yields in the earlier plantations, and would make it possible to start
up the mill earlier than would otherwise have been the case. The quantities
to be logged from the other area (Antsirabe) are 80,000 m3 in year 2 and
178,000 m3 in year 3. The mill is scaled to utilize all wood from the Project
area. At full production of the mill, a net volume of 1,170,000 m3/year would
be logged, which would yield 216,000 ton of bleached sulphate pulp per year.
August 20, 1974



ANNEX 6
Table 1
MADIAGASCAR
MANGORO FOHESTRY PRDJECT
Summary of Yield Data in Sbme East African Countries
Location              Species        Site   Approx.   lMean Annual Increment
Class   Rotation
Period     Over Bark   Under Bark
---- m3/ha --------
MMadagascar
Various            P. kesiya               10-30         2700
Ialatsara          P. kesiya               30            21.0
hatsiatra          P. patula       I       10            20.3
PF  patual      II      10            12.6
P. patula       III     10             6.5
P. patula       IV      10             2.3
Average                 10            15.0
.,axnbia             P. kesiya               15            13.0-21.0
'.Ialaw-i            P. kesiya               10                         12.3
P. patula               15            2h.9         18.0
r. patula       I       15                         307
P'. patula      II      15                         24.1
P. patula       III     15                         17.7
P. patula       IV      15                         11.2
P. patula
Average                 15                         17.5
Pines                                              18.0-22.0
Tanzania             Pines                                 20.0
3outh A<frIca        Pines
Transvaal          P. patula               15            23.4
.ielshioogte       P. patula               15            24.3
Swaziland            Pines                    15                        15.0



MADAGASCAR
MANGOIO FORE3TRY PROJECT
Annual Planting Schedule, Projected Yield and Cutting Schedule
All Areas Net Planted in Ha, Volumes tlnder Bark)
P3anting         Year     To be Cut                               Cutting Volume Available (Mangoro)                                      Pulp-           To be       Wood
easo____________  of      and                         Age Class 15                          Age Class 14               Total            mill            Supplied    Stock
Cut      Replanted         3                                                                                             Require-        From          at
the       MAI m    Theoreti-   Deficit                                                                       ment            Outside     Mill
First     Second    First    Following   per         cally         from       Actuel Cut       MJAF      Actual Cut                            (5.4 m3        (Antsi-
Rota-     Rota-      Rota-       Year      Year      Available   Previous                      m /ha/                                   3      per tsn)        rabe3
tion      tion       tion                  per ha       ha        Year ha      ha      OOOm3   vear       ha      OOOm      ha      OOOm        OOOm           OOOm        OOOm
1969/70   1984/85    1985        6000         7        3150            -      3150      328     8.24    2850       329     6000      657         540 *            -          37
1970/71   1985/86    1986        6000         8        5420         2850      2570      318      8.65    3430      415     6000      733         810             80          40
1971/72   1986/87    1987        6000         9        3910         3430       480       62      9.32    5520      720     6000      782         970            178          30
1972/73   1987/88    1988        6000          9       5820         5520        300      42    13.00    5700    1037       6000    1079         1080              -          29
1973/74   1988/89    1989        6000         13       6500         5700        800     156    13.00    5200       946     6000    1102         1080               -         51
1974/75   1989/90    1990        6000         13       7000         5200       1800     351    13.00    4200       764     6000    1115         1080               -         86
1975/76   1990/91    1991        6000         13       7000         4200       2800     546    13.00    3200       582      6000    1128        1080               -        134
1976/77   1991/92    1992        6000         13       7000         3200       3800     741    13.00    2200       400      6000    1141        1130               -        145
1977/78   1992/93    1993        6000         13       7000         2200       4800     936    13.00    1200       218      6000    1154        1155               -         144
1978/79   1993/94    1994        6000         13       7000         1200       5800    1131    13.00         -       -      6000    1131        1165               -         110
1979/80   1994/95    1995        6000         13       6000          200       6000    1170    13.00         -       -      6000    1170        1170               -         110
1980/81   1995/96    1996        6000         13       6000            -       6000    1170    13.00         -       -      6000    1170        1170               -         110
1981/82   1996/97    1997        6000         13       6000            -       6000    1170    13.00         -        -     6000    1170         1170              -         110
1982/83   1997/98    1998        6000         13       6000            -       6000    1170    13.00         -       -      6000    1170         1170              -         110
1983/84   1998/99    1999        6000         13       6000            -       6000    1170    13.00         -        -     6000    1170         1170              -         110
Additional  80,000 m 3                                                                                   3.
/ Addtionl 80,00 mrequired for pulp inventory which results in a total requiremert of 620,000 m .D



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECTS
Industrial Developments
A. Introduction
1.        Based on the results of an evaluation of the alternative industrial
uses for the wood from the proposed Mangoro plantations, it is concluded that
a 200,000 ADTPA bleached kraft pulp mill using all of the wood resources from
the Mangoro region should be selected as the basis on which to evaluate the
viability of the plantation program. All costs and financial estimates pre-
sented in this Annex have been based on prices and costs as of January 1974.
Pulp prices and markets as applied to zhe financial estimates are discussed
briefly, and are reviewed in further detail in Annex 8.
B. The Pulp Mill
General
2.        The 200,000 ADTPA bleached sulphate pulp mill upon which the estimates
have been based has been designed to utilize all the available wood from the pro-
posed 96,000 ha of the Mangoro plantations. It has been assumed that the
mlli would start production in 1985.  For the purpose of this study it has
been assumed that with small additional capital expenditures (after the mill
has reached the nominal rated capacity) for the removal of bottlenecks, the
mill could process all of the available pulpwood. This would correspond to
an annual production of 216,600 ADT. l`he proposed mill is a conventional
bleached sulphate pulp mill and is described briefly below.
Site
3.        The site of the mill has beer. located near the town of Mangoro at
the junction of the Mangoro River with the highway and railway from Tananarive
to the east coast.  The site has ample area for the mill and has easy access
to both the rail and highway.
Wood Handling and Preparation
4.        The maximum total volume of wood and bark processed at the mill would
be 1,370,000 m3 per annum. Logs would be delivered, with bark, in tree lengths
up to 15 m and debarked and chipped at the mill. Bark would be hogged for
fuel in the boilers. Storage would be provided for one month's log supply.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Pulping and Bleaching
5.        Conventional sulphate pulping would be carried out in a continuous
digester equipped with a diffusion washing stage and followed by a continuous
diffusion washer. After washing, the pulp would be screened and then bleached
in a conventional bleach plant consisting of six stages: chlorination, caustic
extraction, hypochlorite, chlorine dioxide, caustic extraction and chlorine
dioxide. After bleaching the pulp would be passed through cleaners, dried on
a conventional fourdrinier and airborne pulp dryer, slit, cut in sheets and
baled for shipment.
Chemical Preparation and Recovery
6.        Conventional sulphate chemical preparation and recovery systems
would be installed. Losses of pulping chemicals would be made up by spent
liquor from the chlorine dioxide generator and caustic produced in excess of
bleaching requirements. Sulphidity would be controlled by the injection of
sulphur into the cooking liquor.
7.        Bleaching chemicals would be produced on site.  Chlorine and caustic
would be produced from salt in an electrolytic plant. The sodium chlorate
required for the chlorine dioxide generator would be produced electrolytically
from salt. Sulphur dioxide and sulphuric acid would be generated from suit-
able sulphur burning equipment and sodium hypochlorite would be produced
from chlorine and caustic in a reactor.
8.        On this basis, the only chemicals purchased by the mill would be
sulphur, limestone and salt, except for water treatment chemicals. A small
amount of excess caustic would be produced and would be available for sale.
Mill Services
9.        Water would be pumped from the Mangoro River and treated to remove
suspended solids, iron and organic color. Steam would be generated at 40
atm pressure in the recovery boiler and a hog fuel/oil fired power boiler.
Steam would be passed through a back pressure turbo generator from which the
lower pressure process steam would be extracted. Electric power would be
generated by the back pressure turbogenerator unit to the extent dictated
by the steam requirements in the mill and the additional power would be
purchased from the national power supply authority.
10.       The mill would incorporate technology currently applied in the
industry to achieve levels of air and water pollution in balance with local
conditions. Plant design measures would reduce emissions and water consump-
tion. Effluent would be neutralized and treated to reduce the level of
suspended solids and biochemical oxygen demand to an acceptable level. Be-
low the proposed mill site the Mangoro River flows through relatively
mountainous escarpment terrain where there are few inhabitants for about 50
km. The river in this area has numerous rapids which would provide aeration
of the effluent.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
11.       The mill would include equipped workshops, mill stores, administra-
tion offices, personnel facilities and control laboratory facilities.
12.       It must be noted that the above description describes the mill
characteristics used in the preparation of estimates in the study. Changes
in the mill would possibly occur following detailed feasibility and design
development studies; it is not envisaged that these changes would significant-
ly alter the cost estimates, however.
C. Wood Availability
13.       The proposed pulp mill would be sized to utilize the total volume of
pulp wood available from the proposed Mangoro industrial plantations. The
projected availability of pulpwood from the Mangoro plantations plus the
proposed schedule of pulp mill wood requirements and any resulting purchase
of wood from other sources is shown in Annex 6, Table 2.
14.       During the second and third years of operation it would be necessary
to purchase 80,000 and 178,000 m3r ub respectively from stands outside the
Mangoro Project area. The Haute Onive area south of Tananarive, near Antsirabe,
would have 5,000 ha of P. patula plantations between the ages of 14 and 24
years by 1985, and it has been agreed that the additional pulpwood could be
obtained from this area.
Wood Costs
15.       For the purpose of this report the cost of pulpwood delivered to
the proposed Mangoro mill has been developed for wood from the proposed
Mangoro plantation as follows:
Stumpage                   =    Fmg 710/m3r
Logging and transport      =    Fmg 1,340/m3r
Total:          Fmg 2,050/m3r underbark (US$8)
D. Markets
16.       Based on the results of the market appraisal presented in Annex 8,
the following market distribution has been used to determine the annual net
sales and foreign exchange earnings of the proposed mill:
Domestic sales                            2% of total sales
Western European sales                   49% of total sales
Western Mediterranean sales              49% of total sales



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Based on the above market distribution the average estimated mill net price
used the economie analysis was Fmg 66,300 (US$260).
17.       Since there is a possibility of selling a portion of the mill's
production into the regional market, tie effect of the following alternative
sales distribution has also been assesaed:
Domestic sales                         2% of total sales
South African sales                   35% of total sales
Western European sales                33% of total sales
Western Mediterranean sales           30% of total sales
Average mill-net sales price          Fmg 63,400/ADT
18.       As noted elaewhere, there is another pulp mill proposed for the
Haute Matsiatra area; if this mill vere to produce bleached sulphate pulp,
it vould directly compete with the Mangoro mill on the domestic and regional
markets. The mill is planned as a 100,000 ADTPA unbleached sulphate pulp mill,
and for the purpose of this report it has been assumed that it would remain
as such. There are reservations regarding the viability of the Matsiatra
mill due no the location, low availability of water, and the high logging and
transport costs.
E. Capital Cost
19.       The estimated total investment required for the proposed pulp mill
is Fmg 35,542 million (US$139 million) with a foreign exchange component of
US$82 million. The costs are summarized below.



Fa~ge 5
Estimated Total Investment
Amount
Foreign
Exchange
(US$ Million   Component
Item                      (FBg Million)      Equivalent)   (US$ '000)
Plant capital
- structures                           4,930            19.3           2,900
- equipment                            17,998           70.6          60,165
- construction overhead                4,614            18.1           3,417
- engineering and contingencies         3,666           14.4           8,842
Total plant capital                      31,208          122.4          75,324
Working capital                           2,545             9.9           2,534
Opening-up expenses                         255             1.0            438
Interest during construction                820             3.2          3,200
Townsite development                        569             2.2            -
Feasibility and miscellaneous studies       145            0.6             420
Total                        35,542           139.3          81,916
Plant Capital
20.       The estimates for structures and equipment have been made on the
basis of direct costs only, i.e. the invoiced cost of materials and equipment
including freight, customs duty and the direct payroll cost of labor employed
in the installation of the materials and equipment.
21.       All indirect costs such as contractors supervision, purchasing,
expediting warehousing, accounting, rental or provision of construction equip-
ment, construction tools and temporary facilities, personnel costs and sub-
sistence allowances and contractor's profits are included as construction
overhead. The estimates contain an allowance for engineering services
normally required for the construction of a proposed mill.
22.       The estimate includes a 5 percent physical contingency allowance to
cover unforeseen costs arising from process and design changes and unforeseen
problems during construction. The estimates do not contain any provision for
inflation.
Working Capital
23.       The estimates of working capital provides for inventory levels as
follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Pulpwood                                       - 1 month
Imported chemicals and supplies                - 3 months
Local supplies and chemicals                   - 1 month
Finished products and materials in process   - 1 month
Accounts receivable have been based on 90 days production at cost.  Allowance
has been made for sundry prepaid expenses, cash reserves and accounts payable
credit.
Opening-Up Expense
24.       Opening-up expense covers the cost prior to start-up of salaries and
wages of staff, staff training, services of operations, consultants and
specialists, development of systems and procedures, legal expenses and sundry
supplies.
Interest During Construction
25.       Interest during construction has been based on a rate of 8-1/2 per-
cent per annum on the dispersed portion of the borrowed capital assuming that
60 percent of the total investment would be borrowed during the last half of
the engineering and construction period.
Townsite Development
26.       Townsite cost estimates have been developed on the basis that the
local and national governments would bear the cost of roads, schools, hospitals
and other social facilities. The pulp mill project would only bear the direct
housing cost as shown below, based on May 1973 unit costs adjusted to bring
the cost to a January 1974 level.
Townsite Devalopment Costs
Type of Accommodation                Unit Cost      Number    Total Cost
('000 Fmg)               (million Fmg)
Class I housing                        4,600           50         200
Class II housing                       1,600           50           80
Class III housing                        700          100           70
Class IV housing                         500           50          25
Bachelor accommodation                   300          150          45
Inflation May 73-Jan 74                  300
400         450



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Feasibility and Miscellaneous Studies
27.       Prior to the actual design and construction of the mill, the
following studies should be carried out:
Suggested             Estimated Cost
Study                         dates                ('000 Fmg)
Water quality study                   1974-76                     1,000
Flow records on Mangoro               1974-80                     1,000
Environmental study                   1979-80                    10,000
Meterological studies                 1978-80                     5,000
Soil testing program                  1980-81                     3,000
Detailed feasibility studies          1980-81                   100,000
120,000
28.       The water quality testing program has already been started by the
Forestry Department and initial results were reviewed during the mission and
modifications to the program suggested. Flow records have been made for the
Mangoro river in the past and it is suggested that flow recording be resumed.
29.       It is expected that the proposed pulp mill would not encounter any
difficulties in the disposal of its treated effluent nor with air pollution.
It is, however, considered advisable that an environmental study be carried
out to assess the environmental impact of the mill.
30.       Meterological studies should be carried out prior to the detailed
feasibility studies to provide the necessary data for mill design.
31.       Soil testing should be carried out prior to the mill design period,
perhaps during the feasibility studies phase when final site selection would
be made for the mill.
32.       Detailed feasibility studies would be carried out prior to the start
of mill design in sufficient detail to determine the final site and provide
sufficient details to arrange financing.
Forecast of Expenditures
33.       A construction schedule which provides for the completion of the
proposed pulp mill in time for start-up at the beginning of 1985 would require
that capital be available approximately in accordance with the schedule shown
below. This table also shows a schedule of the value of unskilled labor,
interest, and foreign exchange components of the total investment.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Foreign /1  Unskilled   Interest during
Total        Exchange       Labor       Construction
Year       Quarter   Investment       Component   Component       Component
(million Fmg)
1974-81 incl.  -           456             296          -              -
1982            1          160             123          18             -
2          370             247          12             -
3          653             431          37             -
4          937             616          49             -
1983            1        1,442             924          74             -
2        2,496           1,541         111             -
3        3,692           2,280         160             -
4        4,417           2,712         185              8
1984            1        5,149           3,082         210             97
2        4,367           2,490         160            172
3        3,807           1,985         123            238
4        3,624           1,787          86            305
After 1984      -        4,179            2,687          6             -
Total              35,749          21,201       1,231            820
/1  Foreign exchange component includes interest during construction.
F. Manufacturing Cost Estimates
34.       The estimated manufacturing costs for the initial 15 years operation
are summarized below.
Manufacturing Cost Estimates
Annual Manufacturing Cost       Unit Cost
Year           (million Fmg/A)             (Fmg/ADT)
1985               5,054                   44,011
1986               6,115                   40,756
1987               7,002                   38,907
1988               6,688                   33,113
1989               6,682                   33,409
1990               6,682                   33,409
1991               6,682                   33,409
1992               6,959                   33,286
1993               7,101                   33,162
1994               7,150                   33,175
1995               7,249                   33,458
1996               7,249                   33,458
1997               7,249                   33,458
1998               7,249                   33,458
1999               7,249                   33,458



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Basis of Estimates
35.       The estimates have been prepared based on the mill starting operation
at the beginning of 1985. It is estimated that the plant would operate at 50
percent, 75 percent, 90 percent and 100 percent of the nominal rated capacity
during the initial four years respectivrely. It is assumed that with minor
additional capital expenditures for the removal of operating bottlenecks that
production would exceed the nominal capacity beginning in the eighth year
of operation and attain a level of 216,600 ADTPA by 1995; this would be the
production equivalent to the estimated annual volume of wood available from
the proposed Mangoro plantations.
36.       The estimates have been based on an annual operating period of
350 days per annum with rated production being maintained over 333 days per
annum. The operating period allows for national holidays and mill-wide main-
tenance shutdowns. The number of production days provides for unscheduled
mill shutdowns for repairs and maintenance.
37.       The requirements of chemicals, other raw materials, fuel and power
have been based on the experience of similar mills in other parts of the world.
Pulpwood requirements have been based on pulp yield (5.4 m3(r) ub per ADT) and
density tests on Malagasy Pinus kesiya undertaken by CTFT and the current
UNDP/FAO project in Madagascar.
38.       The labor estimates are based on levels in similar mills and on
rates of pay in effect in similar industrial operations in Madagascar. The
labor estimates include only the direct labor cost with the indirect labor
costs such as payroll additives and employer paid benefits included in overhead.
Payroll additives and employer paid benefits are based on current mid-1973
practices in Madagascar.
39.       Administration and overhead cost estimates also include the costs
of management and supervision as well as indirect labor and salary costs.
The management and supervision estimated include provision for expatriate
staff in some key positions. In addition, provision is made for expatriate
start-up staff during the initial three operating years. A consumption
variance has been allowed for the initial three operating years to allow for
increased raw materials, power, fuel oil and other material requirements
during this period.
G. Financial Analysis
Gross Earnings
40.       The estimated gross earnings before interest, depreciation and
income taxes is shown below for the year 1990 when the mill would be
operating at rated capacity.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Gross Earnings Estimates
Item                                  Units              Amount
Year                                                       1990
Sales                                 ADTPA              200,000
Sales revenue                         million Fmg/A       12,230
Manufacturing cost                    million Fmg/A        5,420
Gross profit                          million Fmg/A        6,810
Investment                           million Fmg/A       29,000
Gross return on investment                                    23
Financial Rate of Return
41.       A financial rate of return has been calculated based on the above
statements for a period of 20 years.   The financial rate of return is
projected at 14.4%.
Sensitivity Analysis
42.       The effect on the financial analysis of including sales to South
Africa as outlined in the alternative marketing distribution has been
estimated to increase the financial rate of return from 14.4% to 15.2%
before taxes on income. The effect of increasing the stumpage charged on
the pulpwood from Fmg 710/m3r to Fmg 1,200/m3r has also been examined and
was found to decrease the financial rate of return from 14.4% to 13.2% before
taxes on income.
Conclusions
43.       Based on the results of the appraisal presented in this Annex, it
may be concluded that a bleached sulphate pulp mill of 200,000 ADTPA nominal
rated capacity based on the pulpwood resources from the proposed Mangoro
pulpwood plantations would be technically and financially feasible.
August 20, 1974



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Pulp Mill; Finsncisl Rate of Return
(Fg  milionJ
1982      1983       1984     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Revenues
Pulp Sales                           -          -         -       6,630   9,945   11,934   13,260   13,260   13,260  13,260  13,856  14,188   14,288   14,354  14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361
Residual Plant Val,                  -          -         -         -        - _              -                                                                                                                                         2,120
Total Revenues                  -          -         -       6,630   9,945   11,934   13,260  13,260   13,260   13,260   13,856   14,188  14,288   14,354  14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   14,361   12,241
Costs
Capital Cost                       2,576    12,043      16,324    2,366      160     160      160      160     579      579      160      160     160      160      160      160      160     160      160      160      160      160      160
L.ee Inte-eet Buring
Const,'uction                    _            8       812       _        -                -        -        -       -        -        -        -       --                                          -        -        ---
Capital Cost les- Interest    2,576     12,035     15,512    2,366      160      160     160      160      579     579      160      160      160     160      160      160      160      160     160      160      160      160      160
Working Capital                      -         -          606    1,600       206     145      (36)      24      85      121      109       36     (85)      24      -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Manufacturing C-et of Sa1esE/        -         -           -      4 321   6.059   6,912    6,556    6,564   6,569   6,569   6,837   6,984   7,030   7,122    7,127    7,127    7,127    7,127    7,127   7,127   7,127    7,127    7,127
Total Costs Excluding Taxes
on Inome                   2,576     12,035     14,906    8,287   6,425    7,217   6,680    6,748    7,233   7,279   7,106   7,180   7,105    7,306    7,287   7,287    7,287    7,287    7,287    7,287   7,287    7,287   7,287
NET BENEFITS                  (2,576)   (12,035)  (14,906)  (1,657)  3,520   4,717    6,580   6,512    6,027   5,981    6,750   7,008   7,183    7,048   7,074   7,074    7,074    7,074    7,074   7,074   7,074   7,074    4,954
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETMUN     14.46
Residual value taken as undepreoiated plent capital plus -orking capital le-s out.tanding debt in 2004.
Coet of finished p -oduvts inventory incloded in -orking capital.
July 18, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Markets and Prices
1.        General.  The total world production of paper and paperboard in
1971 was 128 billion tons. The corresponding production of wood pulp vas
104 million tons. The same year the world export of pulp was 15 million tons.
The breakdown of pulp production in different qualities for 1971 is shown
below:
Chemical pulp                                        66%
of which Unbleached sulphate pulp           41%
Bleached sulphate pulp             39%
Unbleached sulphite pulp            7%
Bleached sulphite pulp              9%
Dissolving pulp                     4%
Mechanical pulp                                      26%
Semi-chemical pulp                                    8%
100%
2.        Sulphate pulp accounts for about 55% of the world production and
can be produced either from long fibered wood-like pines (80%) or from hard
wood (20%).
3.        The quality of pulp produced from Pinus kesiya - the major species
in the Project area - has been found to be satisfactory (Appendix 1).
4.        As noted in Annex 7, it is proposed that a 200,000 ADTPA bleached
long fibered sulphate pulp mill be built to process the pulpvood yields from
the proposed Mangoro pulpwood plantations. In this Annex the potential
market available to the proposed mill is studied. The market study is broken
down into a study of the world market and the domestic market. Pricing data
for bleached sulphate pulp will be presented for those markets based on
June 1974 pulp prices, which corresponds to the mill cost estimates.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
A. World Markets
5.        In 1972 a forecast for world consumption of pulp and paper was
prepared by FAO which reflected a concern that future production could be
limited by a scarcity of raw material resources. The world consumption of
pulp used for paper is expected to increase between 1969 and 1985 from 110
million tons to 210 million tons or by about 4% per year (Table 1).
6.        World trade in pulp and paper expanded during the sixties at a rate
cf about 6.3 percent per annum. The greater part of the world trade has been
concentrated in the developed regions. In 1967 North America and Western
Europe jointly accounted for 93 percent by value of the world pulp and paper
trade. The trade balances by 1985 are projected to be as shown below:
Projected 1985 Paper Pulp and Paper Trade Balances
(Million metric tons)
Region                   Paper           Paper Pulp
Western Europe                     -2.35             - 7.85
North America                     +5.80              +11.83
Japan                             +1.90              - 0.89
Oceania and South Africa           -0.90             - 0.05
U.S.S.R.                          +1.37              + 1.40
Eastern Europe                     -1.15             - 1.56
China                             +0.15              - 0.71
Africa                             -0.40             - 0.20
Asia and Far East                  -0.72             - 1.21
Latin America                      -2.33             - 0.26
Middle East                        -1.37             - 0.37
Total World                    O                + 0.03
7.        Western Europe, which is currently an importer of pulp and paper
products, would be a significantly larger importer of both pulps and paper.
North America is projected to have the largest export potential; exports are
forecasted to double between 1969 and 1985. The only other region projected
as an exporter of pulp is the U.S.S.R., but its trade surplus would be counter-
balanced by the Eastern Europe deficit.
Long-Fibered Chemical Pulp Demand and Supply
8.        The historical consumption of long-fibered chemical paper grade
pulps (bleached and unbleached) is summarized below:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Consumption of Long-Fibered Chemical Wood
and Non-Wood Paper Pulp
1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
<-----------------(100 ADT) -
Total                35,805  37,245  40,344  40,811  44,123  47,581  47,052
Latin America                707     721      888     835      900      906   1,144
Africa                       190     187      171     211      197      180     191
Asia and Far East /1         617     620      676      790     876      956   1,005
Japan                      1,501   1,506   1,680   1,783   2,004   2,262   2,551
Oceania                      353     379      411     424      374      481     526
Sub-total             3,368   3,423   3,826   4,043   4,351   4,785   5,417
Western Europe             9,610   9,741  10,369  10,520  11,152  12,169  12,795
North America            22,827  24,091  26,149  26,248  28,620  30,627  28,840
/1   Excluding Japan and China.
9.        North America is the dominant consumer of long-fibered pulp.  The
growth of long-fibered pulp consumption has been lower in most regions than
the growth for total chemical paper grade pulps due to the substitution of
short-fibered pulps for previous long-fiber uses.
10.       The estimated share of bleached grades in the total consumption of
long-fibered pulp is estimated to be as follows:
Region                   1965          1970
North America                 40%           39%
Western Europe                43%           52%
Others                        32%           49%
11.       The share of long-fibered pulp in the total consumption of bleached
pulps has decreased in those countries using a high percentage of long-
fibered and increased in the countries using a low percentage of bleached
long-fibered pulpe.
12.       Softwood (long-fibered) pulp accounted for about 85% of the total
chemical paper grade wood pulp imports into Western Europe in 1964; by 1970
this share had declined to about 73%.  In North America, softwood pulps
accounted for 91% of the chemical pulp exports in 1964 and 85% in 1970.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
13.       The projected consumption of bleached long-fibered chemical paper
pulp developed by Jaakko Poyry (one of the leading consultant firms on the
forest industry) is shown below.
Demand for Bleached Long-Fibered Chemical Pulp
Region                      Demand (million ADT)
1970      1975       1980       1985
Latin America           0.71      1.12       1.63        2.11
Africa                  0.06      0.12       0.22       0.39
Asia and Far East       0.55      0.87       1.46        2.50
Japan                   1.14      1.78       2.81       4.05
Oceania                 0.22      0.39       0.65       0.98
Western Europe          6.71      8.02       9.05       10.01
North America          11.39     13.48      15.32       16.82
WJorld Total /1      20.78     25.78      31.14      36.86
/1   Excluding U.S.S.R., Eastern Europe and Mainland China.
14.       The total world growth is thus projected at about 4 percent per
annum during the 1970s falling to about 3.5 percent during the 1980s. The
growth in demand is therefore projected to be about 16 million tons over
the fifteen-year period or slightly over 1 million tons growth per annum.
15.       Over 85 percent of the current world supply of bleached long-
fibered pulp is produced in Western Europe and in North America. Analyses
of the fiber resources of Western Europe suggest that this region may be
reaching the ultimate limit of its supply potential. Nevertheless, improved
utilization and silvicultural practices may allow further expansion in the
relatively short-term future. In North America, on the other hand, there
are large reserves of unutilized or under-utilized coniferous forests.
The expansion potential for long-fibered pulp production in Canada is
believed to be of the order of 10 million tons annually and in the United
States some five million tons. Thus, all of the projected increase in
world demand to 1985 could conceivably be met by North American supplies--
albeit at higher cost as the less accessible wood resources are tapped.
16.       All balances of supply and denand for long-fibered bleached sul-
phate pulp into the 1980s report increasing deficiencies in Western Europe
and in Japan, with the substantial part of these deficiencies being met by
North American, and in particular Canadian, suppliers. By 1985 the import
requirements for this grade into Europe are expected to reach 2.6 million
tons annually, and in Japan, 1.7 million tons.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
17.       The projected shortage of most pulp and paper grades should persevere
until 1978, and many of the small pulp and paper purchasers are having dif-
ficulty obtaining their requirements. If the projected demand continues, the
known expansion plans of the industry indicate that this condition is likely
to continue and seems to verify the projected shortage anticipated by most
forecasts.
18.       It is of interest to compare approximate comparative margins for
bleached sulphate pulp produced in M4adagascar and Western Canada. A compar-
ison based on conditions prevailing in May 1973, at which time the currency
exchange rate used was Fmg 230 = US$1, is shown below.
Comparative Gross Margin on Bleached Sulphate Pulp Sales
Item                           Madagascar          Canada
(US$/ADT)        (US$/ADT)
Selling price                                      228.00            232.00
Freight, loading, insurance,
commission, etc. (excluding
quantity rebate)                                  39.20             32.00
Manufacturing cost:
- wood                                            48.10             60.10
- chemicals                                       10.80             16.00
- other materials                                 14.90             10.20
- fuel and power                                  11.00              6.20
- labor                                            4.90 /1           9.50
- administration, etc.                            11.40             14.00
Total manufacturing cost                       101.10           116.00
Depreciation allowance                              26.80             23.50
Gross margin                                        60.90             60.50
/1   Includes provision for training expenses of plant operators.
19.       The indicated margin for a Canadian producer is slightly lower
than that for the proposed Mangoro Project; however, the difference is not
significant. Although there are adequate wood resources available for
expansion in Canada, future costs are likely to be higher than at present.
It would therefore appear that a Malagasy producer could hope to compete
on a financial basis comparable to that of a new producer in Canada.
20.       This preliminary assessment of the world market for bleached
sulphate pulp with respect to the Madagascar Project can therefore be summed
up as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(a) By 1985, Europe and Japan will be importing, in total, some
4.3 million tons of long-fibered bleached sulphate pulp annually.
(b) The principal source of this pulp will be Canada; Madagascar
would have to compete with Canadian producers.
(c) Based on preliminary comparative manufacturing cost
estimates, it appears that Madagascar could have a slight
cost advantage over its major competition in the European
market, but that Canada would be more competitive on the
Japanese market.
B. Domestic Market
21.       The current domestic market for paper and paperboard is 11,500 tons
annually, and even if substantial growth were projected the domestic market
could absorb only a small amount of the proposed mill's output. However,
since the domestic market offers high mill net prices and a possible protected
market, it is of importance to the Project.
Historical Paper Consumption
22.       Consumption of paper in Madagascar has grown at an average rate of
8 percent per annum during the past decade. The largest growth has been in
the cultural papers sector. Madagascar's only paper producer, Papeteries de
Madagascar, expects continued growth in the domestic paper market of 5-6
percent annually. The consumption of paper by grades in 1971 is summarized
below.
Consumption of Paper by Grades in Madagascar - 1971
Category                     Apparent Consumption
(tons)
Newsprint                                           700
Printing and writing                              4,400
Linerboard                                          600
Other kraft packaging paper and board             1,000
Other packaging paper and board                  3,760
Tissue                                              200
Speciality grades                                  800
Total                                       11,460
23.       The per capita paper consumption in Madagascar is on the order of
1.5 kg. This is higher than some African and Asian countries but is still
very low by world standards.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Projected Demand for Paper
24.       Based on the assumption that real economic growth will continue at
a rate of 1.85 percent per annum and on the assumption of the Malagasy
Government that population will increase at 2.5 percent per annum, the
projected demand for paper is summarized below based on the projected growth
rate of 5 and 6 percent per annum projected by the management of Papeteries
de Madagascar.
Projected Demand for Paper in Madagascar 1971-1990
Item                    Units                     Amount
1971    1975    1980    1985    1990
Population                  Million        7.66    8.46    9.57   10.82   12.25
GDP per capita              Million
1964 Fmg    23,800  25,600  28,100  30,800  33,700
Paper consumption
projection based on
historically observed
income elasticity
of 1.8                    tons         11,500  14,500  19,300  25,800  34,400
Paper consumption
based on world
consumption
income curves             tons         11,500  14,400  19,100  25,400  33,800
Paper consumption
based on growth rates:
5 percent per annum    tons          11,500  14,000  17,000  22,800  29,100
6 percent per annum    tons          11,500  14,500  19,400  26,000  34,800
25.       Comparing these projections, it can be seen that the 6 percent growth
rate corresponds with the demand estimates based on the projected economic
growth.
Projected Demand for Pulp
26.       The amount of pulp which can be consumed in Madagascar depends on
the installed paper manufacturing capacity as well as on the overall demand
for paper. The ultimate maximum capacity of the Papeteries de Madagascar
mill is some 14,000 tons per annum. At this production rate, based on its
current grade mix, the mill's pulp consumption would be approximately as
follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Pulp Grade             Annual Quantity
(tons)
Groundwood pulp                    4,150
Unbleached sulphate                  800
Bleached sulphate -
long-fibered                     1,650
Bleached sulphate -
short-fibered                    3,100
Sulphite                           1,200
Waste paper                        3,100
27.       For the above pulp consumption a mill producing bleached sulphate
long-fibered pulp from pine could be expected to supply all of the bleached
sulphate long-fibered pulp, and displace all of the sulphite pulp and a
large portion of the bleached sulphate short-fibered pulp. The maximum
total demand for bleached sulphate pulp would therefore be on the order of
4,400 tons per annumi with the paper mill operating at full capacity.
Papeteries de Madagascar expects the paper mill to be operating at full
capacity from the mid-1980s. The domestic demand for pulp could only
increase if another paper machine were installed in Madagascar, and this
seens unlikely before the early 1990s. For the purpose of this study, it
has therefore been assumed that the total domestic market for bleached
sulphate pulp from pine would be 4,400 tons per annum.
28.       In the basic financial analysis for the proposed mill based on the
Mangoro pine plantations, it has been assumed that the domestic sales would
be 2% of the total sales or approximately 4,000 tons per annum. However,
consideration has not been given to possible competition from a proposed
pulp mill in the Haute Matsiatra area approximately 300 km south of Tananarive.
It has been proposed that a 120,000 ADTPA unbleached sulphate pulp mill be
built based on the Pinus patula plantations in the Matsiatra area. In 1971
an FAO mission investigated the proposed pulp mill to determine the technical
and economical feasibility of establishing a pulp and paper industry in
Madagascar. The mission found that the available water flows were minimal
for the proposed 100,000-ton unbleached sulphate pulp mill and would be
undesirable for a bleached sulphate pulp mill. The mill would be located
in the center of the island and the pulp would have to be trucked either to
the railway at Antisirabe (230 ka) or to Tulear (550 km). With increasing
pulp prices interest is being shown in this mill and discussions in Madagascar
indicated some interest in an unbleached sulphate mill. If it were to be
an unbleached mill, there would be no competition with the Mangoro mill,
but if it were a bleached mill it would probably capture a large portion
of the domestic market. In the previous FAO/UNDP report it was recommended
that the MIatsiatra plantations be developed for mechanical wood products.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
C. Prices
General Price Trends
29.       Except for minor fluctuations, pulp prices have remained relatively
stagnant over the last two decades, and the profitability of the industry has
been low for the last decade. During the 1950s and early 1960s, the profit-
ability of the industry was maintained at an acceptable level due to increased
productivity through technological improvements and increased mill capacities,
and the industry vas able to attract new investment. In the latter part of
the 1960s, increases in productivity were not able to keep pace with
increasing costs, and profits declined accordingly, The performance of
listed pulp prices since 1950 is illustrated by the following average annual
listed price index for bleached sulphate long-fiber pulps.
Year                  Index /           f.o.b. USA          c.i.f. West Europe
US$/ADST /2             US$/ADT
1950                  84.1                 124
1951                 104.2                 155
1952                  96.7                 143
1953                  96.7                 143
1954                  96.7                 143
1955                  98.5                 145
1956                 101.5                 150
1957                 102.9                 152
1958                 104.7                 155
1959                 104.7                 155
1960                 104.2                 154
1961                  98.3                 145
1962                  95.2                 141
1963                  94.3                 139
1964                  98.4                 145
1965                 100.0                 147.50
1966                 100.0                 147.50
1967                 100.0                 147.50
1968                 100.0                 147.50
1969                 100.0                 147.50
1970                 109.5                 162                     175
1971                 111.6                 165                     186
1972                 110.0                 162                     191
1973 lst quarter                           182                     201
2nd quarter                           192                     212
3rd quarter                           210                     232
4th quarter                           237                     274
1974 lst quarter                                                   293
2nd quarter                                                   350
/1   Source:  Bureau of Labor statistics, U.S. Department of Labor.
/2   Air dried short ton.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
30.       The above index is based on current prices.  The base year is 1967
with a price of US$147.50 per ADST. In 1951 in the Korean war market boom,
the actual sales price of bleached kraft long fiber pulps reached US$200 per
ADST; however, this lasted for only six mDnths and the price dropped back to
US$140-150 per ADST. From 1952 until 1970 the price fluctuated between US$140
and US$160 per ADST and the price has begun to climb only since 1970. Most
other pulps have followed a similar pattern.
31.       There are several reasons behind the price performance during the
1960s. The primary reason has been excess capacity (supply), particularly
in sulphate pulps, due to large expansions in the industry during this period.
In North America this expansion partly arose from government policies which
comitted forent companies to expand or lose their wood supply agreements;-
however, the main reason was that the industry had enjoyed a period of good
profitability and their financial positions were such as to encourage expansion.
32.       Due to the rapid expansion, marketing of the increased capacity
became more and more difficult.  In an attempt to keep supply and demand in
balance and to protect prices, Scandinavian and North American producers cut
back on production, but pulp prices still weakened and rebates were granted.
The profitability of the industry has therefore been drastically affected
not only by unsatisfactory prices but by reduced production as well as in-
creased manufacturing costs. In 1972 the demand for pulp and paper products
reached the point where shortages started to occur in most types of papers,
resulting in significantly increased pulp prices.
33.       A recent analysis by FAO based on current projections of consumption
and production fias indicated that the current shiortage of market pulp is ex-
pected to continue at least until 1985..
34.       It is difficult to draw any conclusions regarding future pulp
prices from the performance in the last twenty years. In general the
opinion of the industry is that prices are now moving towards their proper
level after the long stagnation period and that these prices must be main-
tained to provide sufficient profitability to encourage the future expansion
of the industry to meet future pulp requirements.
35.       An important factor influencing pulp prices is the cost of wood.
It is quite certain that wood costs will be increasing in the future, at
least in the major pulp producing countries; logging and silvicultural costs
are increasing and in general the most easily accessible forests have been
utilized, making it necessary to open up the new and less accessible, higher
cost forest areas.
36.       Other factors exerting an upward pressure on production costs and
pulp prices are as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 11
(a) Ri8ing wage rates for labor in the major pulp producing countries.
In the past improved productivity has to a large extent compensated
for increasing wages, but this is now becoming more difficult to
accomplish. In British Columbia and Canada wage rates increased by
52 percent between 1960 and 1968, whereas productivity only
increased by 43 percent. In the USA vage rates increased by 24.3
percent between 1965 and 1969, whereas productivity increased
by only 16 percent.
(b) The industry has become wary of creating over capacity as was the
case in the last decade, and future capacity increases are going
to be more carefully plannet. With most of the lower cost wood
resources nov utilized, the incentive of achieving control over
the low cost wood resources no longer exists, and this should tend
to lead to a more orderly development of pulp capacity in the
future.
(c) The industry in the major pulp producing countries is faced with
significant cost increases due to pollution abatement measures.
A recent study by FAO indicated that a possible price increase of
US$8.00 per ADT would be reasonable for bleached sulphate pulp
based on early 1973 cost data. This cost was based on an analysis
of the costs on both new and existing mills.
Mill Net Prices
37.       Export Prices.  The European prices are based on June 1974
c.i.f. prices of US$340 per ADT in Northwest Europe, US$350 per ADT for
West Mediterranean ports.
38.       In order to arrive at the mill net sales price for the proposed
Mangoro pulp mill it is necessary to deduct for quality, cash payment,
insurance, freight, port charges and agents' commissions. Pulp tests on
Pinus kesiya show that the pulp properties compare favorably with pulp from
Pinus pinaster from Southern Europe and with pulp from the southern US.
On this basis it is reasonable to assume that the pulp would sell at a
discount of US$4.00 per ADT which corresponds to the historical discount
for southern US pine pulps.
39.       Domestic Prices.  In mid-1973 sulphite pulp for newsprint was
being imported from France and bleached sulphate pulps from Sweden and the
United States. The prices paid for these pulps are estimated as follows,
f.o.b. Papeteries de Madagascar:



ANNEX 8
Page 12
Grade                                 Price
cif Tamatave      Handling and      fob Mill
Fmg/ADT        Freight Fmg/ADT   Fmg/ADT
Sulphite pulp          95,875              6,125         102,000
Sulphate pulp          99,875              6,125         106,000
Based on the above delivered prices, the mill net price in June 1974 for
domestic sales from the proposed mill has been developed as follows:
Fmg/ADT
Price delivered to paper mill                    99,400
Selling expense                                   1,800
Rail freight                                        800
Mill net price                                102,000 (US$400)
40.       During periods of pulp shortages pulp suppliers will concentrate
on supplying their major consumers and small consumers such as Papeteries de
Madagascar have to pick up higher priced spot tonnages. It can therefore
be assumed that the the prices used are probably conservative and that the
prices will probably increase significantly due to the projected pulp
shortages and increasing world wood prices.
41.       Under current market conditions, given the pulp shortage, quantity
rebates are not commonly being given. At the present time small pulp pur-
chasers are paying high premiums to obtain their pulp requirements. However,
over the last twenty years, rebates for large quantity sales have been common
and therefore a 1 percent rebate based on the c.i.f. price has been allowed
in the mill net price calculations.
42.       Current ocean freight rates from Madagascar to Europe are extremely
high and would not be representative for large export pulp shipments. The
freight costs used in the above mill net price calculations have been esti-
mated based on current charter rates for 15,000 to 20,000 tons capacity
vessels.
43.       Rail freight from the mill site to Tamatave has been based on an
estimated rail tariff of Fmg 5 per ton-km.  Insurance has been based on levels
currently in effect for international pulp and paper shipments.
44.       Sales commissions have been based on 2-1/2 percent of the c.i.f.
price plus 1/2 percent of the c.i.f. price for "delcredere". Delcredere is
normally handled by the sales agent and is insurance against failure of
payment.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
45.       Based on current sales practices, the mill net price corresponding
to June 1974 prices are below:
Estimated Mill Net Price/ADT
Item                Domestic               European Region
Western
Mediterranean       Rotterdam
c.i.f. Port (June 1974)           -                350.00            340.00
Less quality discount           -                  4.00              4.00
Sub-total c.i.f. price          -                346.00            336.00
Less:  Cash discount (1.5%)       -                  5.20              5.20
Ocean freight             -                  30.00             35.00
Insurance                 -                   2.00              2.50
Commissions and
delcredere (3%)         -                  10.40             10.40
Dock Handling and
Loading                 -                   5.00              5.00
Rail freight              -                   6.00              6.00
Mill net price                 400.00              287.40            271.90
Less quantity rebate            - _3.40                              2.72
Mill net price after rebate  400.00                284.00            269.18
Fmg equivalent at
US$1 = Fmg 255              102,000               72,420            68,641
In the economic analysis the more conservative mill net price of US$260/ADT was
applied.
46.       It can be concluded that the proposed mill in Madagascar would be
able to sell all of its pulp excess to domestic and regional sales on the
European market after 1985.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Pulp Quality
1.        A number of independent laboratory pulping tests have been carried
out on Pinus kesiya grown in Madagascar, Zambia and the Philippines. As part
of the tests on Malagasy P. kesiya, comparative tests were not run on a known
commercial pulp species under the same conditions and therefore the results
can only be considered as indicative. The Tropical Products Institute tests
do however compare their strength data on Zambian Pinus kesiya with those of
commercial pulps and a comparative pulping test on Pinus sylvestris (Scots
Pine) from the UK.
2.        P. kesiya is not a particularly resinous species and no significant
problems are expected with regard to the manufacture of sulphate pulp.
3.        The fiber dimensions provide an indication of the expected pulp
quality. The important fiber characteristics are fiber length, fiber diameter
and cell wall thickness. These characteristics are summarized below for
several species.
Fiber Characteristics
Cell Wall
Species          Source         Fiber Length      Fiber Diameter      Thickness
(mm)             (microns)          (microns)
Pinus kesiya        Madagascar      3.7 ± 0.7            69 ± 9           5.2 ± 1.5
Pinus kesiya        Zambia          2.5                   50              6.7
Pinus kesiya        Philippines    2.9                   52               7.2
Pinus patula        South Africa   2.9 t 0.3               -                -
Pinus elliotti      Australia       3.3 ± 0.4
Pinus taeda         Australia       3.2 ± 0.3              -                -
Picea abies         Scandinavia    3.5                    27              2.4
Pinus elliotti      Southern US    2.3                   36               3.8
Pinus sylvestris   United Kingdom 2.9                    28               3.2
4.        Long fibers tend to give pulps with high tear resistance; fibers
with thin cell walls tend to bond together well and give pulps with high
bursting and tensile strength. The fiber characteristics of P. kesiya from
Madagascar indicate that the result would be a pulp having a high tearing
strength, although this would be achieved at the expense of the bursting and
tensile strengths.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.        As already noted, comparative laboratory pulping tests between
Malagasy P. Kesiya and known commercial wood species have not been made.
However, the qualitative remarks of analysts carrying out the laboratory
analyses, based on their knowledge of commercial species, do provide an
indication of the pulp qualities compared to known commercial species.
These are summarized below:
(a)  A pulping test carried out by CTFT concluded that the pulp
characteristics of Malagasy P. kesiya are almost identical
to those of P. pinaster pulped commercially in southern
Europe.
(b)  Pulping tests carried out for the FAO/UNDP project indicated
that Malagasy P. kesiya would yield a pulp having a higher
breaking length and burst factor but lower tear factor than
the P. patula pulped in South Africa.
(c) From the results of the pulping tests by Tropical Products
Institute, it was concluded that the pulp from Zambian
P. kesiya compared favorably with commercial pine pulps
from the southern US and Canada, having a higher tearing
strength and slighly lower burst and breaking length than
Canadian pulp and being stronger than the southern US pulp
in all respects.
6.        In comparison with the laboratory pulped P. sylvestris, the Zambian
P. kesiya pulp showed higher bulk and tearing strength but lower breaking
length and bursting strength than the P. sylvestris pulp. This result is as
would be expected from the fiber characteristics shown in the table above.
7.        In general it may be concluded that P. kesiya from Madagascar
should produce a pulp with a high tearing strength and moderate bursting
and tensile strengths. The pulp can be considered as typical of the fast
growing pines and should compare favorably with other fast growing pine
species which are pulped commercially. There does not appear to be any
quality limitations to pulp from P. kesiya from Madagascar which would
prevent its ready acceptance on world markets.
8.        Since pulp from Malagasy P. Kesiya is typical of the fast growing
pine pulps, it would not be able to compete in price with the Scandinavian
or Canadian coniferous pulps having long narrow fibers like Picea abies.
These pulps command a premium oyer the pulps produced from plantation pine
in the southern US, and it is likely that the P. kesiya pulp would sell for
the same price as southern US pine pulp,
October 30, 1974



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY FROJECT
The Outlook for Consumption of Pulp in Paper to 1985
(million metrie toIIs)
Other Paper and
Region                 ,Total Consumption              Newsprint         Printing & 1ftiting         Paper board    _
1969 - 1975    1980    1985    1975    19      1985    1975    1980    1985    1975    1900    1985
Western Europe      27.10   33.41   41.77   52.32    6.17    7.02    8.20    6.41    7.79    9.55   20.83   26.96   34.57
North America       53.43   59.20   68.81   78.22   13.13   15.68   17.08    7.61    9.26   10.97   38.46   43.87   50.17
Japan               9.17   12.42   21.44   29.58    2.20    3.63    4.72    1.47    2.57    3.82    8.75   15.24   21.04
Oceania and
South Africa       1.94   2.34    3.62    4.73    0.61    0.88    1.10    0.26    0.31    0-43    1.47    2.43    3.20
U.S.S.R.             6.35    8.43   11.36  15.61    1.66    2.26    3.16    1.53    2.12    3.00    5.24    6.98    9.45
Eastern Europe       3.78   5.19    6.58    8.61    o.69    0.80    1.03    0.73    1.05    1.36    3.77    4.73    6.22
China                3.10   4.28    5.63    7.14    0.50    0.66    0.87    0.93    1.29    1.69    2.85    3.68    4.58
Africa               0.20    0.30    o.52    0.96    0.03    0.05    0.11    0.06    0.12    0.24    0.21    0.35    0.61
As%a & Far East      1.86    2.92    4.40    6.14    0.86    1.31    2.00    0.77    1.14    1.60    1.29    1.95    2.54
Latin America       2.59    3.42    4.60    6.33    0.55    0.90    1.51    0.43    0.55    0.70    2.46    3.15    4.12
Middle East         0.18    0.29    0.46    0.70    0.04    0.09    0.16    0.06    0.10    0.15    0.19    0.27    0.39
World             109.70  132.20  169.19  210.34   26.44   33.28   39.94   20.26   26.30   33.51   85.52  109.61  136.89
1/ Mean of 1965, 1969 & 1970 (1970 preliminary figures only).
May 20, 1974
Cr>



8   8  -.   'V  t-                           ~~~~~~~TablelI
88    g  g                           8
8 8            °   5«               °_
88 I   \O                    8      OC 
g             ag    I   O   3
i~~~                                     ~~~~~ O  gt 
*~~~~~ i              O a    i          i
S°    8         S       `
e0    g         H        0
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                    II       m
t                                ~~ ~~           ~~~~~g  g  O    
c     g         c0   
i1                        t t                   ,tO-    te
FI               _' 
S            N g    g c   c  ec
t         t    I   B           t     :         ' g ' `9              t-
C  O                                O Ô 1
8              8    S            O    t-   a   &   e
o   g          N-                                                          g     
.  c   N   N'~ INo#1 5



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Costs and Export Value of Output of Program
(Fmg million)
Pulp Mill
Maintenance                   Firebreaks,                  Investment      Overhead                      Total       Fcreignge
of Pre-       Roads         Maintenance    Logging           and       Administration      Wood       Foreign      Exchange
Project        & Road           & Fire      anid Log      Operating       Workshop        Purchase     Exchane      Value of                     Balance
Year    Plantation    Plantation     Maintenance      Control       Transport       Cost         Research        Antsirabe       Cost±/     Output        Balance     (us$ mill.)
1974        15.6          1.0            32.5                                                        7.2              -56.3                             (  56.3)        (  .2)
1975       515,7          30 o99.6                      o.4             -            -              20.1              -          638.8        -         ( 638.8)        ( 2.5)
1976       514.7          3.0            11.1           1.0             -            -              15.0              -           84.8        -         (  84.8)        (  .3)
1977        54.7          3.0            11.2           1.8             -            -              10.2              -           80.9        -         (  80.9)        (  .3)
1978        54.7          3.0            11.9           2.8             -                           lo.4              -           82.8        -         (  82.8)        (  .3)
1979        72.7          3.0            27.3           3               -                           10.2              -          116.2        -         ( 116.2)        (  .5)
1980       45o.5          3.0            57.8           4.o             -            -               9.6              -          524.9        -         ( 524.9)        (2.1)
1981        46.6          3.0            11.8           4.7             -            290.9           9.6              -          366.6        -         ( 366.6)        (1.4)
1982        46.6          3.0            12.0           5.4             -          1,393.8           9.6              -        1,470.4        -         (1,470.4)       (5.8)
1983        46.6          3.0            12.4           5.9             -          6,120.6           9.6              -        6,198.1        -         (6,198.1)       (24.3)
1984        46.6          3.0           698.4           6.6             -          9,187.0          10.1              -        9,951.7        -         (9,951.7)       (39.0)
1985        55.14         1.9            83.7           7.3            668.2       4,314.7           9.7              -        5,140.9      6,630,0      1,489.1          5.8
1986       269.2           -             81.1          10.4            891 9       1,946.5           9.7            101.1      3,309.9      9,945.o      6,635.1         26.o
1987        19.6           -             81.1          lo.4            946.1       2,055.6           9.7            224.5      3,347.0     11,934.0      8,587.0         33.7
1988        19.6                         81.1          io.4            695.3       2,055.6           9.7              -        2,871.7     13,260.0    10,388.3          40.7
1989        19.6           -            332.9          lo.4          1,022.9       2,055.6           9.7              -        3,451.1     13,260.0      9,808.9         38.5
1990       31.6           -            103.1          lo.4          1,040.0       2,055.6           9.7              -        3,250.4     13,260.0   lo,oog.6           39.3
1991       217.0           -             81.1          lo.4          1,o48.6       2,055.6           9.7              -        3,422.4     13,260.0      9,837.6         38.6
1992        19.6           -            1144.9         10.4          1,057.1       2,055.6           9.7              -        3,297.3     13,856.0    10,558.7          41.4
1993       19.6           -             81.1          lo.4          1,067.2       2, 188.9          9.7                       3,376.9     14,188.0    10,811.1          42.4
1994        19.6                       1406.5          lo.4          1,075.7       2,201.0           9.7                       3,722.9     14,288.0    10,s6s.1          41.4
1995        26.9           -             81.1           lo.4         1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,428.2      14,354.0    10,925.8         42.8
1996       269.2           -            103.1           02 14        1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,692.5     14,361.0   lo,668.5           41.8
1997        19.6                         81.1          10.4          1,o87.0       2,213.1           9.7              -3,4209              14,361.0    10,940.1           42.9
1998        1976           -             81.1          10.4          1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,420.9     14,361o0   10,940.1           42.9
1999        19.6                        118.6          10.4          1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,458.4     14,361.0    10,902.6          42.8
2000        32.9           -             39.14          lo.4         1,087.0       2,213.1            9.7             -        3,392.5      14,361o0   10,968.5           43.0
2001       217.0           -30.5                       1o4           1,087,0       2,213.1           97                        3,567.7      14,361.0    10,793.3         42.3
2002        19.6           -             32.9          io.4          1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -3372.7              14,361.0    10,938.3           43.1
2003        19.6           .             30.5           o.14         1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,37023     14,361.0    10,990.7           43.1
20024       19.6                        I3.5            o.14         1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,370.3      14,361.0    10,990.7         43.1
2005        29.1           -             30.5           lo.4         1,087.0       2,213.1            9.7             -        3,379.8      14,361.0    10,981.2          43.1
2006       327.9           -             30.5          lo.4          1,087.0       2,213.1           9.7              -        3,678.6      14,361.o    lo,682.4          41.9
(D X
Difference as coapared with Project Cost Table (Annex 3) is due to the fact that the cost                                                                                       'o
table covers only the first six months of the year.                                                                                                                            »
/  It is assumed that the program's share of local consumption would have to be imported
without the Project.
July 12, 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The internal rate of return of the entire Mangoro afforestation
program is estimated at 13% over 33 years. Quantifiable benefits and costs
stemming from the program are presented in Tables 1 and 2; the data from which
these estimates were derived are presented in Annexes 3, 7 and 8. Basic
assumptions used in the analysis includet
(a) Economic life of the Project was assumed to be 33 years.
(b) Planting expenditures for the pre-Project period (25,000 ha)
were treated as sunk cost.  Maintenance of these plantations
was, however, included.
(c) The opportunity cost of earlier plantations was considered
to be zero.
(d) The adjusted weighted average mill net price used was Fmg
83,200/ADT (US$260/ADT).
(e) Foreign exchanged was valued upward by 25% to Fmg 320/US$
(the rate used for the Project was Fmg 255/US$) to more
accurately reflect the value of foreign exchange to
Madagascar.
(f)  The cost stream includes all economic cost stemming from
the program (investment and operational cost including
maintenance) and a 10% physical contingency allowance was
included on the cost of buildings, service roads, equipment
and a 5% allowance on the investment in the pulp mill.
(g) Unskilled labor was shadow priced at 75% of the current
wage rate.
(h) Taxes are not included in the calculation.
2.        The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in some of the
basic parameters is illustrated below:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Internal Rate
Assumption                                                       of Return
The Basic Run                                                  13
(a)  Foreign exchange valued at Fmg 255/US$                    il
(b)  Foreign exchange valued at Fmg 255/US$; labor not
shadow priced.                                            10
(c)  10% increase in cost.                                     il
(d)  10% reduction in benefits.                                10
(e)  10% increase in cost and 10% reduction in benefits.    8
(f)  10% increase in benefits.                                 15
(g)  One-year delay in benefits.                               10
(h)  The basic run including sunk cost.                        12
October 10, 1974



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO 1FOESTRY PROJECT
Cost in the Econn ec Analysis
(Ftg million)
Pulp M111
Maintenance                 Firebreaks,                     Investment 3        Overhead
of Pre-       Roads       Maintenance      Iogging            and           Administration    Wood
/    Project        & Road      &Fire            and Log        Operating          Workuhop        Purchase       Physical         Total
Year       Plantations-J    Plant.       aintenanceJ   Control               ort        Cost              Research      Antairabe     Contingency/         Cost
1974           136.8        12.8            101.1         3.1             -                _               56.6             -             18.1              328.5
1975          1,055.4       40.1            309.3        13.0             -                -               170.9            -            107.1            1,695.8
1976           197.2        40.1             69.1        17.8             -                -               168.2            -              -                492.4
1977            196.6       40.1             70.2        23.1             -                -               165.0            -              -                495.0
1978           196.0        40.1             74.1        30.6             -                -               167.6            -              -                508.4
1979           212.9        40.1            118.2        35.1             -                -               162.3            -              8.6              577.2
1980           793.9        40.1            203.6        44.4             -                -               152.3            -             72.7            1,307.0
1981           168.4        40.1             76.7        50.6             -                522.6           162.2            -             26.1            1,046.7
1982           168.4        40.1             79.1        56.6             -              2,440.1           154.8            -            122.0            3,061.1
1983           168.4        40.1             81.4        62.4             -             13,395.9           162.2            -            669.8           14,580.2
1984           168.4        40.1          1,156.9        68.5             -             18,019.9           148.5            -            901.0           20,503.3
1985            186.1       26.5            286.2        74.4          1,158.9           8,638.9           115.9            -            242.2           10,729.1
1986            400.3        -              275.3        97.5          1,592.0            4,453.5           88.2          399.2            40.2           7,346.2
1987            87.0         -              275.3        97.5          1,715.0            4,630.1           88.2          887.5           10.1            7,790.7
1988            87.0         -              275.3        97.5          1,506.6            4,530.7           88.2            -             10.1            6,595.4
1389             87.0        -              670.1        97.5          2.061.7            4,530.7           88.2            -              ic.            7"*.e
1990            127.4        -            1,110.3        97.5          2,098.5            4,530.7           88.2            -              14.1           8,o66.7
1991            334.7         -             275.3         97.5         2,119.5            4,530.7           88.2            -              33.9           7,479.8
1992             87.0        -              375.2        97.5          2,140.4            4,674.9           88.2            -              10.1           7,473.3
1993             87.0        -              275.3         97.5          2,160.6           4,796.5           88.2            -              10.1           7,515.2
1994            87.0          -             786.1         97.5          2,181.5           4,872.4           88.2            -              10.1           8,122.8
1995            112.0         -             275.3         97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2            -              12.6           7,753.1
1996            400.3         -             202.7         97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2            -              40.2           7,996.4
1997             87.0         -             275.3         97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2            -              10.1           7,725.6
1998            87.0          -             275.3        97.5           2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2            -              10.1           7,725.6
1999             87.0         -              333.8        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             10.1           7,784.1
20C0            132.2         -              113.6        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             14.6           7,613.6
2001            334.7         -              102.4        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             33.9           7,824.2
2002             87.0         -              105.9        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             10.1           7,556.2
2003             87.0         -              102.4        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             10.1            7,552.7
2004             87.o         -              102.4        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             10.1            7,472.7
2005            119.6         -              102.4        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             14.6            7,589.8
2006            459.6         -              102.4        97.5          2,207.3           4,960.2           88.2             -             45.8            7,961.0
J Including building and bousing, equipment, survey and technical support, nurseries, soil preparation, fertilization, planting
and replanting and weeding.                                                                     - 
Service roads, plantations roads and bridges, logging roads and maintenance of roads and buildings.
S  Net of interest.                                                                                                                                                 0
10% on roads, buildings, equipment and 5% on Pulp Mill investments (5% are already included in Pulp Mil1l's investment).                                          O
July 10, 19714



ANNX 10
Table 2
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FOREÏSTRY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return r
(Fmg million)
Project         Total         Incremental          Incremental
Year          Costa          Benefî.ts           Net Benefits
197>4            â329              -                 (  329)
1975           1,696               -                 ( 1,696)
1976              492              _(   492)
1977              495              -(   495)
1978              508              -                 (  508)
1979              577              -                 (   577)
1980           1,307                                 ( 1,307)
1981           1,047                                 ( 1,047)
1982            3,061                                ( 3,061)
1983          14,580                                 (14,580)
1984           20,503              -                 (20,503)
1985          10,729             8,320               ( 2,409)
1986            7,346          12,480                  5,134
1987            7,791          14,976                  7,185
1988            6,595          16,640                 10,045
1989            7,546          16,6>40                 9,094
1990            8,067          16,640                  8,573
1991            7,>480         16,640                  9,160
1992            7,473          17,380                  9,907
1993            7,515          17,805                 10,290
1994            8,123          17,930                  9,807
1995            7,753          18,013                 10,260
1996            7,996          18,02L                 10,025
1997            7,726          18,021                 10,295
1998            7,726          18,021                 10,295
1999            7,784          18,021                 10,237
2000           7,614           18,021                 10,407
2001           7,82>4          18,02'1                10,197
2002           7,556           18,021                 10,465
2003           7,553           18,021                 l,0468
2004            7,473          18,021                 10,548
2005           7,590           18,021                 10,431
2006           7,961           18,021                 10,060
Internal Rate of Return   12.7 over 33 years
1/ Foreign exchange shadow priced at Fmg 320/US$ with labor
cost at 100%.
July 15, 1974



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
1/                                 1/
DIRECTOR GENERAL                        Forest,v Ad/,so
_                                                                                                                     I -  -  -  1:1     2/
|  Sumey &  I  I   I  1/                                                 ]         1/       -X       Electrical Eng.
Survey&
Disease             Plantation Direntor                                                                Finance Director                  s                                                  Engineering
Control                                                                                                                                                                                       Di|ector                                    2/
INrnnp Eng.
NOR1IH DIVISION                 Fo,nst Oncnet                   Fre Control                     Aconat                        okhp  So                                                     NORTH DIVISION
|VDeputy Ferest                    Dn-nîopn{ent                     -
CENTRAL DIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                       DIVISION...eIemomum..,oeam.m..u.....,,..
N~ORTH~It~5                   * 111           l1111IIIuaImIImIIIUETA DIVISION
SOUTH DIVISION                                                                               NORTHIIIuuIIIoIIIIutumIIuIIIIIeIIIuIuu1~~.~  D  eeeeoemuoueVo.o.eeoueemuSIoomueommomeuuoomeoeeeoou   SOUTH DIVISION
1/ Offie in Moarananga
2  Stationcd n the Centr.1 D_iigan
Wvorîd Bank-9134






MADAGASCAR                                                               ---  ,jvre,O4os
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECTPl,w --.
A-,   -P1     ro. ns      s ci     SessP
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   9~~~~s sRe P s.d sl-. ,                                                                     i   B AA AA R
AI        19-7              3,209
A9         1971- 72         3,900
7s4        197 -73          9,8O0              lT
55    -95274          95
TOs,g<  j555      555905   O  Ot             ~            5<      --             .l>
79 s-ss11DAL
~ ~O H I IA L A   sMA NDIALAZAs- 
'2                                                                      MANDIALAZA~~~~ANILNAOB
.-........
s-'
-< Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/----   
I                                                                                                                     -          MAROVOAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






4t 4'4                                 4'g                                    4a-                                    'Cr          MAY  1974
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                       Diego Sucrez
MANGORO FORESTRY  PROJECT                                                                                                             +
I`NE  PLANTATIONS                                                                                  NOSSI-BE                       b  bibe
Ei -  Mangoro Project Area                                                                                       +                 +
Hlaut Onive                                                                                      Hel-ville         rO                  >4"Voher
d    E13  Antsirabe                                        'f                                                           Ambora  t
Motsiatra                                          L                                                           3'       $
ExISTING RoADS                                                                                              /         \                                                14
- Bituminous surfaced roads                                                                           /
Ai-A     l weather rocadsj                                                                                                  elno                  )
------ Non permanent roads
Railroods                                                                                Antisohihy                                            lAntaloho
>4'   All weother airports                                                                                                    --  +---
--   ---Rivers                                                                                  5e/r                      y'                 Morocerserr\
gr  r e  -   MILES                                Majunga >                Port Be e               t,n
50             15 1iOEÉ50    20m 250                                                                          -rr43 %     XMandrisoro       \
80010100o° v~-~~    Morovoay    1-           SMop,kony                                    Morrbnonark.16
0 
'                 ~~~~~Amboto° 0                      0,      
jW    ç  Besaioomhy                          KM 380.2         -4 3g
W                                     |~~~~~~~~~~~ Moet rea,ro                       Bomrokely S   sororonarro         Soorrerno-aIvorgo7b
'          4                                               l~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~Andtrrry 3 |  Andiorolno  5ro05°   
dr-Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
\o      ° l3 'Andrrorro                     4Fenerive
F     Maintironadl                                                      +9  MANGORO         5   /  AmbavondnozakMarrok tr
,  Ci G n n e /                   \ ~~MorTSrr                                              o w               f                            /0nrdi      a
MoirrrrrirorroKM 165-                                                           V`on         Abotordr-eko 
MAVGORO                                                                    t
Anrorohe Marond/o   APEA                                   ( /oa d  Tamotave
Arjozor \  r sFanoarian
A",.                              rick evi
Tsiroanomandidy              d3    0                        P nt            n/ c / n
a n       o           < n e                          Fa9°aka          dros ronja          <.     e
y4ooorr t-dr                                                       Moro                                                     22mogo
O -                                  Bo   u                          Pu-3zob  Ios  FJ oen           \ 6rIc~ /         M oukrbe     Vtrrer
dsrrrtrh      Ao ru    'be o                             Va
c  Bon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                             e0t
FW~~~~~~~~~~~~ )                                               S      anta          h rt/I  1//Vuae               Mbrundrr ieo  v       o ce         n            22'm. o o
Murooovo  Mnche            olo-b-ndy
...doc     Monnjary
<  9.i   (          >                               j                            r~~~~~~~~~~         ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~Farafangana  imply endoruerrrr, or accrptrorce hy rhe
Fianci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrdiadodo /iee
W~~~~~~. b                                               0                Btca° /vrdtémittlce
g   TulEarO  +   \   ongok h    B             O h(Vorgoindrorro
ay -ongy-ku-Sd
SS!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fign -MI \- Beyl th,
Tule                                            5Abo be             Fort Daphn`
,':  _:  . MAÀ AGASCAR
41',.                                 44'                                   46S                                    a



