CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1065 MAG
Loan Agreement
(Mangoro Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 23, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1065 MAG
Loan Agreement
(Mangoro Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DA''ED DECEMBER 23, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 19 /4, between MALAGASY REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called
the Development Credit Agrtement) the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to six million seven hundred
and fifty thousand dollars ($6,750,600);
(C)   The Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that
the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be
disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01(11) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:


﻿4
"11. The term 'Project' means the project or program for which the
Loan is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank,
the Association and the Borrower."
(b)   Section 6.02(c) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(c) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement (as such
term is defined in the Loan Agreement)."
(c)   Section 7.01(e) is amended to read as follows:
"(e) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Development
Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement), and
such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank or the Association to the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the purpose of the Project,
as such agreement may be armended from time to time; and such term includes
the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules
to the Development Credit Agreement:
(b)   "Credit" means the credit provided for in the Development Credit
Agreement;
(c)   "Credit Account" means the account established pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means that area of Madagascar's Mangoro Valley which
is described in the Borrower's Arrdte' No. 0701/MDR/FOR dated February 28,
1974 and in the map attached thereto-


﻿5
(e)   "FANALAMANGA"       means the    company   entrusted  with  the
implementation of the Project, a Socite d'Economie Mixte of the Borrower, to
be established, as provided by Section 3.02 of this Agreement, pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 67-007 of June 28, 1967 and includes any successor thereto:
and
(f)   "Plant" means the wood pulpmill which the Borrower expects will
be constructed and operated in the Mangoro Valley.
ARTICLE fI
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($6,750,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree. to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of Qoods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan. shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I I) per annum on the principal
arnount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8(') per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from tine to time.


﻿6
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project through FANALAMANGA, with the assistance of the Directorate of
Forestry of its Ministry of Rural Development, and Parts D, F and G of the Project
through the appropriate directorates of said Ministry, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finarn,cial, engineering
and silvicultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to FANALAMANGA            as a
contribution to its equity capital (i) the Borrower's participation in money and
kind to the cost of the Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, (ii) the existing
plantations, facilities and equipment pertaining to the Project, and (iii) an amount
equivalent to such proceeds of the Loan as the Borrower shall withdraw from
the Loan Account for the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the obligations of the
Borrower under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted expenditures estimated by
FANALAMANGA to be required for its respective Parts of the Project during each
year shall promptly be made available to FANALAMANGA in its bank or postal
account or in its account at the Borrower's Trsor, all established for that purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
FANALAMANGA under its laws and regulations governing Societes c'Economie
Mixte, for the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall employ a Directeur Gdneral of FANALAMANGA,
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, during the execution of the Project, sell, transfer or otherwise


﻿7
dispose of any shares in FANALAMANGA or of any interest therein from time
to time held by it.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of Parts E
and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In carrying out the construction of service roads and
prefabricated houses included in Parts C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and cause FANALAMANGA to set
up and maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine th goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to ensure
that the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard


﻿8
to ecological and environmental factors, and, in particular, the Borrower shall
monitor water quality and flow of the Mangoro River in order to avoid any adverse
ecological effects resulting from the construction of the Plant.
(b)   The Borrower shall inform   the Bank on arrangements and decisions
the Borrower intends to take regarding the financing and construction of t': Plant.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes that it will draw the final boundaries
in the Project Area in agreement and under appropriate arrangements with the
villagers now living in said area.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no ,ost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower


﻿9
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause FANALAMANGA           to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of FANALAMANGA.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause FANALAMANGA to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested: and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of FANALAMANGA and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from   time to time reasonably requesI.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause FANALAMANGA to:
(a)   at all times conduct its operations under experienced and competent
management, in accordance with sound financial, commercial and silvicultural
practices and with the assistance of adequate, competent and experienued staff;
(b)   employ, not later than seven months after the date of this Agreement
or within such other period as shall be agreed with the Bank, a plantation director.,
a financial director, a forestry expert, and a workshop engineer whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   at all times operate, renew, repair and maintain its facilities, equipment
and machinery necessary or useful for the carrying out of the part of the Project
for which it is responsible, in accordance with appropriate management practices;


﻿10
(d)   at all times to take all such action as shall be necessary on its part
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges which are necessary
or useful for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under the Project; and
(e)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all documents and
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the value of the
assets appraised in accordance with the Borrowers regulations and transferred by
the Borrower to FANALAMANGA.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the legisla.ion  or regulations of the Borrower relating to the
establishment, powers, organization or responsibilities of FANALAMANGA shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of FANALAMANGA to carry out
its part of the Project.
(b)   the Arrte No. 0701/MDR/FOR dated February 28, 1974 shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿11
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement shall have been fulfilled subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement;
(b)   FANALAMANGA shall have been established, as provided under
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement; and
(c)   the Directeur G6neral of FANALAMANGA shall have been appointed,
as provided in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the Gen   ' Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that FANALAMANGA
has been duly and validly established pursuant to the legislation and regulations
of the Borrower.
Section 6.03. The date March 24, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Coinditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specifi,:d for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist re de l'Economie et
des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Cable address:
MINECOFIN
Tananarive


﻿12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s/ Henri Raharijaona
Authorized Representatie
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's afforestation program in the Project
Area for the establishment of about 100,000 ha of pine plantations. The Project
consists of the following:
A.    Afforestation of 35,000 ha of pine plantations, icluding surveying of the
area to be planted, land preparation, establishment of nurseries, fertilization,
planting, weeding and disease control.
B.    Construction of firebreaks, institution of a comprehensive system    of
maintenance and of fire prevention and control for the plantations.
C.    Construction and maintenance of service and plantation roads.
D.    Construction of buildings for Proiect headquarters and three divisional
headquarters.
E.    Research, training and preparation of a second-phase project.
F.    Prep-rtion of agricultural projects.
G.    Agro-pastural development in the Project Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1985                                          120,000
November 15, 1985                                     125,000
May 15, 1986                                          130,000
November 15, 1986                                     135,000
May 15, 1987                                          140,000
November 15, 1987                                     145,000
May 15, 1988                                          150,000
November 15, 1988                                     160,000
May 15, 1989                                          165,000
November 15, 1989                                     170,000
May 15, 1990                                          180,000
November 15, 1990                                     185,000
May 15, 1991                                          195,000
November 15, 1991                                     200,000
May 15, 1992                                          210,000
November 15, 1992                                    215,000
May 15, 1993                                          225,000
November 15, 1993                                     235,000
May 15, 1994                                          245,000
November 15, 1994                                     255,000
May 15, 1995                                          265,000
November 15, 1995                                     275,000
May 15, 1996                                          285,000
November 15, 1996                                     295,000
May 15, 1997                                          310,000
November 15, 1997                                     320,000
May 15, 1998                                          335,000
November 15, 1998                                     345,000
May 15, 1999                                          360,000
November 15, 1999                                     375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 3/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   3%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         4-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                               7-1/2%
More than twenty-three
years before maturity                             8%


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Bidders for the works included in Parts C and D of the Project (service
roads and prefabricated houses) shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of
the Guidelines;
(b)   Similar contracts for equipment, vehicles and fertilizer shall be grouped
to the: extent that said procedure does not adversely affect the implementation
of the Project.
3.    Contracts for civil works, equipment, vehicles and fertilizer estimated to cost
less than $30,000 shall be let under the Borrower's regular procurement procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿17
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Madagascar if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Madagascar equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Madagascar.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Con tractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference


﻿18
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference.
The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Procurement Without Contracting
The civil works for the infrastructure, other than construction of service
roads and prefabricated houses, and the plantations shall be carried out tinder force
account by the Directorate of Forestry.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
I.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and,
where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1 above
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant foi prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment, vehicles and fertilizer
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more:


﻿19
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.


