CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 525 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mangoro Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 23, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 525 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mangoro Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 23, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1974, between MALAGASY REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Loan Agreement the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to six million seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($6,750,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
*        that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or program for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank,
the Association and the Borrower."
(b)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted for:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
and the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement (as such
term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement)."
(c)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement or
the Loan Agreement (as such term is defined in the Development Credit
Agreement), and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association or the Bank to the
Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account established pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)   the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($6,750,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1; ) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in seni-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1984, and ending May 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1') of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2N) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Statee of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Article III and Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Loan Agreement
and Schedule I and 3 thereto are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however,
that (i) all reference to the Bank in such Article, Sections or Schedules or in any
of them shall be deemed to be references to the Association, and (ii) all references
to the Loan in such Article, Sections or Schedules or in any of them shall be
deemed to be references to the Credit.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all action taken, including
approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to the Articles of the Loan Agreement
enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, or of Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of
both the Bank and the Association; and all information furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of such Articles, shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the pUrpOSCS of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the additional events specified in Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that: (i) all references to the Bank in
su2h Section shall be deemed to be references to the Association; and (ii) so long
as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement shall remain
outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken, including approvals given by the Bank
pursuant to such Section, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and
on behalf of both the Bank and the Association.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the additional events specified in Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that: (i) all references to the Bank in
such Section shall be deemed to be references to the Association; and (ii) so long
as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement shall remain
outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken, including approval given by the Bank


﻿7
pursuant to such Sectioi, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and
on behalf of both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. (a) The following events are specified as additional conditions
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the conditions precedent
to the effectiveness, except the condition under paragraph (a) of Section 6.01,
of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
(b)   All references to the Bank in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement
shall be deemed references to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date March 24, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.04 of the Loan Agreement incorporated by reference in Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et
des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic


﻿8
Cable address:
MINECOFIN
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s/ Henri Raharijaona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works by                  2,100,000         75%
contractors
(2)  Civil works by                  6,500,000         75%
force account
and administra-
tive cost
(3)  Vehicles and equip-             2,000,000          100% of foreign
ment                                              expenditures or
75% of local ex-
penditures
(4)  Fertilizer                       900,000           100% of foreign
expenditures or
75% of local ex-
penditures
(5)  Consultants'                     700,000           100% of foreign
services for                                      expenditures and
research and                                      75% of local ex-
training and                                      penditures
preparation
of a second-
phase project


﻿10
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6)   Consultants'                     500,000           100% of foreign
services for                                       expenditures and
the prepara-                                       75% of local ex-
tion of agricul-                                   penditures
tural projects
(7)   Agro-pastural                    100,000           100% of foreign
development                                        expenditures
in the Project                                     and 75% of local
Area                                               expenditures
(8)   Unallocated                      700,000
TOTAL         13,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
S


﻿11
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I abuve, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
expenditures incurred after November 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of S100,000.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has rea,onably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated ro any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


