Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12578
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2577-IND)
DECEMBER 2, 1993
MI CROGRA;PIFA ICS      
Report No:         1257YE 
Type, PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region
I This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed wihout World Bank authrzaon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENCE
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal US$1 - Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million - US$909
Annual Average Values
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
RpOUM$      909   1026  1111  1283  1644  1686  17?0  1843  1950  2030
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MDEASURES
1 meter (m)                         -  39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                    m 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                 -  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m2)                  -  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
I hectare (ha)                      -  10,000 square meters (m:2 or 2.47 acres)
1 square kilometer (km2)            -  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter                             -  0.26 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CFS               - Container Freight Station
DGLC              - Directorate General Land Communications
DGSC              - Directorate General Sea Communications
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES            - Presidential Decree
MSDP              - Maritime Sector Development Programs
MOC               - Ministry of Communications
PERUMPEL          - Public Port Corporation
SAR               -  Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wshington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Oeneral
Operations Evaluation
December 2, 1993
MMORANM  TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia
National Ports Develogment Proiect (Loan 2577-IND)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Indonesia -- National
Ports Development Project (Loan 2577-IND)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. Part II contains the Borrower's comments.
The Loan (US$110 million of June 1985) was to contribute to
infrastructural rehabilitation and managerial improvements in selected major
port.; to strengthen a recently established public port corporation; and to
assist the Ministry of Communications both in regulatory and policy reforms in
the maritime sector and in monitoring performance.   A drastically changed
sectoral environment led to a reduction cf the project scope (but to no
modification of objectives) in May 1986. This brought total project cost down
(from US$186.5 million to US$145.1 million) which, in turn,, brought loan
disbursements down to US$76.9 million.   The balance (US$34.1 million) wes
canceled.
The project was completed in early 1993, with a delay of about six
months. All objectives were largely achieved and four of the five ports included
in the project have shown satisfactory progress in terms of ship calls, cargo
throughput and operational performance. The financial status of the public port
corporation has markedly improved since the baginning of the project. Changes
in project scope and unreliability of data did not allow re-estimation of the
project's economic rate of return (32% at appraisal).   This is the only
shortcoming of the comprehensive PCR which describes in detail project
preparation, implementation and results. Pointing at the difficulties inherent
in institution-building, the PCR emphasizes the need for adequate supervision,
notes the important contributions made by Bank missions, and suggests that more
needs to be done in the areas of data gathering and regular reporting. Other
areas deserving attention include speedier appraisal, review of procurement
procedures, coordination of port activities with local government agencies,
improvement  of equipment availability, and clarification of private-public
sector relationships in future efforts to improve port infrastructure and
equipment. Overall the project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as
likely and its institutional impact as substantial.
The project may be audited.
8doos4 ntas a restricted distributioa and may be used by rocipieats only In td perfo-S"^^ of
tnhsir official duties. Its contents may not otbrwise be disclosed without world Isak authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2577-IND)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ...........*Z.... 
Evaluation SuaTmry.....         ........        ...........................      ii
I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.........                           1
Section 1.   Project Identity.e.t ....                                    1
Section 2.   Project Background... .............................         I,
Section 3.   Project Objectives and Description...........                2
Section 4.   Project Design and Organization.**#*.***.*.**.,             3
Section 5.   Project Implementation ...........................           4
.ection 6.   Project Resulte....                                          5
Section 7.   Project Sustainability..........                             8
Section 8.   Bank Performance....*..,* ...                                9
Section 9.   Borrower Pe rco r m a n c e                                 10
Section 10.  Reaot i o n s h i p                                         12
Section 11.  Project Documentation and Da                t      a        12
Section 12.  Consulting S      e      r    v     i    c    e     s       13
II.    'ROJECT REVIEW FROM TPE BORROWER'S PERPSPEC" EV .........*c
III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............. 44444*......           -      -*-***- - ...    56
Table 1.    Related Bank Loans ............................ e.    56
Table 2.    Loan Disbursement.44...4........ ..  .. . . .... .           57
Table 3.    Project Timetablem.. ................................ 5.
Table 4.(i) Project Costs Summary .................*-      ***........    59
(ii) Summary of Project  Fianing ancing.........    60
(iii) Project Soope                                               61
Table 5.    Use of Staff Resources ............65
Table 6.(i) Port Traffic       Data                                      66
(ii) Port Efficiency ldicators.ndicat....      o      rs...........  70
(iii) PP-II: Consolidated income Statement-Summary9......9    72
(iv) PP-II:  Consolidated Balance Sheet - Summary9......4    75
(v) PP-II: Sources and Uses of Funds- Summary..ma.ry*..         76
Table 7     Project Financed TA         .......                          7?
ANNEXE
Annex 1.    Compliance with Loan Covenants.*..*....                      78
This document has a rstricted distibution and may be used by reipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL pQRTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan No. 2577-INDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
£Ela
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Ports
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2577-IND in the amount of
US$111.0 mlllion was approved on June 18, 1985. The loan was closed on December
31, 1992, 6 months behind schedule. It was 69.3% disbursed and the balance of
US$34.1 million was canceled in two stages: first an amount of USS 28.3 million
was canceled in October 1989 following the reduction in the project scope and
finally, following the last disbursement on May 30, 1993 the balance
US$5.8 million was canceled.   The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division in Department 3 of East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The revised guidelines for PCR
preparation dated June 1989 have been followed insofar as possible.
Preparation of this PCR was discussed with the staff of GOl during
the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in February 1993 at which
time the Borrower's evaluation was initiated. A copy of Part I and III was sent
to GOl in May 1993 for review and the Borrower's comments and part II of the PCR
was prepared by the Borrower. This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and the Project Agreements, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
INDONESI
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan No. 2577-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
The project was designed to contribute to urgently needed port
facility optimization and rehabilitation in order to raise port productivity and
improve management capability in selected major porls (paras 3.1-3.2).  The
project's investments were focussed on the 5 major ports in Perumpel-I1 zone of
influence covering parts of West Java, West Kalimantan and South East Sumatra
where a large share of the country's international sea trade is handled. The
institutional objectives included strengthening the recently established (public
port corporation) Perumpel-II in line with sound managettal, financial and
operational practices and to enable the Ministry of Communications So carry out
required regulatory and policy reforms in the maritime sector and to effectively
monitor the performance of the industry.
Implementation Experience
The project experienced moderate delays in the launching phase
immediately following the loan effectiveness in October 1985 (para 5.1). The
delays were primarily attributable to lengthy procurement procedures typical to
most public works projects in Indonesia (para. 9.1), and inadequately staffed
project coordination function. A changed sector environment was behind the
decision to reduce the scope of the project in May 1986. Important factors which
influenced the decision to revise the scope of the project were (a) the reduction
in the costs of civil works and other local costs which resulted from the
devaluation of the Rupiah which took place in 1986; (b) a keener price
competition for contracts from among a larger than expected number of contracting
firms; and (c) the predicted improvements in sea trade management, shipping
services, and port operations induced by the implementation of presidential
decree (Inpres) 4/1985 (para 9.1). During the on-going implementation, Perumpel-
II displayed a remarkable performance in managing a modified implementation
schedule relatively smoothly till the completion of the project in late 1992.
Results
The project rehabilitated general cargo facilities and provided
urgently needed basic container handling facilities in the four ports and
expanded container terminal facilities at the port of Tanjung Priok (paras 6.1-
6.2). The project's institutional goals were achieved substantially in that,
through the technical assistance, it provided improvement in the corporation's
management and operations practices and contributed to the planning, policy
analysis, and regulatory reforms in the Ministry of Communications.   The
improvement in the management of PP-II is underscored by the evidence that it has
become a much stronger institution after successfully managing a large investment
program through difficult construction phases.   Although key port operating
indicators such as ship-waiting and ship-service times did not register
significant reductions during the project period (Table 6(ii), the higher than



- iii -
expected cargo growth in traffic at tho ports in general and especially in
containerized traffic at Tanjung Priok would mean that without this project the
increased traffic would have caused longer ship waiting times which could have
triggered a costly imposition of surcharges by vessel owners. In addition, there
were remark8ble improvements in the finances of the corporation enabling it to
make a reasonable contribution to project financing using its internally
generated funds (para 6.4).
Sustainabilitv
The pro4ect has put new and improved port facilities at the disposal
of the management of Perumpel-Il thereby permitting larger port throughput. The
challenge for th4 port corporation is its ability in effectively operating such
facilities at their full potential.   Perumpel-II now has adequate financial
resources to maintain and operate port facilities efficiently, and with the
extensive training provided under this project the management of Perumpel-II is
in a good position to take on the challenges of providing adequate port services
at reasonable costs to the users.
Findings and Lessons Learned
1.          The Bank used large amount of resources in time and personnel in the
preparation of this project; some of which is attributable to the eventually
successful policy dialogue. The combination of good tim'ig for the project and
accompanying policy reform were responsible for the project achievements
(para. 8.5).
2.          Inadequate Bank supervision during the initial implementation period
was partly responsible for the delays that occurred (para. 8.3). Intensive Bank
supervision is critical during the first year of project Lmplementation
especially in order to minimize potential delays (para 8.6).
3.          The Borrower's procurement procedures which differed in some respects
from Bank guidelines were partly responsible for the delays incurred in obtaining
approvals for bid documents (para 5.1). Standardization of bid documents and
procurement procedures as recently agreed between the Bank and the Borrower could
obviate such delays.
4.          The Borrower's promulgation of regulatory reforms under Inpres 4/1985
accelerated port efficiency improvements, which might otherwise have been harder
to achieve with the project alone (para 9.1). The Borrower's regulatory decision
was timely and demonstrated that effective regulatory reforms can enhance
operational efficiency even without making large investments (para 9.5).
5.          The combination of the regulatory changes and the physical impact of
the project have augured well for the finances of Perumpel-II; it is now in a
stronger financial position than five years ago and likely to achieve its
objective of attaining self-financing of port operations. With sustained efforts
in improving operational efficiency central government transfers for capital
investments may no longer be necessary for financing future investments in
Perumpel-II ports (para 6.4).



- iv -
6.          Because of the Borrowe:'s traditionally weak institutions, the
supervision of technical assistance requires more Bank resources than are often
anticipated especially if the TA is to be adequately responsive to evolving needs
of the Borrower.   _-



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan No. 2577-IND)
Project Comgletion Renort
1.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTI'VE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name:           National Ports Development Project
Loan No.:               2577-IND
RVP Unit:               East Asia and Pacific
Country:                Indonesia
Sector:                 Ports & Shipping
Subsector:              Ports
Project Cities:         Jakarta, Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang, Pontianak
Loan Amount:            US$ 111.0 million
Disbursed:              US$ 76.9 million
Canceled:               US$ 34.1 million
2.    Proiect Background
2.1         The archipelagic characteristics of the country ensure that maritime
transport was and remains a key link in Indonesia's foreign and domestic trade.
In 1983, domestic seaborne trade had reached .0 million tons, after registering
an average annual growth rate of 8.4Z over the previous 5 years. During the same
period the volume of imported cargo channeled through Indonesian ports grew at
14.6 Z per annum, reaching 26.4 million tons of various commodities. Export
volumes which were dominated by crude oil remained relatively stable at slightly
above 100 million tons per annum.  The Government's export drive almed at
expansion of non-oil exports, called for increased productivity of the country's
port operations through modernization and investment of modern cargo handling
technology. There were more than 300 individual ports in Ittdonesia in 1983, some
45 of which had annual cargo throughput in excess of 200,000 tons. The most
important ports Tanjung Priok and Surabaya (Java), Belawan (Sumatra), and Ujung
Pandang (Sulawesi) had a combined throughput of 17 million tons and 8.7 million
tons respectively of international and domestic cargo. International cargo flow
grew at an annual average rate of 7.5S in the mid-70's, vhereas domestic cargo
increased at annual rates of 132 during the same period.
2.2         Almost all ports in Indonesia were established during the first
decade of this century.   The lay-outs of these ports and their facility
configurations were designed to suit the cargo handling arrangements of the
times, and except for Tanjung Priok, Surabaya, and Belawan, very few physical
adjustments had been made in the country's port system. The main problems which
impeded the performance of the maritime transport were compounded by but not
limited to physical in-efficienciess a complex maze of regulatory and Licensing
requirements in the shipping and port services constrained nrospects for improved
productivity. About 65Z of transport costs of inter-island trade were being
generated in ports. Because of slow loading/unloading, ships spent an inordinate
amount of time at ports causing poor fleet utilization and high sea transport
costs.



2.3         The majority of Indoneuia's ports was therefore not equipped for
introducing modern technology, low-cost cargo handling arrangements. Yet, the
need to facilitate urgently required cargo unitization implied necessary
adjustment in port lay-outs and facility configuration.  In many ports vital
installations like quays, road infrastructure, utilities and go-downs were badly
deteriorated. As a result cargo movement was slow, and a significant per:entage
was damaged in the process. Cargo handling equipment was often in poor state of
repair, port basins and access channels were only infrequently dredged leading
to limited throughput capacities. Water supply and bunker facilities in ports
were in many cases inadequate, contributing to ship waiting time.
2.4         Most land-side management of cargo in ports was dissipated among
various agencies, antd the existence of labor unions precluded incentives for
improving productivity  of  labor.    Availability  of  several  services  was
uncoc.-dinated and time consuming customs inspection practices added to ship
waiting and cargo handling times.
2.4         In its basic approach to sector reforms, formulated under a Bank
assisted Maritime Sector Development Program (MSDP), GOI decided to commercialize
many functions in the maritime system, and to increase private sector
participation. It reorganized the management of the country's port system in May
1983 into four public corporations called Perumpels, head-quartered at four
gateway ports (Belawan, Tanjung Priok, Surabaya, and Ujung Pandang), each with
a defined zone of influence and responsibility for efficient operation and
management of all major ports in such zones.  The decree establishing them,
mandated the Perumpels to be managed according to commercial principles, and to
strive for financial self-sufficiency.
2.5         In the early 1980's MOC commissioned the preparation of plans for
improving the five (5) major ports in Perumpel-II (PP-II) zone of
influence,I(Tanjung Priok, Teluk Bayur, Palembang, Panjang, and Pontianak) to
enable them to handle projected cargo traffic increases. PP-II ports accounted
for about 10Z of the total cargo handled in 1983. The early findings of the port
optimization studies determined that there was considerable unutilized capacity
under existing installations which if upgraded along with appropriate
modifications in port operations and management could improve port efficiency.
3.    Project Obiectives and Descriptions
3.1         The project was the first lending operation that emerged from the
GQI-Bank dialogue addressing the sectorwide maritime policy reform. The project
aimed at system improvement by concentrating on raising the level of port
productivity and management competence and to arran8e for facility rehabilitation
and modernization in ports. The project's focus was primarily on ports in P-Il
and all essential arrangements for overall effective port management and
efficient operations.  The specific project objectives were:   (a) to help
establish PP-I1 in line with sound managerial, technical and financial standards;
(b) to improve operations and management in all ports within the P-II zone; (c)
to provide for the expansion and upgrading needs in the key ports in the
Perumpel-II zone; (d) to help DGSC arrange for required organization and



procedural changes in the sea trade administration; and (e) to meet the training
needs of Perumpel-I1 and sea communications staff.
3.2         The project was  aimed  at providing  urgently  needed  facility
rehabilitation and basic container handling facilities in the ports of Toluk
Bayur, Panjang, Palembang and Pontianak, and expanding the container terminal
facility in Tanjung Priok. The underlying goal of these measures was to ensure
that projected port traffic can be efficiently handled until the mid-1990s.
Proiect Cogonents
3.3         The project included rehabilitation of facilities, expansion of
container terminal, establishment of container handling facilities, and provision
of technical assistance services and training. The program for each of the P-II
individual ports is outlined in Table 4(iii).   The scope of the technical
assistance is shown in Table 7.
3.4         Training under the direction of DGSC and P-II was to be provided for
port personnel and staff of port service organizations primarily in support of
the project ports improvement schemes, but also for personnel from other regional
port authorities in coordination with the Netherlands' government assisted port
workers training program.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.1a        As part of its sector support strategy, the Bank helped GOI in
assessing maritime transport problems and issues. During the initial phases of
the project GOI and the Bank reached a consensus that the performance of the
maritime sector was primarily impeded by cumbersome regulations and inefficient
operations and management practices. Also the Bank held t'ne view that future
Bank operations should encompass all aspects of maritime transport. The approach
that was used in this project of addressing sector-wide problems was innovative
because earlier projects had narrower scopes of sector issues and succeeded in
improving the sector only in limited ways. Early findings of the studies carried
out under the Maritime Sector Development Program (MSDP) financed under three
previous Bank loans proved that low productivity was a key bottleneck in maritime
system performance. This realization of low productivity formed the conceptual
basis for the design of the project.  A decision was taken to address port
efficiency problems on a priority basis. Bank-financed consultants were hired
to define optimization measures for key ports and draw up plans and designs for
achieving specific improvements. From an institutional perspective, an essential
step in GOI's strategy for improving the performance of the sector was the
establishment in 1983 of the four Perums (para 2.4). GOI's intention was that
the Perums would develop, operate, and maintain the nation's ports in line with
sound technical, economic, and financial practices with management structures
distinct from the DGSC. The Bank had maintained that given the predicted start-
up problems and difficulties P-II management might face, their organizations and
rules of business needed to be clearly defined and supported by the project. The
institutional concept and design were considered appropriate and timely since the
ports in P-II zone incorporate the most important elements of the country's
maritime subsector and any improvement in them would have greater national
impact.



- 4 -
4.2         Under the Project Agreement, the management of P-II vas responsible
for all the physical comoonents in respect of all the five ports, port training
program and a technical assistance component related with the strengthening of
the managements of P-11 and other regional ports.  MOC, DGLC and DGSC were
responsible for the technical assistance studies for the maritime sector
monitoring and data management, strengthening of state transport corporations,
and river and land transport improvement, regulatory reforms and development of
MIS (Table 7).
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.1         The six month period immediately following the loan effectiveness in
October 1985 recorded no physical progress in project implementation. The delay
was largely attributable to a range of problems which are prevalent in the
construction industry in Indonesia including lengthy procurement procedures e.g.
prequalification, specifications and tender documents, and inadequately staffed
project coordination function. These vere likely predictable and should have
been reflected in the original implementation schedule. Ia 1986, GOI and the
Bank agreed to reduce the scope of the project, reducing or dropping some civil
works in the ports of Palembang, Panjang, and Teluk Bayur, and eliminating
equipment for these ports and the port of Pontimnak alltogether from the project
(table 4(iii)). Subsequent decisions, largely influenced by a rapid growth in
containerized traffic at the port of Tanjung Priok, expanded its list of
container handling equipment procured both under and outside the project. Among
the principal reasons given for the decision to reduce the project costs and
scope were: a) Bank's then on-going cost reduction efforts motivated by the
Indonesia's budgetary requirements at the time; b) expected improvements in port
operations due to the impact of Inpres 4f1985; and c) an early perception that
port traffic forecasts used in the SAR were overstated. The costs of the civil
works were further reduced by fortuitous circumstances in the country that
occurred at the time: Firsts a major devaluation of the Rupiah which took place
in early 1986 had the effect of lowering the Rupiah costs of the project.
Secondly, the bust following the pre-1986 boom in the construction industry
caused a large number of contractors competing fiercely for jobs and tendering
low bids for civil works substantially below SAR estimates. The combined effect
of the reduction in the scope of the civil works and equipment in the project and
the competition for works was responsible for the cancellation of nearly thirty
one percent of the Loan funds (US$ 28.31 million) in October 1989.
5.2         The technical assistance and training programs (table 7) were left
intact with the exception of the river transport study which was implemented
only partially. In fact later the technical assistance was expanded to include
preparation of the Highway Sector Loan I Project, feasibility studies for ports
of Pontianak and Panjang, O-D surveys for road and non-road traffic, additional
advisory services to MOC, an umbrella for evaluating proposals for private sector
involvement in ports, and a seminar for sector staff on environmental policies.
The technical assistance and training components implemented by PP-11 were
completed reasonably well on schedule. However, the technical assistance
implemented by the Ministry required inordinate amount of supervision inputs at
all stages of procurement and actual implementation.



-5-
5.3         Under the modified schedule implementation was subsequently put on
a fast track as Bank supervision intensified and by April 1991, except for Teluk
Bayur,  most  civil works,  equipment  procurement,  training,  and  technical
assistance components were substantially completed. Significant modifications
that had to be made to the original civil works program in the port of Teluk
Bayur due to poor soil conditions at berth sites caused a delay which
necessitated a loan closing date extension of six months from the original date
of June 30, 1992. The loan closing date was extended to December 31, 1992 to
allow the completion of works in Teluk Bayur which was achieved in November 1992.
6.    Proiect Results
Proiect Obiectives
6.1         Overall the project was successful in meeting its primary objectives.
Urgently needed facility rehabilitation and installation of basic container
handling facilities in the four ports was carried out and container terminal
facilities and equipment were expanded at Tanjung Priok. The project was timely
due to evident growth in traffic in the ports especially in the port of Tanjung
Priok which was handling an expanding volume of containerized exports with
limited  facilities  and  equipment.    In  addition,  the project  helped  in
strengthening PP-II management and operations, established sector planning and
information system and contributed to the policy analysis and regulatory reform
effort of the Ministry of Communications. Extensive training in several aspects
of port operations and management including post graduate programs was provided
to Perumpel personnel in-house and in selected overseas institutions.   The
training was satisfactory and completed on schedule.
Physical Results
6.2         The project was completed at a substantially reduced scope and cost
of US$145 million equivalent compared with the SAR estimate of US$186
millionttable 4(i)). A total of US$ 76.9 million out of the loan account was
utilized, and out of the undisbursed balance of US$ 34.1 million, sum of US$
28.31 million was canceled in October 1989, and the cancellation of the remaining
amount in the account is being processed. The key changes in the scope of the
project are shown in table 4(iii).   Among the important changes were the
elimination of equipment items for all the ports except Tanjung Priok where more
equipaent items for containerized cargo were added, and substantial reductions
in the scopes of civil works for individual ports. The principal reasons for the
reduction of the project costs are explained in para. 5. The physical targets
of the project were substantially achieved save for the modifications to the
original scope.  The scope of works in terms of port facility improvements
completed and equipment supplied under the project is also summarized in
Table 4(iii).
Financial Performance
6.3         The financial position of the corporation has steadily improved
during the project implementation phase and its performance surpassed appraisal
targets. At the individual ports level, ports of Tanjung Priok and Panjang,
which hawdle container traffic, have surpassed their respective covenanted target



- 6 -
working ratios. However, the three other ports failed to meet their targets
(Table 6(iii). Overall PP-II provided funds for about 13.2 percent of the total
investment in the ports from its operations (table 6(iv)).   The financial
performance of the corporation during the project period was influenced by a
number of operating parameters among which the most important were; (a) level
of port tariffs and frequency of their revisions; (b) the effect of cost control
through better management of operations implemented under the project; (c) the
level and composition of port cargo as well as ship traffic; (d) the variety and
level of services offered by the port corporation; and (e) the impact of project
financing in terms of acquired debt burden.
6.4         Since 1986 there was one tariff increase for major port services
which was implemented in August 1990 in the Port of Tanjung Priok. The tariff
increase was not immediately implemented in the other four ports during this
period which subscribed to the failure of such ports in meeting their respective
targets for operating results. However, the tariff increase at Tanjung Priok
(which accounts for 75-80 percent of PP-II's total revenue), the growth in the
container traffic there, and the positive impact of Inpres 4/1985 decisions, were
largely responsible for strengthening the finances of PP-Il.
6.5         Key financial indicators for PP-II and individual ports for the
period FY 87 through FY 92 are given in Table 6(iii). Corporation's revenues
grew but remained slightly lower than SAR estimates until 1989.  From 1990
onwards revenues substantially surpassed the SAR estimates and operating results
also did better than covenanted target ratios. The workint ratios declined from
a level of about 80Z in 1987 to about 462 in 1992 against a covenanted target of
802. The operating ratios declined from a high of 1032 in 1987 to 61.5S in 1992
compared with the SAR target of a high level of 982 in 1989 to 95.6X in 1992.
6.6         The effectiveness of the cost control measures and efficiency
improvements instituted are illustrated by a growth in revenue of about 20? in
1988 over the previous years' record, and a corresponding decline in operating
expenses by 5? in the same period. Overall in the period 1987-92 the growth in
revenues has out-performed that in expenses by a factor of 1.8. Consequently,
the corporation was able to maintain a healthy flow of cash from its operations.
However, PP-II was only able to attain a still low self-financing ratio of 13.2
percent of the overall investments of about US$254.8 million made during the
period. Excluding debt service and profit distributions, a self-financing ratio
of about 26 percent was nonetheless achievable if needed.   The debt burden
incurred under the subsidiary loan agreement was only about US$62 million
compared with the US$100.2 million approved originally, which leaves the PP-II
with a comfortable debt-equity ratio of 20180 (table 6(v)). The cashflow from
operations at about US$ 55 million in 1992, is more than adequate to cover the
debt service resulting from the new and old loans.
6.7         Although the financial performance of the corporation as a whole was
satisfactory, the performance of individual ports was markedly different. The
port of Tanjung Priok, the largest and through which almost all the container
traffic is handled, contributes the largest share of PP-II revenues and profits.
Except for Panjang, which handled a small number of container traffic, the other
three project ports failed to achieve the covenanted as well as the SAR financial
targets. It should be noted that the three ports do not yet handle containerized



-7-
traffic which can be handled more efficiently than conventional cargo with the
use of appropriate facilities.   This may partly explain the poor financial
performance of these ports.
Economic Re-evaluation
6.8         At appraisal, measurable economic benefits of the project were
expected to result from reductions in ship-waiting and ship-service times at
berth. It was assumed that with investment in additional facilities and through
increased containerization and improved productivity, ships would spend less time
both at berth and in queuing. Specific productivity targets were used as shown
in Table 6(ii) for the rate of return calculations.   The results of the
performance are also shown in table 6(ii). As it can be seen from the table, the
data for ship-service and ship-waiting times for Tanjung Priok are shown in the
four categories of vessels which made calls, and those for the other ports are
in aggregate.   The ship-waiting times for Tanjung Priok continued to increase
significantly from their levels in 1987 for all categories of ships except for
container ships where it peaked in 1990 and then tapered off. Notably during
this period, the number of ships making calls there also increased and was
arguably responsible for the worsening of the waiting times.   As the data
indicate, the performance at the container terminal has been relatively better
than at other berths showing noticeable reductions from 1991.
6.9         Based on the data provided the ship-waiting and ship-service times
over the period have fared worse than their outcome estimated at appraisal.
Capacity utilization as measured by berth occupancy rates suggests no indication
of serious congestion as occupancies generally remained at lower than 702. Ship-
service times which are directly related to improvements in cargo handling rates
and equipment availability have by the same token turned out worse than had been
expected. To partly explain the worsened performance, there was a reported high
incidence of mechanical problems with several quayside cranes which prolonged
ship-service times at the container terminal and multipurpose berths.   The
analysis of such data does not offer conclusive indication of the possible time
savings which could be used as basis for economic benefits and basing rate of
return calculations strictly on the expected reductions of ship waiting and
service times as applied in the appraisal methodology would not capture the real
benefits of the project.
6.10        There is, however, sufficient evidence to suggest that the project's
return on investment would at least match the appraisal ERR of 322. First, the
cost of investments in civil works came out much lower than the appraisal
estimate due to more competitive environment in the construction industry.
Secondly, the port traffic in all ports except the port of Teluk Bayur far
exceeded appraisal targets (Table 6(i)). Thirdly, the improved port operating
environment due to the impact of Inpres 4, and the institutional strengthening
activities of the project yielded better operating efficiencies of port assets.
Without doubt, the ports would have faced serious traffic congestion causing long
ship waiting and service ti-es if they were left to operate without the project
investments. Under the scenario without the project where traffic congestion
would have been inevitable due to higher than expected traffic growth, the
imposition of port surcharges by vessel cwners would have been very likely.



- 8 -
In this context the project can be said to have saved substantially in avoided
cost of congestion.
6.11    The project is also believed to have achieved substantial indirect
benefits as followss (a) it helped promote the GOI export drive through the
provision of expanded container tandling facilities which in turn allowed a
growth in containerized exports at the port of Tanjung Priok; (b) it provided a
basis for future containerization of interisland trade as a result of the
installations of basic container handling facilities at the four project ports;
and (c) it strengthened the management of PP-It which will result in improved
port operating efficiency and financial soundness thereby reducing the demand for
inv3stment in additional capacity.
Lessons
6.12        The combination of the regulatory changes and the impact of the
project have augured well for the finances of the port corporation as indicated
by its stronger position now than was before these changes.  Thus PP-II has
achieved an important phase towards the objective of self-financing whereby
central government transfers will be replaced increasingly by internally
generated funds for financing future investments in PP-II ports.
7.    Project-Sustainabilitv
7.1         Sustainability of project benefits is dependent on the ability of
PP-I to utilize properly the new facilities and assets created under the
project.   PP-II has demonstrated itself to be competent to implement major
construction works relatively quickly as it did under this project. Furthermore
during the implementation of the project, PP-IT management was tested by a real
problem of how to deal with a rapidly growing congestion particularly at its
container terminal I. Even though it was managing project construction on its
own, it was able to build a second container terminal which it designed,
developed and commissioned on its own in a very short schedule at a very
competitive cost. In the long run, however, the sustainability of delivering
adequate port services to the users will depend on the ability of PP-II
management to achieve high and sustained levels of productivity of the work
force, make efficient use of port equipment and facilities, and administer
adequate level of tariffs for port services necessary for full cost recovery.
The major risks lie with the question of PP-II's ability (or lack thereof) to
manage the port work force effectively, manage all port functions without undue
interference from the port administrator function, and face an undesirable
prospect of failing to achieve tariff increases which in some respects fall
outside the mandate of the corporation's management.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1         The  Bank  entered  the  discussions  of  this  project with  some
accumulated experience in the maritime sector which by then had benefitted from
three previous Bank-funded operations, namely first and second Shipping projects
and Tanjung Priok Port project.   The lessons learned from the past operations
had convinced the Bank that problem complexities and institutional weaknesses
burdening the sector were the principal limiting factors in achieving objectives



-9 -
of an individual lending operation. Although objectives of past Bank projects
were substantially achieved they were not designed to deal with sector-wide
issues and problems. Recognizing lessons from past operations and the magnitude
of port inefficiencies, the Bank made a timely move of supporting GOI effort in
designing a comprehensive study covering all aspects of the maritime transport
problems and issues in early 1982.   Technical assistance required for the
Maritime Sector Development Program (MSDP) of actions was provided from the
proceeds of the previous Bank loans. Even then the objectives of this project
(modernization and optimization of port equipment and facilities) and the urgency
of the actions required for improving port productivity were well defined and
provided a sufficient basis for preparing a project. And indeed, the Bank took
an unusual step of appraising a suitable project even though the results of the
ongoing studies were still not yet final. However the Bank delayed the loan
processing for reasons that were not explicitly stated, but suggested
uncertainties regarding the implementation arrangements and lingering doubts
about the direction of the sector as a whole as being among such reasons. Vital
time was, therefore, lost during this crucial period when containerization of
port cargo was on the rise. The apparent move by the Bank to appraise a project
may have been in response to the 001's export drive whose fate relied on rapid
actions to improve port productivity. At no time were the principal objectives
of the project in question in which case delays in loan processing should have
been minimized in order to capture early on the predicted benefits of the
project. The delay which followed the appraisal in November 1983 resulted in a
need to post-appraise the project before it was taken to the board for approval
in June of 1985.
8.2         The Bank's performance in identifying sectoral issues and conducting
dialogue with the Government has been good. However, the preparatory phases of
the project took long time. For example records show that the run up period to
loan effectiveness, starting with preparation to appraisals, negotiations and
board approval, consumed staff resources of nearly 260 staff weeks (Table 5) the
bulk of which was absorbed in appraisal and follow-up. However, it is noteworthy
that considerable number of staff resources prior to the appraisal phase were
expended on more general sector work and a third Maritime Project which was later
abandoned. Once the loan was signed however, there was only a small delay of
about a month before the loan became effective.
8.3         Bank supervision of the project was minimal during the critical
initial phase of implementation launch and mobilization (para. 5). The mission's
review, six months after the loan became effective concluded that a number of
factors influencing the project changed, and with the delay already incurred a
revision was made, resulting in a substantial cost reduction and elimination of
some schemes from the project. The decision to change the scope of the project,
only a few months after appraisal diminished the benefits that could have been
attributable to the high costs incurred in preparing this project. The original
objectives of the project were generally maintained, in spite of the changes in
the scope.
8.4         Subsequent  Bank  missions  reported  satisfactory  progress  in
implementation despite the institutional weaknesses of the implementing agencies.
Physical progress proceeded generally satisfactorily as the Bank put 20-22 staff
weeks a year on average for the supervision of the project and the fledgling



- 10 -
Perumpel-I1  performed far better than was expected.   This level of Bank
supervision is perceived to be at least partly responsible for putting the
project on a manageable implementation schedule even though it did not always
permit adequate supervision to cover the four ports outside Java which were
rarely visited by Bank missions.
Lessons:
8.5         Although the Bank used a large amount of resources in time and
personnel in the preparation of the project, these costs were justified by a
successful policy dialogue which brought about important reforms. The timing of
the project was good as GOI had embarked on an export drive for non-oil products.
The combination of good timing for the project and the Bank's commitment to
policy analysis and reform made it possible for this project to be implemented
in a less regulated sector environment. Technical assistance activities played
a vital role in defining the scope of the project and in meeting specific
objectives.
8.6         The start-up problems which were responsible for the lion's share of
the project delays may have been minimized if intensified Bank supervision
followed immediately after the loan became effective. The records show that
there was no Bank supervision during the critical period of project mobilization
until about six months later at which time no noticeable progress was made.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         GOI performance in the project was good, guided by its early
recognition of the need to analyze sector-wide shortcomings and to devise
remedial measures for bringing about badly needed rapid improvements in port
operational and management efficiency. The principal instrument of the Borrower
for providing the analytical framework for actions was the Maritime Sector
Development Program (MSDP) whose findings and recommendations provided the basis
for the objectives of the port project.   MSDP, inter alia, concluded port
optimization studies for the Perumpol-II ports were necessary to determine
specific investments needed to bring down the high costs associated with
cumbersome customs procedures, port operating inefficiencies, and shipping route
patterns. The Borrower responded well to the recommendations and took specific
plans of actions. As a location for the immediate sation on investments the
Borrower chose the administrative zone of Perumpel-11 which encompasses a region
where most international and domestic trade is generated (para.2.5). The MSDP
also established that despite the recent investments in container handling
facilities, the gateway port of Tanjung Priok would need more facilities to cope
with the expected growth in cargo containerization.   Also the operating
conditions of the other four ports in the zone were severely hampered by
deteriorated installations and systems obsolescence many of which were due for
decommissioning. The Borrower's grasp of the sector's problems and readiness
to take action was instrumental in defining the objectives of the project. GOI's
performance was immensely enhanced also by its promulgation and subsequent
implementation of Inpres 4/1985 which brought far reaching impacts particularly
on port operations and management. The particular elements of Inpres 411985 more
relevant to port improvements included relaxed restrictions on port access for
foreign-owned vessels, and domestic cargo tariffs, and the reform of the customs



- 11 -
procedures which allowed freer movement of cargo in ports. In many ways the
implementation of Inpres 4 created a conducive environment at the ports for
achieving the stated goals of the project.
9.2         An important function related to the implementation of the project
was that of properly documenting project transactions for later use in evaluating
the impact of the project. It is now evident that this function was overlooked
as illustrated by the fragmentation of project related accounts among
implementing agencies and inconsistencies in port data, the use of which may
raise doubt about the integrity of such information for analytical purposes.
There was also no reporting requirement for over all project implementation
summarizing physical and financial pzogress on a regular basis. If periodic
progress reports were made and carefully reviewed, it would have been possible
to make early and timely detections of where the problems were occurring. No
doubt the information system of the port corporation has improved significantly
as a result of various actions taken during this project. For example, on the
financial accounting side the service oriented, cost based accounting system was
designed and introduced, and improved port operating procedures replaced the old
ones. These improvements vould hopefully begin to change the quality of port
information systems in the near future.
9.3         Implementation phase of the project was modified within the first
year of start up because Borrower's implementation capacity was deemed weak
(para. 5); considerable time lapsed without discernible progress during the early
part of project execution causing a concern about the implementation schedule.
However, it is noteworthy that during this period of delays there were also many
changes taking place at the ports and in the MOC, precipitated by implementation
of Inpres 4 with its considerable impact on the project as originally conceived.
The Bank and the Borrower agreed to reassess and modify the project scope
setting more realistic targets both in physical investments and port operating
performance in the aftermath of Inpres 4. The Borrower's readiness to adapt to
the new scope of the project without causing major delays was commendable. Since
the modification of the project the Borrower succeeded in maintaining project
implementation generally on schedule.
Lessons
9.4         Borrower's procurement procedures were time- consuming and differed
in some respects  from Bank guidelines.    Such differences added to the
implementation delays especially in obtaining approvals for the bid documentation
from the Bank and 001.   Standardization of bid documents and procurement
procedures as recently agreed between the Bank and the Borrower helped obviate
such delays.
9.5         The GOIs' promulgation of Inpres 4/1985 was a landmark decision
which accelerated port efficiency improvements which might have otherwise not
been possible with the project alone.  The decision also demonstrated  how
effective regulatory reforms can bring about noticeable operational efficiencies
in the sector without necessarily making large investments.



- 12 -
10. Relationships
10.1        The relationships of the Bank and the Borrower were satisfactory, had
positive impacts on the project and helped bring about the sweeping reforms in
the maritime sector (pars. 8.1). Both the Bank and the Borrower came to realize
the urgent reforms needed in the sector in general, and in improving operations
and management of Indonesian ports. This good relationship provided a climate
for the government to accelerate the pace of reform in the maritime sector which
benefitted the project. The fledgling Perumpel-IT, vhich was only a few years
old as a semi-autonomous body displayed a commendable responsibility as it took
on most of the implementation tasks with less direct control by DGSC, bringing
the project to a successful completion. However, after the promulgation of the
reforms under Inpres 4/1985 the role of the port edministrator viz-a-viz the port
management regarding day to day administration of the ports was not always
clearly defined. The port administrator who initially reported to the Minister
has a coordination function that is much needed among the several agencies with
port related functions, including Perumpel-II, Harbor Master's office,
Navigational office, sea transport, customs, immigration, etc. The fact that the
port administrator reported to the Minister even on day-to-day management was
perceived to undercut the autonomy of the Perumpel management. As both the port
management and the functions of the Adpel are vital for improving port
productivity and smooth operations, clearer division of responsibilities would
have to be made to facilitate their respective roles.
Lesson
10.2        Inpres 4 recognized the two distinct functions of  government and
port services at the ports which are respectively headed by an administrator
(Adpel) and a president director. While the perumpel and the adpel have been in
existence for only a short while there is need for a more clearly defined
division of responsibility as well as accountability for the undertakings at the
ports. Such a definition of responsibility would help towards increasing port
productivity as a whole.
11.   Prolect Documentation and Data
11.1        Overall project documentation provided substantial materials on the
background of the project. The SAR has wealth of information on the project
objectives and its justifications and the legal documents (the Loan and Project
Agreements) were satisfactory.   However, the detailed analyses of economic
benefits and rate of return were not available in the project file. Also, during
the  implementation,   there  was  no  specific  requirement   for  regular
reporting(e.g.quarterly, semi- annually, or annually) of the over all progress
of the project.
11.2        The port data--financial,  traffic,  and performance  indicators
prepared by PP-II were not always consistent. Such inconsistencies in the data
renders them unreliable for use in quantitative analysis of port operations as
they could lead to erroneous conclusions. One of the problems arises from the
appearance that data management is less important in the hierarchy of port
management activities and remains decentralized, giving way to inconsistencies.



- 13 -
12.   Consultinx Services
12.1        Consultants were used extensively for (a) design and supervision; (b)
project preparation (financed under previous loans); (c) institution building;
and (d) policy qnalysis and sector related planning.  A- list of consulting
services provided to the corporation and agencies of the Ministry of
Communications (MOC's planning,legal and state enterprise bureaus, DGSC, and
DGLC)  is provided in Table 7.   The technical assistance components were
implemented flexibly within the over all objectives of the project to allow for
the changes taking place in the sector regulatory environment.   The major
contributions made by consultarts included: project implementation support to PP-
II, carrying out action plans for improving port accounting systems, management
information and operating procedures, an umbrella for commenting on proposals
for private sector involvement, and designing a planning model for financial and
economic analyses of port investments. These components completed on schedule
have made valuable contribution to the objective of strengthening the
institutional capability of PP-II. However, the components implemented by the
ministry were found to be time- consuming in both their procurement and
implementation phases and required more supervision by the Bank. But outcomes
of several of the technical assistance services made valuable contributions to
the ministry's specific efforts: The MOC planning bureau received valuable advice
on sector policy initiatives and reforms,and an improved basis for determining
expenditure priorities; the Legal bureau   received limited legal advice on
deregulation strategies; the state enterprise bureau received assistance in
designing an integrated planning and monitoring system for state enterprises in
the sector; and DG Bina Marga (NPW) and DGLC received advisory services on road
traffic and transport on regulations governing vehicle weight and dimension
limits. The outcome of some of the major studies such as the O&D surveys, the
Land Transport Development Study, and the DGSC sector monitoring have provided
important inputs for future sector planning and policy analysis. The consultant
work on the DGSC MIS study was deemed unsatisfactory because inter alia, it did
not give sufficient attention to the important problem of data capture.
Lesson
12.2        The technical assistance played an important role in the design,
preparation, and implementation  of the project, and in providing valuable
advisory services to MOC and its agencies in sector planning, policy analysis,
and regulatory reforms. Given the Borrower's traditionally weak institutions,
good quality outcome of technical assistance requires intensive supervision by
the Bank from the beginning with the design of the TORs, to the end with the
review of reports. AL a corollary, inadequate Bank supervision of technical
assistance components often results in unsatisfactory outcomes.



14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMAD Loan No. 2577-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
1.  INTRODUCTION
2.  ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.  VARIATIONS IN SCOPE FROM ORIGINAL LOAN AGREEMENT
4.  KEY PORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
5.  COMPLIANCE WITH MA40R LOAN CONDMONS
6.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
7.  EVALUATION OF IBRD PERFORMANCE
8.  EVALUATION OF PELABUHAN If AND GOI PERFORMANCE
9.  CONCLUSIONS
PT (Persero) Pelabuhan Indonesia II
July 1993



16
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2577-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  INTRODUCTION
In accordance with its determination to increase non-oil exports, the Government
of Indonesia sought to increase the efficiency of the port sector. Low port
productivity was effecting the Indonesian economy and raising sea transport costs
which were reflected in higher world market prices of Indonesian commodities and
also raising the price of both local and imported goods in the local market. The
Government recognised that low port productivity also hinders the pace of
regional development, especially in the port hinterlands where growth of the local
economy is very dependant on efficient trade between the area and the region.
In connection with the above, the Government entered into a cooperation with the
World Bank, later followed by a formal agreement, to overcome the restraints
causing low port productivity by improving port management and procedures as
well as port facilities. This was expected to reduce ship turnaround time, thereby
increasing ship operational efficiency and hence lowering sea transportation costs.
Major administrative reform in 1983 brought all public ports under the control of
four regional semi-autonomous public portcorporations. The largest of these was
Perum Pelabuhan II which, on 19 October 1991, changed its legal status to PT
(Persero) Pelabuhan Indonesia II. Initial studies of the Pelabuhan 11 ports led to
concentration on improving the efficiency and facilities in the five major ports in
the region - Tanjung Priok, Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang and Pontianak.
Negotiations with the World Bank led to the signing of IBROD Loan No. 2577-IND
for US$ 111 million, effective October 1985. Of this amount, US$ 100.2 million
was on-lent to Pelabuhan II through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA), the
balance to be disbursed by the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the
Directorate General of Sea Communications (DGSC). The purpose of the loan was:
Streamlining of the administrative procedures and organisations of Perumpel
11 and all the branch ports, especially the five major ports.
Rehabilitation and expansion of port facilities in the five major ports and
improavement of terminal operations.
Advancement of the skill and knowledge of Pelabuhan II personnel via
human resource development.
Provide technical assistance and training to DGSC and MOC and the other
public port corporations, Pelabuhan I,ll,and IV.



17
2.   ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
General
The total project cost is summarised in Table 1, together with the cost estimates
of the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of 1985. The loan allocation, sector
disbursements and final loan balance are presented in Table 2. Details of the
actual project costs by sector and contract given in Table 3 (civil), Table 4
(equipment) and Table 5 (consultants).
The overall project cost was US$ 142.0 million compared to the 1985 SAR
estimate of US$ 186.5, and the Bank disbursed only US$ 76.9 million from the
original allocation of US$ 111.0 million. The principal differences lie in much
lower costs for civil work, partially offset by substantial increases in spending on
equipment, technical assistance and training.
CMhi Work
Several factors contributed to the large reduction in the cost of the civil works.
Firstly, with the approval of the Bank, the scope was somewhat reduced (refer
Section 4). Then, following the world economy, a downturn in the construction
industry leading up to the tender period increased competition among the bidders
and this was further emphasised by staggering the civil work tenders at two week
intervals, resulting in extremely competitive bids for the latter packages. The
devaluation of the Rupiah in 1986 further reduced the local costs in dollar terms.
Equipment
Initially only two container cranes and some supporting equipment were ordered
for the Tanjung Priok container terminal, while awaiting completion of the wharf
strengthening and extension of the container yard. It soon became evident that
the container projections for Tanjung Priok had been underestimated (the 1989
container throughput exceeded the 1990 forecast) and a substantial investment
from the Loan was made in container handling equipment. Furthermore, as the
container growth continued to escallate, Perumpel II developed Container Terminal
11 with its own funds, by modifying an existing general cargo terminal. Besides
the IBRD-funded equipment, therefore, Perumpel II purchased additional new and
used container handling equipment to service both container terminals. A full list
of equipment is given in Table 7, all of which was assigned to Tanjung Priok. The
total project investment in equipment, including the Perumpel II procurement,
became US$ 65 million compared to the original allocation of US$ 27 million. The
justification for this is clear from the explosive growth in container traffic in
Tanjung Priok; the throughput in 1990, for example, virtually equalled the SAR
forecast for the year 2000.



Technical Assistance. Consultancy and Training
The technical assistance and training programs were both expanded during the
course of the project. The technical assistance allocation was increased to
include feasibility studies and masterplan reviews for the next expansion of the
Ports of Tanjung Priok, Paniang and Pontianak. The local and overseas training
programs in various aspects of port and equipment management were extended
to include staff from Perumpel I, IlIl and IV, and an overseas post graduate
program was included. Training for DGSC senior staff in the environmental
provisions of the IMO Convention was provided, in connection with Indonesia's
ratification of the Convention.
Loan Amendments
Referring to Table 2. the first amendment in mid 1989 reduced the value of the
Loan from USS 111,000,000 to US$ 82,690,000 reflecting the low contract
prices for the civil works and the initial reduction in equipment. Construction
management services were transferred from the DGSC to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA) budget, the technical assistance budget was expanded and the
unallocated budget reduced. Following this loan reduction, the container trade
continued to escallate rapidly and Perumpel 11 was compelled to use its own funds
to purchase urgently needed equipment, as explained above. The second
amendment in 1991 was a reallocation of the loan, primarily to restore the original
budget for equipment and assign it all to the Tanjung Priok container terminal.
I
3.   VARIATIONS IN SCOPE FROM ORIGINAL LOAN AGREEMENT
A comparison of the project as executed versus the Loan Agreement is presented
in Table 6 (civil work) and Table 7 (equipment). The Project rimetable, spanning
more than 11 years, is presented in Figure 1. Figure 2 gives full details of the
equipment procurement schedule, both IBRD-financed and Pelabuhan If financed.
Civil Work
Apart from the Port of Teluk Bayur, the civil work was executed without major
problems. At Teluk Bayur, problems arose from failure to gain the Provincial
Govemment's approval for quarrying operations at the Ioca..`ns implied in the
tender documents. This caused substantial delays and associated cost while
alternative sources of sand and rock were ascertained. A minor problem arose
later at Teluk Sayur with differential settlement of transit shed foundations which
was monitored, checked and rectified.



19
The civil works for four of the ports were completed within 1 to 2 years; Teluk
Bayur took 4.5 years mainly because of the problems mentioned above (Table 1).
Mechanical
It Is clear from Table 7 that the principal variation from the original intent has been
to assign nearly all the equipment to Tanjung Priok where all of the container
growth has been, except for some promising trade in Panjang. The second major
change has been the large additional investment in equipment from Pelabuhan II's
own funds to cope with the burgeoning container growth which was much greater
than forseen in the SAR.
From the detailed equipment schedule of Figure 2, with the exception of Item 6.
the procurement of IBRD-financed equipment spanned 4 years. The repeat order
of 3 wide-span RTG cranes were ordered in 1990 as a replacement for the third
container crane which was included in the SAR but was ultimately financed by
Pelabuhan 11. It is interesting to record that the latter, one of 3 ordered from
Noell, have outperformed the cheaper IBRD-financed cranes from Hyundai.
4.   KEY PORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actual port throughput data for the five ports is given in Table 8, with a
comparison with the SAR predictions. More detailed traffic data for Tanjung Priok
is given in Table 9. Container tproughput in Tanjung Priok in 1990 was nearly
40% above the prediction.
It is evident from Table 10 that, in many cases, the operational performance in all
five ports has fallen short of the SAR targets for 1990. The following comments
refer to items in Table 10.
(a)  The target throughput per ship per shift for general cargo has been
achieved in all five project ports, although somewhat inconsistently, but
only Tanjung Priok and Panjang have met the SAR target for containers.
(b)  In Tanjung Priok there are usually 2 to 3 gangs working every ship. The
Tanjung Priok Container Terminal works 24 hours per day but most general
cargo vessels have been serviced by only two shifts per day. Exceptions
have been usually when there was direct truck lossing to godowns outside
the port which can receive goods 24 hours per day. However, under new
regulations in 1993, the Private Terminal Operator System (STO) has been
introduced in Tanjung Priok which is to provide 24 hour service, and the
Government grain distribution company has been instructed to receive
produce from ships 24 hours/day.



2n
(c)  Equipment productivity is not calculated separately from  labour
productivity, but equipment availability is discussed in (e).
(d)  The average dwell times are much longer than the targets and have been
very difficult to reduce in Tanjung Priok and elsewhere. The reason is that
the storage tarifs inside the port are so low, especially for containers, that
cargo owners prefer to leave it there.
(e)   Except for the main equipment at the Tanjung Priok Container Terminal,
equipment availability is still poor, although better than before. The low
average availability at the Container Terminal in 1990 was caused by a
lengthy major overhaul of one of the original 10 year old cranes. Figures
for Tanjung Priok general cargo are only available for Pelabuhan II
equipment, but over 90% of the handling equipment is operated by the
terminal operators.
(f)  Ship waiting times presented in the table are gross times except for
Tanjung Priok which are net. Gross waiting time is the total tumaround
time less berthing time. Net waiting time excludes waiting for cargo,
documentation or repairs, and waiting either before or after servicing for
scheduled connections in Singapore (mooring at Tanjung Priok is cheaper).
Although overall berth occupancy ratios are close to or even lower than the
SAR target levels, ship waiting times are still greater than the targets. This
is due in part to ships being forced to wait for space at the deeper berths
while being prevented by draft or length restrictions from using one of the
shallower berths where berth occupancy is relatively low. The large
proportion of tramper ships, about 55%, also make scheduling difficult.
Pelabuhan II does not agree with the high SAR target berth occupancies
and is aiming for 65% for general cargo berths and below 50% for
container berths.
(g)  Although the service time for container vessels has almost met the target,
the average general cargo service time in Tanjung Priok is still much higher
than the target. A partial explanation is that general cargo ships are often
waiting alongside the berth for outbound cargo or for trucks to receive
inbound cargo. Other time consuming factors are bagging of incoming bulk
cargo in the hold and the poor condition of ships' gear, especially on inter-
island vessels.
Moreover, the port performance figures in the table are total berth times
which include effective service time, plus idle time (about 12% of service
time), plus non-working time (shifts not worked). For example, the average
effective service time for oceangoing ships in 1992 was 44 hours out of 65
hours total berthing time. Further improvement is expected but the SAR
target of 30 hours for general cargo vessels appears somewhat unrealistic
with the present facilities.



21
The 1992 Tanjung Priok Feasibility Study and Masterplan Review
recommended construction of a special grain terminal and a multi-user bulk
terminal, which would considerably reduce the average service time and
consequently berth occupancy throughout the Port.
(h)  The low average berth occupancy for the Tanjung Priok Container Terminal
in 1991 reflects the opening of the 2-berth Container Terminal II in mid
year. The sharp rise In 1992 was due to a 35% rise in traffic through the
container terminal, including container traffic transferred from the
conventional berths.
(i)  The above comments for Tanjung Priok berth occupancy ratio also explain
the apparent drop in berth productivity in 1991 and the sharp rise in 1992.
The apparently very high productivity for Teluk Bayur is due to the
predominance of bulk coal and bag cement exports over the public wharf
using appropriate mechanical equipment. General cargo in Teluk Bayur
represents only about 25% of the total.
5.   COMPLIANCE WITH MAJOR LOAN CONDITIONS
A review of the Loan Covenants and compliance is shown in Table 12. In general,
Pelabuhan II has more than met the financial loan covenants, but some of the
individual ports have not achieved the targets. Full details are presented in
Section 6 below. With respect to port efficiency covenants, the actual versus
target indicators are presented ip Table 10. Several of the important covenants
have been met, such as throughput/ship/shift, berth occupancy and berth
productivity, but other targets have not been reached. Detailed explanations are
given in Section 4.
6.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Comparative Income Statements, Balance Sheets, Changes in Financial
Position and Financial Ratios are presented in Tables 13 to 16.
The financial performance was influenced by a number of operating parameters,
e.g., tarifs, cost control, cargo distribution and composition and debt burden, as
mentioned in Section 6.3 of the Project Review from Bank's Perspective, which
are reflected in the above tables. The income statement figures include allocation
of head office expenses. For 1992, the figures only show the financial position
up to November 30 because from December 1, 1992 Perum Pelabuhan II became
PT (Persero) Pelabuhan Indonesia II, a limited company.



22
As the records show, the operating results of Pelabuhan II have increased
significantly during the period 1987/1992 and surpassed the SAR and covenant
targets. The working ratio declined from about 80% In 1987 to 42.8% in 1992
and the operating ratio declined from 103% In 1987 to 61.4% in 1992, compared
to the covenant targets of working ratio 80% and operating ratio 95.6%.
Compared with the 1987 positions, total operating revenues in 1992 Increased
384% and operating expenses in 1992 only increased 229%, showing that the
growth of annual revenues was 1.6 times that of expenses.
Within Pelabuhan II, Tanjung Priok Branch Port, especially the Container Terminal,
gives the largest contribution to the Corporation. Tanjung Priok accounted for
78.5% of total revenues and more than 90% of net income in 1992. Besides
Tanjung Priok, Panjang Port which now handles significant containerized cargo
shows a good growth and has very good prospects for the future.
The Ports of Palembang and Pontianak failed to achieve some financial covenant
targets but these two ports also improved their financial efficiency as illustrated
in the declining of working ratios from 115% in 1987 to about 90% in 1992
(Palembang) and from 225% to about -71 % (Pontianak).
Teluk Bayur Port achieved the working ratio target, but the operating ratio
increased significantly in 1992 because of the debt service burden which was
allocated to this port.
The financial viability of Pelabuhan II in 1992 continues to be robust with a debt
equity ratio of 22/78 and an increase in the rate of return on net fixed assets
(before tax) from 0.6% in 1987 to 20.9% in 1992. The major debt burden
actue,11y incurred under the SubsiIiary Loan Agreement is US$ 60.5 million and the
net income before tax is 7.6 times the estimated debt service requirement, which
is a much higher ratio than the covenant requirement.
7.   EVALUATION OF IBRD PERFORMANCE
1.   The time taken for initial project appraisal was very long (refer Figure 1).
Project preparation began in mid 1981 but the Staff Appraisal Report was
not issued until May 1985. Although loan negotiations proceeded in
parallel with completion of the SAR, more than 4 years elapsed from the
start of project preparation until loan effectiveness. This delay was further
compounded by delays in the Government procurement process, as
described in Section 8.



23
2.   Disbursements by the Bank were not slow, provided the applications were
complete. However, the payment advice, which accompanied each
payment application and documented the actual date of payment and the
applicable exchange rate, was often delayed in its return to Pelabuhan II.
This caused consequent delays in the submission of Pelabuhan II financial
reports to DGSC, MOC and Bappenas.
3.   The World Bank Guidelines require all contract variation orders above a
value of USS 50,000 to be approved by the Bank, causing additional
administration and potential for delay. Provided that the loan category limit
in the Project Agreement is not exceeded, the US$ 50,000 limit seems an
unnecessarily severe restriction on the project management and should be
raised. As a guide, the President Director of Pelabuhan If has a Rp. 3 billion
(US$ 1.5 million) authority in local contracts.
8.   EVALUATION OF PELABUHAN 11 AND GOI PERFORMANCE
1.   There have been substantial delays in the procurement process. An
indication of the complexity of the GOI procurement process under Keppres
29/1984 is illustrated in Figure 3. There have been few changes in this
procurement organisation except that the State Secretariat has now been
replaced by the Coordinating Ministry for Economics, Finance and
Development Control (E5UWASBANG). In addition to following this
procedure, the project management also endeavoured to follow the Bank
Guidelines as well, and obtain Bank approval at each relevant stage.
2.  In general the execution of civil works went well, except for a few early
problems requiring more coordination, especially in areas connected with
other Government Agencies such as water, electricity and quarries.
3.   Construction work in Teluk Bayur port was delayed because of difficulties
with quarry permits for rock and sand under the control of the Provincial
Government of West Sumatera.
4.   A major problem emerged during the Goverment internal post audit of all
the IBRD port projects, centering on differences between the World Bank
Guidelines and Keppres 29/1984, especially in the treatment of price
escallation, contingencies and general items in the bill of quantities. Final
payments to the contractor for the Teluk Bayur civil works were delayed
pending resolution of this internal audit problem. These payments will be
made by Pelabuhan 11 and did not affect the closure of the Loan.



21!
5.   While berth occupancy levels are close to or below the SAR targets, the net
ship waiting times remain above the targets in several cases, especially the
Tanjung Priok Container Terminal, but there has been further improvement
in 1993. Gross waiting times at Tanjung Priok are much greater than
shown in Table 10, because ships are often waiting for documentation or
outbound cargo or, in the case of container vessels, waiting for scheduled
transhipment times in Singapore.
6.   Pelabuhan II has continued to give particular attention to the environmental
aspects of port development. Following the conclusion of the IBRD-
financed FNPDP in 1992, environmental studies, management and
monitoring have continued with Perumpel II's own budget in the Ports of
Tanjung Priok, Panjang, Teluk Bayur and Palembang. The studies are being
carried out in accordance with the 1987 Standard of the Ministry of
Population and Environment.
7.   Although not included in the Staff Appraisal Report, proceeds of the loan
were applied to Feasibility Studies and Masterplan Reviews of the Ports of
Tanjung Priok, Panjang and Pontianak which were successfully concluded
in 1991 and 1992. The studies included comprehensive environmental
investigations carried out in accordance with the World Bank guidelines.
9.   CONCLUSIONS
1.   Four of the five FNOP ports have shown satisfactory progress in terms of
ship calls, cargo throughput and port performance, as evidenced by the
enclosures. The Port of Teluk Bayur, however, has not produced the
expected results; traffic has not reached the forecasts. Pelabuhan II
intends to hold discussions with the Provincial Government to encourage
industrial development in West Sumatera which may lead to a flow-on
benefit to the Port.
2.   The financial status of Pelabuhan II has improved greatly since the
beginning of the Project. The growth of annual revenues since 1987 has
been 1.6 times the growth of expenditures and the working and operating
ratios have exceeded the covenant targets by a wide margin. All of the
profit, however, comes from Tanjung Priok and Panjang. Palembang and
Pontianak are much improved but still make a small overall operating loss.
Teluk Bayur has fallen behind, as explained above.



25
3.   The time spent on project appraisal should be reduced. Data collection and
evaluation at each stage should be limited to the level necessary to permit
a decision whether or not to proceed to the next stage. Marginal projects
or sectors should be eliminated early.
4.   The procurement process must be simplified as far as practicable. For
future World Bank projects, consultations should be held between the
Goverment and the Bank to develop a standard form of contract agreeable
to both the Bank and all the relevant Government Agencies which can be
applied to all World Bank projects in Indonesia.
5.   Data collection and processing in Pelabuhan II should be improved. The
information system for port statistics should be further simplified,
streamlined and standardised. New data collection and presentation
systems have been introduced in 1993 with this intention, in the Tanjung
Priok STO and container terminals.
6.   Coordination with the Local Government Agencies should be improved,
especially during the preparation of tender documents so that local
conditions will be taken into account, particularly with regard to sourcing
local materials such as sand and rock.
7.   Levels of financial authority should be reviewed so that, once the Project
Agreement and budget are established and contracts are approved, contract
variations can be expedited without another lengthy approval process.
8.  To overcome disbursement delays within Pelabuhan II, each site project
team should be strenghened and, in addition, a separate project
coordination unit should be set up in the head office with sufficiently strong
authority to control and expedite all payments and problems from the
individual projects.
9.   The paor equipment availability needs urgent attention. Procurement
procedures, spare part inventories, workshop facilities and skill levels must
be reviewed and rectified where necessary to repair equipment quickly.
10. The 1991 Tanjung Priok Feasibility Study concluded that the Container
Terminal Ill needs to be operational by 1996 to avoid congestion.
Pelabuhan II is endeavouring to carry out this project as soon as possible.
but implementation has been delayed 2 years while waiting on development
proposals from a private consortium.
11. The 1993 Feasibility Studies of the Ports of Panjang and Pontianak also
recommended new construction as well as operational improvements. A
new 300 metre container berth and a private bulk terminal are now planned
for the fast-growing trade in Panjang, and a new passenger terminal and
general cargo wharf have been recommended for Pontianak.



26
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2577-ND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART It
TABLES



Table: 1
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
aSPID LOAN NR 25r77 IND                                                                                                                  -(  S Toads I
_______ _ ,lTOTAL ACTUAt PROJECT COST A FINANCE                                                   TOTAL       APPRAS  ESTIMATE
NO              CATEGORY                   I SRO R4P                         PELAOUHAN 11            TAXVAT BY 001       TOTALS          EX VAT            (EX VAT)
015Ut8lSEMENT    ESTIMATE
I L CML WORK                              24,662.90       25,287.84                                      3.S76.24        53 8.5          49.95.74            15000.00
2 IL EOUIPENT                              2t.479.13                      37.,65."          316.9                        64,961.69       64.90.69             34.7.000
3 It TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   0.392.94                      4,353.42                                       12,746.36       12.746.36             6.0D.C0
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
SLA SUB TOTAL                 60.5J4 9Z      25.267.64      41,519.08         316.0         3,976.24       131,635.03       127,658.79          175,700.00
4 I0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANTS AND TPAINING
*MO C                                  4.86530t                                                                       4,6.01 4,,S5.01
-D oSC                                 9.446.85                                                                       9,44.85         9,446.35
NON SUI SUB TOTAL               14.311.86         O0o0             0.00           0.00            0.00        14,3t1.6         t4.31t 1t           10,800.00
_GRAND TOTAL                 74.846831               1                   . _          .      .   .         145,946.09      141,970.65           188.500.00



Table: 2
LOAN ALLOCATION AND FINAL BALANCE
D LOAN NO. 2577-IND                                                                                                      ( US.$)
LOAN ALLOCATED      _       IRD                       TOTAL PROJECT COST            -__
CATEGORY                                        CONTRACT                      GOIIPI .U                                LOAN
ORIGINAL   AMEND.I  AMEND.II   AMOUNT         I B RD                                 TOTAL (EX.VAT)   BALANCE
DISBURSEMEN   ESTIMATE
1  2       3         4           5           6              7             8         9=6+7+8        10=4-6
'OPAL WORK
. Tanjung Ptiok   11,800.000  6.560,000   5.980,000   6.560,000   5,963,581.74  5,982,080.00      0.00   11.945.661.74    16,41 8.26
Teluk Bayur      19,950.000  14,265,000  15.321,000   14,265,000  12,531,000.06    13,146,480.00  0.00   25,677,480.06  2789.999.94
. Panjang         5,950.000  4,100,000  3,189,000   4,100,000   3,188,452.02  3,184,200.00        0.00    6,372,652.02     547.98
I. Palembang       4,900.000  1.075,000    977,000   1,075,000    976,902.87    975.000.00        0.00    1.951,902.87       97.13
Pontianak         5,400.000  2,840,000  2,003,000   2,840,000   2,002,965.24  2,000,080.00       0.00    4,003,04524       34.76
Sub Total 1    48,000.000  28.840,000  27,470.000  28,840,000  24.662,901.93    25,287,840.00   0.00   49,950,741.93  2,807,098.07
EQUIPMENT
!, Tanjung Priok  21.200.000  14,680,000  28,000.000  28,618,650  27,479,128.80    37,165,660.00    316,900.00   64,961,688.80   520,871.20  ao
:. Teluk Bayur     1,650,000    900,000        0          0           0.00           0.00
: Pan]ang          1,250,000    700,000        0          0           0.00           0.00
1. Palembang       1.850,000    200,000        0          0           0.00           0.00
. Pontianak        1,100,000    400,000       0           0          0.00            0.00
Sub Total 2    27,050.000  16,880,000  28,000,000   28,618,650  27,479,128.80    37,165,660.00    316,900.00   64,961,888.80   520,871.20
TECHNICAL ASS./
,ONSULTANCY
-LA(PERUMPELII)    1,550,000  6,600,000  9,380,000   8,593,944   8,392,944.19  4,353,420.00        0.00   12,746,364.19   967,055.81
UNALLOCATED       23,600,000  5,800,000        0          0                          0.00
SUB TOTAL SLA    100,200,000  58,120,000  64,830,000  66,052,594  60,534,974.92    66,806,920.00    3t6,900.00  127,658,794.92  4,295,025.08
TECHNICAL ASS.I
,ONSULTANCY
4ON SLAIMOC&DG   10,800,000  24,570,000  17,860,000   13,908,661  14,311,861.17      0.00          0.00   14,311,861.17  3,548,138.83
PROJECT TOTAL   111.000,000  82.690,000  82.690,000   79 961.255   74.846,836.09    66,806,920.  0 0.00  141.970,656.09  7,843,163.91
VER PAYMENT FUN  HELD BY PERIUMPEL 1                           2,036, 35.92   __  __ -                                 2,036,635.92
FINAL                                        76,883,472.01                                            5,806,527.99
Nxcluding $ 2,036,635.92 Over Payment



Table: 3
PROJECT COST - CIVIL WORK
________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _I _  _ _        and
CONTRACT VALUE                                                                    ACTUAL PROJECT COST
3   NAME OF PORT    PROJECT SCHEDULE            ORIGINAL             ORIGtNAL             I R p     -        GOUDiP        TAXVAT BY GOt            GRAND TOTAL
START   COMPLETION        CONTRACT        CONTRACT INCL.VAT                                                                   MNCL VAT
1. TANUNG PRIOK    07t2-87    09t15-89    USS          12.418.00 USS        13,660.00 USS       5,963.58 US$       5.98Z08 USS         1,357.83 USS       13303.49
Equivalent:         Equivalent:          Equivalent:        Equivalent:        Equiveent:          Equivalent:
Rp.    14,219,110.54  Fp.    15.641.021.59  Rp.   6,941,536.35 Rp.   6,941.536.35 Flp.    1,162.841.06 Pp.   15,045.913.78
USS         1,565.02 USS         1.721.53  USS       782.51 USS         782.51 USS          13021  USS        1t69523
Yen       319,790.16 Yen       351,769.18 Yen     159,895.08 Yen     159,695.08 Yen       27.036A5 Yen       346,626.61
2. TELUK 8AYUR       10-01-87    03.31-92    USS       25,936.00 USS        28.530.00 USS      12,531.00 USS      13,146.48 USS        1,688.14 US$       27.363.62
Equivalent:         Equivalent:           Equivaent:        Equivalent:        Equerivt:           Equvalent:
Rp.    15,472,176.00 Rp.    17.019.393.66 Rp.   6,851,873.06 Rp.   7,720.455.58 Pp.      603,230.12 Ftp.   15,375.558.76
1US$       18,2t.74 US$         19,811.25 USS       8,704.36 USS       9,071.61 1U$          99.74 US$        18.775,71
3. PANJANG           08.1847     0-31-89    USS         7,678.00 US$         8,444.00 USS       3,188.45 USS       3,184.20 USS         418.06 USS         6,790.71
Equivalent:         Equivalent:          Equivldnt:         Eqwuiaent:         Equivalent:         Equivalent:
Rp.      5.949.079.28  Rp.   6,543,987.21  Rp.   2,603,032.49 Rp.  , 2,603.032.49 Ap.    263,416.50  Rp.    5,469,481.48
USS         4,232.06 USS         4,655.27 USS       1,669.77 USS       1,669.77 USS         180.66 US$         3,520.20
4. PALEMBANG         1142-87     11-3088    USS         2,062.00 USS         2,268.00 US$        978.90 US$         975.00 USS           194.48  USS       2.146.36
Equivalent:         Equivalent:          Equivalent:        Equivalent:        Equivalent:         Equivaent:
Rp.      3,010.229.32 Rp.    3,312,022.26 Fp.    1,515,751.43 Rp.   1,515,751.53 Rp.     119,208.10 Rp.    3.150,711.06
USS          189.34 US$           208.28 US$          79.07 US$          79.07 US$            6.01  US$         164.15
5. PONTIANAK         09-1547     09-3089    US$         5,345.00 USS         5,879.00 US$       2,002.96 USS       2,000.08 US.        - 319.73 US$        4.322.77
Equivalent:         Equivalent:          Equivalent:        Equivalent:        EquivWalnt:         Equivalent:
Rp.     4,012,411.74 Rp.     4,413,652.92 Rp.   1,092,167.85 Pp.   t.094,206.98 Rp.       65,284.17 Rp.    2,251,659.00
US$         2172.20  US$         2,390.52 USs        948.85 US$         953.18 U1$           73.58 $US$       1,975.61
Yen       113,434.52 Yen       124,717.98 yen      546468.17 Yen      54.884.19 Yen        4.354.07 Yen      113,884.43
__________fuss        53,437.00 jUS$       58,781.00 (15$     24,662.89 I US$    25,27.84 JUSS        3.97624 (1$         3.997



Table :4
PROJECT COST - EOUIPMENT
__  _    _   __    _   _ ,_        _    _   _   _   _    _   _ _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _ -   ..                                                                   n Thousnd)
I  RAD C O N I R A C I                                                   ACTUAL. PO_ _ECt COST
NO          SCOPE OF WORK            PROECT SCHEOULE          ORIGINAL CONTRACT   REJISEO CONTRACT    I_ BAD_                                   PELAOU?IA  11                 GRAND TOTAL
____.___.___.___.___._    StART    COMPLETION I                                                      UNITS        AMOUNT         UNITS       AMOUNT         UNITS       AMOUNT
I ouaysidContaineCm               12-IS01987  2109-1989     uss          5,627.41  USs         5.627.41     2  tS$        5s257.34      3 US$        13.448.35    5 USS          18,73.S
Equivet:                   Equivlet:
(Schedule t)                              30t11*199            Equivalet:           Equvalont:                    Eqtthcont:            OUD       21353-39        OlD         21,353.39
WON      3.219.738. 70 WON     3.219.738.70        WON      3.009.735.33      won                        WON    3.009.3.33
USS         1.051.t0  USt          1.05I.t0        US$           979.74       us5         .              uSs           978.74
2  Rubbet Tylod Ganty CtAe        12-10-987  28-09-1989     usS          5.8688  uSs           5.66888      7 uS$           5.361,58    9 uss        12.S4342    16 uSs          17,90501
22.71 M Spa (Schedule 2)                  26-11-1990           Equivalent:          Equivalent:                   Equalent:                  Equhiaent:                 Equf_vae:
WON      3.694.522.52 WON      3,694,522.52        WON      3.497.981.64      WOlN                       WON      3497,961*64
uss           434.50 uSs            434.50         US$           410.ss       USS         2.507*4        uss        1Z916.40
RP.       74A16.50        AP.         74,416.50
3  Rubbe, Tyted Gantzy Cin        Q2-10.1987  2809-1989     us$          3.061,70 USs          3,061.70     4 USS           2.906,30                U8S                           Z9030
14.00 It san (Schedule 3)                 2s 1-1990            Equivabt:            Equivalet:                    Equivalnt:                                            Equivtalet:
WON      2.0o.406.25 WON       2.0)1,406.25        WON      1.916.25.33                                  WON      t.916,22533    o
uSs           195.85 Uss            195.85         usS            18,58                                  uss             O."56
4  Trtminta Ttacto (Schedule 4)   24s091987   2307-1988     UsS           89925 USS             899.25      ts  1.15         897.41                                   USs          697.41
5  Skelal Tailew (Schedule 52     12.10.987  2704-tS88      US$           t63,37 US$             163.37     15 USS           183.19    SO USt           659.60    65  USS          82Z79
Equivalet:                 Eq*iokd t
UeSS        S1.33        UlSS           51033
AP.      309,575.00       FP.       309,15.90
6  foWd Top toader (Package A)    t646-990   1512-1990      USS          2.384.55  U$          2.3U4.55 5  2   USS          2,13660     1 USS           2861.36    I US$          2,374.96
Forld Sxde Loade                          21t03-1991           Equvalent:           Equivant:                     Equivalent:                Equiaen:                    Equvant:
2t45N1991     YEN        309.260.43 YEN        309.260.43        YEN        2868.93.50       YEN        26290.75       YEN        3113.16425
FP.        8.692.63      tlP.          ,61.53
7  TerminalM Teo (Packag  )       1tS6.1990  2310-1991      USS           293.36 USS            293.36      4 USS            261.02    30 Ut$          1.810.20    34  USt        2.409722
Equivaent:           Equvaent:                     Equivalent:               Equvaset:                   Eqialnt:
ulSS       1.576.96
YEN         3.861.22 YEN          39.B61.39        YEN         35.B75.25      YEN                        YE          35.67525
lP.      493008.00        RP.        49200001.9



Table :4 (continued)
I   O CON HRACT                                       _                  ACTUAL PROJECT COST IN THOUSAND
NO          SCOPE OF WORK            PROJECT SCHEDULE          ORIGINAL CONTRACT   REVISEO CONTfRACT    t_         B                           PELASUHAN 8                    GRAND TOTAL
START     COMPLETION         .                                      UNITS I      AMOUNT         UNITS      AMOUT           UNTS        AMOUNT
8 FIt Deock iaile (Package Cl     t66-t990   *6-12-t 99t    USS           180.90 USS             180.90     14 US$            180.990
Equivaent:           EquivaIet                     Euaet: Equifalet:
USS           95.30 US5              95.30 U$                    95.30                                   US             93S0
flf.      166,931.88  RP.        166,931.88        fP.       16S.931.88                                   ?.       1168,931.88
9  Folfl Fullf't.tift 21Ton                                 US$           342.07 USS             342.07    20 USS            342.07                                   us$           WAY
(Packl DI                                                      Equivaent:           Equvalwnt:                    Equivalt:                                              EquIvlet:
YEN         47,484.17 YEN         47.484.17        YEN         47,484.17                                 YEN         47.44.17
10  Rubber TlyedGanoy Ctane        1800- 1990  09091991      USS          4,936.34  USS         9,92.73     6  USS          9,952.73                                 UsU          9.95273
22,71 M oen (Piket t8           807-t99    13-061992           Equivalet:            Equivaet:                    Equialt:                                               Equvaet:
YEN        545.387.50 YEN       1.090.735.00       YEN       1,09.735.00                                 YEN       1.0.735.00
USS          684.41  USS           1.3688t         USS         tS1t.81                                   US$         1.36i.61
fR.        24,8l05.50 fP.        49.611.00         RP.        49,611.00                                  IIP.        49,011.00
tI Used Rail Mounted Ouaysida Con.                                                                                                       2  US$        3,332.40    2 USS           3.33240   I
wnet ClAno
12  Used Ru8bbe Tytod Gly Cian                                                                                                           4 US$        2t621.63     4  OM           2.621.63
Equlvaent:
Du.        4,163.25
13 Used RubP lyed Ganuy Coane                                                                                                            3 USS         2.507.70     3 USS          2,507.70
TOTAL                                         u _  USS   23.665 82 USS          26.672 2t   -    US          27.479.13    _US          37.t6S.666       USS        64.644.78t
Notes:
Rloo daed 6 Ai 1993
US$1 =I   p 2.074
YenI ts= p. 18 4606
OM I t SP. 1,306.01
LSTO I = rp. 3,17137



TaWle :S
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, CONSUlTANTS ANI) TRAINING
_ _ _ _ _ _  _______________                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(In Thuaaaai4
..tBO CONtRAC1                                                     ACTUAL PfOJECT COST .
NO   NAME Of POfll            SCOPE OF WORX            PROJECT SCHEDUCE    |       ORIGINA            flEvisED          I BA RD              Pi - *1       GRANO TOTAL
--____ _  -_ _-__-_ _ F STAfT  COMPLETION                                                             ,_.
1. TANtUNG PflIOl A. CONSULTANIS
1ICtS. ciw woi               0809-1986    3006-1990  USS        900.79 USS         938.r3 USS         689.86                  Us$        S8
EqWIva4nt         Euvat              Equvaent                           Equvalnt
* PIe-Con,con Servics                                lP.     702,51.00 ftp.    781266.50 fp.    755,054.48                   llp.    756,054.40
- C osuton Supervion Soi*e                          (STO        201.28 LSTG        21.28 tSTO        257.58                  tSIG        257.58
P Po ftstruction sevice"
2) C$ASfob oqusnpnt            12.10-1987   30-11t19S    USS      589.74 USS       1.371.00 USS       1.184.74  US$    3.78535 USS       4530.09
Equivalent        Equiant            EqIvant            Equint          Equval
Rp.     599,458.25 ftp.   1.053.057.28 flp.  95.807.11 flp.   432,132.80  ip.   1.41t7.939.91
tsro       164.89 LSTO        268.22 t.STa       225.58 LST       109.51 LSTG         509
US$         48.56 USS         264.08 USS        225.10 US$              USS         g10
3 f*eaUbdCjftS. GAdMaWPIAW  t16-07-999    16t04-1991  UST       1,314.36 USS       1,314.36 USS       1,210.65 US$      682.77 Us$       1.793.32
AoVbew W Tanjung PuoI Pon                                Equivant           Equivaloet        Equbdont           Equilnt          Equvd_e
Rp.   t.159,641.50  Rp.   t.159.841.50 flp.   1.137,789.00 Flp.   74.83250 Fip    t.922.A21.50
LSTG       427.29 LSTO        427.29 LSTO        387.95 LSTG      133.64  STia      521.5
S TECHNICAt ASSISlANCE
t Genetal Asstance of Ptoecl  014S61991   31-10-1991  USS         t33.19 USS        133.19 USS         124.43                  USS        124.43
Poepaaabon                                               Equivalent         Eqvalent          EquIlnb                             EquIvalht
nP.      16.30t 00 np.      15.301.00 lp.     10.782.00                 lip.      10,782.00
USS        121.74 US$         121.74 USS         119.37                 USS         119.37
2) Vfnanca&I Modxe1tng        07-10-1991   020599t2  U.SS          2914  USS         29'.4  USS         29.14 USS         5.30 USS         34.44
Equivatlnt        Equivalnt          Equivalent         Equivalent      Equivalent
lip.      1.85000 lip.       1,860.00 "P.      1,850.9o Ftp.    11.00.00 lp.     12,s0.00
USS         28.26 US$          28.26 US.$        28.25 tJSS             tlWs         28.25
3) Techncal Assstance          12079 92   M-iZiM   USS             55.00 U.SS        55.00 US5          51.95                  tlSS        51.95
Equivalenl        Equivalent         Equvalent                          EquIvaent
np.       4,750.00 nip.     4.75000  lp.       4.541.00                  lp.       4.541.9*
US$         52.34 USS          52.34 USS         49.91                   usS5        49.91
2.   lELUK BAYUR   A  CONSULTANTS
t) CUS - CIvilwts             04409t986    Apil 93   1.15       2.257.00 USS       2,588.00 US$     2t443.18                   USS       2.443.18
Equlvalanl        EquIvalnt          EquIvaleet                          Equivalent
P*I.-COOnstruOn SoNic.                             Rip.   1,642.972.47  Rp.   2.t63.787.48 Rp.   2.091.736.58                lip.   2.09t,736.58
Constructn S9evsion Servce                         USS         220.32 USS         232.21 US$        205.63                  USS         206.83
Pos Conswucon Sorices                              ConS       1,349.04 CanS      1,423.31 Cane     1.345.95                 CaS        1.345.95



Table: S (conlinue)
_8RD CONTRACT                         _ACTUAL PROJECT COST   t -
NO   IAME OF PORT               SCOPE OF WORK              PROJECT SCiHEDULE            ORIGINAL           REVISED             j 8RD              P* -_             GRD TOTAL
START    COMPLETION_
S  PAoJANG         A  CONSUTANTS
cms - Cdtwoa                    0901-.1Wf      Oct i6    uJES         6410, US$          041.61  US          57.3                     USS U        5097l3
Equi*14m           Equalont            Equwvlnt                              Eqvent
. Pie           SfCe.                                   Ap       052.302 25 Ap.     t#2,302 25 Ap        oft4to 02                   FPp.     54tt416 et
*c Cnown Swien Senlce                                   USS          s099  US.           5090  uSS           20 47                   Us;           30 47
Pm PoC   utCoon Sefence                                ConS         2415s Can4          24U75 COaS          24645                   CW4          2464S
2pFeesnaV %We oUaw PLeA          274it932    21-121992   USS          45500 UtSS          45500 tUSS          43317                   UST          43317
tA  ttee PFaIt Pe                                            EqPMval-nt         Equelene            Elu'vlent                             EquIvaet
Pp       455.17000 Pp.       455, tt00 Ap.       450.62297                  PF        450.i220t
Cans         270 40 Ca-n        27040 ClnS          27040                    CM4          27040
4    PALEMBANG      A  CONSLATAJ4?S
IpCmS.CAIIWeeau                 09441-N?    Oct"be 19  UN             15052 US$          t10764 LSS           16202                   LISS         16302
Oct t9         Eq-ete              Equivalet          Equhalet                              Eqvolent
*   iPSCMOVbucoe Seans" Pp                                       200.C7000 AP        210.95000  Fp.      201.17500                   oP       201.17500
-CMOiai9A S.pCIWMWeMSannce                              00           i002 0G             0002 00             6002                    00           4002
2iteW4.ofanof4;A                 20041-to    2103DtgD        USS       096l3  USS          9903 uSS           0203                    ust           9 026.4
EquiVaent          Equivalnt           Equialn                               Equialn
Fp.       54.019000 AP        5401900 AP.        50.2500                     Ap.       50,25004
OCt        U914101  0D         14181  00           131.1`3                              131.73
S  PONffANAKC      A  CONSUJTAtS
1 CiMS * Ctov Waks              000t19'0'    Feb 91    U5S            7s 806  USIS        740 32 USS          742 3t                    SS         7423?
EqAvaten           Equivabet           Eqciles                               Equklnl
* Pv4CnV5An,4 SI5tt4 Fp                                          553.475f00 Pp       SS.47500  Pp.       500.7239                   "p.      508.72i30
* C     tqoucin S*pftwoos SMC$                          O           006   00 G          07t.44 OG           07.5"                    OG          805 N
. Fou Cnvico Seva
2)Fe     #S4 4S1tWPISA           200Pt-19t2    P-12-1ft92   US$       550"o USS           55000 USS           45947                   M.s3         459.47
Pa-ne aw 40E'tA  ot                                          Equtv"e             Eq4valot4          equ*veant                             EquWalent
FpI      390.68000 Pp        300,87000 Pp.      300.f0200                    Pp       300.00200
_ __________ .   __________________________ --______ ,___                _  tXi          50l2 6  00oa        502 0  00 l         50440 a  _____   _ . . Do00          50446
TOTAL                                        US$         7.t65 20 UN        9.112 42 uS         60.t9204 Us$      4,353.42  Uo       12,7406
.~~~~~S                                                                                     .-         ,0 ,0
US I * Fp tO074 00
Yea I Rp  to 460
UAt tRp 1 30 01
tSTC I * Pp  317137



Table 5 (continued)
DGSC *COMPONENT
NO       PROGRAM                 SCOPE OF WORK           PROJECT SCHEDULE          ORtOINAL CONTRACT   REVISED CONTRACT   ACTUAL PROJECT COST
._________  7START    COMPLETE
1.  Technal Assistance   A. PELABUHAN 11
Pot Operation (Add I + I)    Apr'86      May'88   US$            562.659.17          707,360,18          702,556.92
Equivalent         EquIsalent          Equvalnt
DM            768.160.00          953.370.00          949.020.00
Rp.       253,902,900.00      331,439.60.00       327.202,610,00
Financial Oata Management     Apr '86     Nov'87   US$            466.165.10          46e 165.10          465,167.43
Equivalent         Equivabnt           Equvalent
DM            614,930.00          614,930.00          614,030.00
Rp.       219,691,950.00      219,691,950.00      218,807,424.00
* Equlpment Management          Apr '86     Mar '88   USS           429,635.46          631,366.09          629,602.79
Equivalent         Equivaent           Equvaent
DM            532.710.00          806,170.00          804,670.00
Rp.       243.538,700.00      348.696,390.00      347,015,328.00
* Job & Workdoad Analysis       Feb '86     Ma '88   USS            209,457.26          209,457.26          209,457.26
Equivalont         Equivalent          Equivaent
Rp.       315,310,000.00      315,3t0,000.00      315,310,000.00
IDVT of Personnel Policies 4  Apr '90     Apr '91    USS          290.1 37.63         290,137.63          290,137.63
Regulaaons as kmprneation                                     Equivalent          Equivalent          Equialent
of job analysis study Pt-11                         Rp.        549,975,000.00      549,975,000.00      549,975,000.00
B. DOSC
Cafgo Unizaton                Aug '87     Aug '8V   US$           390,967.36          390,967.36          390,377.46
Equivalent         Equivalen           Equivatent
NG            595,470.00          595,470.00          595,100.00
RP.        197,410,290.00      197.410,290.00      196,623,800.00
- Sector Monitoring & Data      Feb '86     Mar'87   USS            626,531,00          626,531.00          624,835.44
Managenent



Table 5 (continued)
DGSC. COMPONENT
NO7      PROGRAM                  SCOPE OF WORK           PROJECT SCHEDULE           ORIGINAL CoNTRACT   RftVSeDCONTRACT   ACTuAL'PRojECTCOST
START   COMPLETION  __
2.  Tmnkln                 Poet M_   a____                                       US$            139,439.00          155,851.00
Ttainng at WglnIa Uhhnveuy     Jn'86       Feb 16
Training Program fe Penonu t II  Feb86     Sep '87   u1ss         243t.923.00          38936840.78         3.755,914.67
Equidaent           EqVsmt
US$                              2.702.506.00        2,584,617.11
rM                                656,342.00           625,038.00
.  SS                              118,400.00          11,400.00
No                                 80,183.0            78,365.00
Rp.                           1.303,44t,600.00    t.303,347,000.00
Pott Ma"nagnent Course         Sop '86     Sep '91   USS            185,459.80          323,901.17           323,901.17
Oath t a l                                                     Equiiqen             Equian              iEquvaent
Rp.          3,730.000.00        7,460.000.00         7,460.000.00
USS           183,546.00           296,306.00          296,308.00
No                  0.00            44,000.00           44,000.00
Post Graduate Oversoas Trainirg  Sep '90   Aug '92   IJS$         1,433,364.45         1,433,364.45        1,433,364.45
Equivalent          Equvlent            Equivaent
Rp.         61,000,000.00       61,000,000.00        61.00,000.00
US$           246,552.00           246,652.00          246,652.00
NG           2,063.669.80        2,063,669.80         2.063,669.80
Equipment Management Training  Jun'90       Jul '9t    USS          288.188.68          288,188.68          284,928.46
for Perumpel 1,111 nwd IV                                      Equivalent           Equialent           Equivent
Sp.        494,589,543.00      494,589,543.00       407,880.001.00
DM             58,370.00            58,370.00           58,370.00
Wolkshop Envronmental Policy   Nov'92      Dec'92   U$$             189,868.80          16988%8.80           180,786.14
Equtvalent          Equivalnt           Equivolent
Rp.        393,787,910.00      393,787,910.00       372,916,615.00
T 0 T A L             uss           7,643.796.71        9.607,047.50         9,446,852.37



Table: 6
PROJECt WORK EXECUIED - CtM1
WORK NOT IMPLEMENTATED
NO   NAME OF PORt               ORIMNAL SCOPE OF WORK                    PROJECT WORK EXECUTED          COMPARE To THE ORIGtIAt SCOPE                        REASONIN
I  _                          FROM  OAN AGREEMENT                                                   OFWORK
1. TANJUNG PRItOK   a Improvement and eopanion d the             a. Buldkn work.                           Capit drtdging                       At     0tg b iol necesay
eoo_talna lmaintil                         1) Admillstraton Buin: S.t85 m2                                               to de captat dredgt. lhe
2) Workshop etnalon: 480 m2                                                  OdtnV depth of dwnnet (.12 m).
b Oevlonint of addtiona container             3) Ofie centre 97850 m2                                                      basin (110 m) anjt c.jnw 1wt
handlg ad sdtSng rea kt zones              4) Othet buldIn: 188.05 m2                                                    .10 mo) i sufficint
aacet to the olstn teminat
b. Cw wodra
c Construction d a limutetd acces toad        t) Ouay Strengtehlang
linlc.                                      toengh :438,60 m
Width : 26.20m
d. Capit dedging                               Container caerse -
rai track: 436 m
e. Establshento  a tucwkpPark                 2) Contakr Yuad: 41.400 m2
3)Tntckcp.rk  :29.000m2
t  Consbucton of a nat administration         4) Paved aea ndwW
comple.                                     roadworks   : 88 50Qm2                                                                                                a%
2. TELUK aAYUR      a. Recontrruction of uhree quys.             a. PAconaion of esog bernh                               None                                 None
or. 2.3 Jad 4:
b. Construction of a mtn.putpose              ltength :415.75m
tentinal tot conte ad other                 Width : 20.4 m
undzed catgo handng ncudiung a
200 m "to  new betlh we 30 000 m2        b. Construction of New erth
bdckup zoe, an alteratkon and               ) Brth or. 5:
mnoderizon of working aeas and              * Length: 114.5 m
trait stds                                  *Width : 26 m
2Bth nr. :
C. ConsbUCton O a aXftlputpose t*. tength 107.5 m
*Widt  : 286t
d. Capta dredging
c. Renovation of aheds n. 102.103.
a lioptovenent d road bns                     and 104.
d Construction d ConInt  ftelreght
Station (Shednr. 205) tO5x60m
e Harbour basin & dchnnel dredgn and
disposl = 700.000 m3.



labio 6 (tcontinued
WORK NOT IMPLEMENTATED
NO   NAME OF PORT               ORIGINAL SCOPIE OF WORK                  PROJECT WORK EXECUTED           COMPARE TO THE ORtGINAL SCOPE                       REASONINC
FROM tOAN AGREEMENT                                                    OF WORK                                  ._._          .,_-_ ._          .,
t. Reclamatbn wotk:
-Atea A: 20.462m2
Vol and tiit: 145s,80 n3
-Area ft:15,546 tn2
Vol sand ill: 292.600 mt
. PavIng and toad wo8l 64.1 16.70 m2
h. Fencing  847 m
1. Ortanae  3.tS3,66 m
i. Watwr dIstibution System
k. Electkical plant end Instalbaton
3. PA NJA NG        a. Dev_topme o oabout 45000 m2 o aw          a. Malne Wois                                             None                                None
atea behind nw quays awn alteration        1) DIbdoing wk. vol  78.972 tn3
and todenason f osn workong                2) Construction of ew whaf:
areasa  transit as.                         length 106.5 n6, aea 4.060 m2
3) Coveing 4 gap's : 4355 m2
b Construction at a mult purpose freight
stUaon                                   b. Non Marine Works
1) Constructon o conaidnet  elgMt
c  Caital dredging                             station : 7.200 m2
2) New pavement work : 64245 m2
3) Overlay hoimli of exh.ting
pavement: 29.024 m2
43 Drainage and storm sewer
syteM: 2.656mn
5) Walem supply work: 2.015 m'
6) fencing: 674 m2
7) Electica wotks
4  PAtEMBANG        a. Construction of nuli-purpose terminal     a. 8uimlng      3t.33 m2                  a. Conshclion d now elght            a. The average shed ocean  ratio
f a ne* freight station with 60.000 m2   b. Road work     5.850 m2                   station                              is still low  wound 27% ed the
dl and tot rbadwp area for cargo         c. Open Storage: 36.000 m2                                                       cargo distribuion tess to go
handling and temodeling of an existing   d. Water distrbution and electrical        b. Basin tot service boat             directly trom trucks to ship an
go down.                                   wor,k                                                                          vime Vers



Table: ff (contiIIoed)
WORK NOT IMPLEMENTATED
NO   NAME OF PORT               ORIGINAL SCOPE OF WORK                   PROJECT WORK EXECUTED          COMPARE TO THF  ORIGINAL SCOPE                      REASONING
.___________         FROM tOAN AGREEMENT              ._.___.                               OF WORK                _
b Developnent of a basin for serwice                                                                                       b.h In  tah ta  tb ocaon of
bzoaft.                                                                                                                   senrice,boat basin is tM
su.   ficnt In tb eaSt dd of
to,pott
S.  PONTIANAK         . Rehabstlaltdon of two bentlh and         a Otedging, volue: 38.000 m3                              None                                Non"
coAslucton of a new berth abotit 100 m   b. Erwork    : I6 000 m3
WoVg                                     c. Construction of quay nt.04
length :OO m
b Cornstuct,on dt t&o newv ranstut sheds,      vdth  : 36 m
d. Construction of serwice boat jetty
containet and unitized cargo handling      : 56 m
e. Costncton o shed nr.02: 1.750 m2
c Ajiseauon and mtodnenizaton of              and shed nr.05 2 600 m2
exssting work areas and bansit sheds     t. Rosd wotks and open slotage area
: t7.000m2
d Constution of a service boat jetty.       g. New ancilary building
h. UtWiies and services00



Table 7
PROJECT EQUIPMENT
WORLD BANK STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                   PROJECT ACTUAL PROCUREMENT
NO.  NAME OF PORT   TYPE OF EQUIPMENT  OUANTITY  TYPE OF EQUIPMENT             QUANTIT (UNITS)
____________ -____________ _ .(UNITS)                                    ISRO     Pl-Il  TOTAL
I TANJUNG PFIOK   Contne Crane                3     Container Crane          2        3       5
Wwd-spar Trenstainers     a     Wide-span Transair      13       9       22
Smal-span Transtaln      10     Small-span Tratainems    4                4
Tradors                  21     Trators                 15      30       45
Chassis                  30     Chassis                 15      50       65
Workshop Equpment
Forkldt Top Loader      3      . 1       4
Fokl Side Loader        2                2
Forklt Fu Free Lit 2t  20               20
Used Conbiner Crane              2       2
Used rTG Crane                   7       7
2 TELUK SAYUR       Motie Crane               1
FLTs. 36 t               2
Tractors                  4     Tractors                 2                2
Chassis                  12     Chassis                  8                8
Spares
Workshop Equipment
3 PANJANG           Mobile Crane              1
FLTs. 36 t                1
Tracors                   2     Tractors                 2                2
Chasss                   S      Chassis                  6                6
Spares
Workshop Equipment
Forklift Top Loader     1                1
4 PALEMBANG         Mobile Crane              1
FLTs. 36 t            '  2
FLTs. 3 t                6
FLTs. t.5 t              8
Tractors                  4
Chassis                  12
Spares
Workshop Equipment
Forklift Top Loader     1                1
S PONTIANAK         Mobile Crano              1
FLTs. 3 t                2
FLTs, 5 e                2
Tractors                 2
Chassis                  4
Sparos
Workshop Equipment



40
Table :8
PORT TRAFFIC DATA  - PROJECT PORTS
____________________  ________   ________  __ .  (000 Tons)
CARGO HANDUNG            TARGET    ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUAL
1 990      1990        1991        1992
Tanjung Priok
Total Cargo                      17,489      17,947      18,182      21,911
Container                         4,103       5,690       6,590       8,287
Teluk Bayur
Total Cargo                         878       1,461       1,437       1,670
Container                           251           6           2           6
Panjang
Total Cargo                       1,138       2,045       1,747       2,083
Container                           192         134         153         197
Palembang
Total Cargo                         702         693         776         799
Container                           190          58         132         171
Pontianak
Total Cargo                         415       1,073         835         825
Container                            30           5           5          22
1. Tanjung Priok:
a. Total cargo not including oil, but includes special wharves such as Bogasari
b. Container cargo is total including boxes unloaded at general cargo berths
2. Pontianak cargo is through public pon whiarves only. and excludes loading point,
mid stream and special wharf.



41
Table: g
PORT TRAFFIC DATA * TANJUNG PRIOK
_  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992
Ship Calls (Units)
Oceangoing                 1,777   1,632   2,471   2,719   2,925   2,215
Container                    753    786    848    961   1,355   1,838
Inter Island               3,642   3,578   3,687   4,474   4,942   5,705
Tanker                       400    414    469    466    487    507
Offshore Ships             1,509   2,166   2,649   2.510   2,396   2,094
Total  8,081   8,576  10,124  11,130  12,105  12,359
Caroo Handlino (000 tons)
Export                     3,133   4,030   5,540   4,717   3,891   5.933
Import                     5,877   6,471   7,111   8,268   9,295  10,570
9,010  10,501  12651  12,985  13,186  16,503
Inter Island - Loading     1,218   1,448   1,441   1,777   1,959   2,366
Unloading                  1,892   2,034   2,457   3,185   3,037   3,042
3,110   3,482   3,898   4,962   4,996   5,408
Total  12,120  13,983  16,549  17,947  18.182  21,911
Oil Discharged (000 tons)  4.565   4,769   4,962   5,909   6,549   7,089
Containers
( 000 TEU )                 274    336    443    643    736    866
(000 Tons)                 2,750   3,401   4,283   5,690   6.590   8,287
1. Container Ship Calls Is number of ships calling at container terminal only.
Z Cargo handling' includes containers



Table: 10
OPERATIONAL DATA
NO      INDI!:ATOR          EXPLANATION            PORT         1990 ( TARET)           1990 (ACTUAL           199t (ACTUAL            i992 IACT
GEN.CARGO CONTAINER GEN.CARGO CONTAINER GEN.CARGO CONTAINER GEN.CARGO CONTAINER
1          2                     3                  4           5 _                     7           8          9           10          it         12
a) Throughput pet    Total Tonnage/TEU handled  Tanjung Priok     350         300         336         288        336         320         384         304
Ship per sh       dnved by numbet of shits  Telutk Bayur       300         120        288                     272          84        336          84
(Tons/TEUL       wotded                   Paniang              300        120         368                     272         192        288         192
Pbsembang           300         120         336                    288         112         288        112
Pontianak           300         120         336                    320                     240
b) Labor poductivy   Tdal tonslTEU handled    Tanjung Priok        18          25          21                     21                      24
(Tons/TEU per Net  dhiMd by total gang time   Teluk 8ayur     13.5          10         18           7          17           7         21           7
Gang Hour)        (tnctudng oveeie) I"$    Panjang            13.5          10         23          12          17          12          17         14
stoppage not atbib4ed to   Palembang        13.5          10         18          12          18          8          18           8
dte gsng (e.g. weathe.  Pontianak           13.5         10          21                      20      .              20
Cargoe4quipment not aval-
lable. te) 
cl Equipnwt produc.  Total tons/TEU handled   Tanjung Priok        30          25                      22      .              23                      25
"  tonsjTEU       divided by shift + overtime   Teuk Bayur      25          10      .           .           .
per hour)         hours less stoppages not   Panjang            25          10            .           .
anrbbuted to the equipmnt  Palembang          25          10
or its operations (a.g.  Pontianak            25         10       .           .                      .
wesater cargo not aveilable
etc)
d) Average De" time  TonlTEUIdays in storage    Tanjung Priok       5          6.5          3          12          9          11                     10
(days)            dided by total tonsEUs   TdIuk avur            6          6           4                       4                      4
stored                  Panpng                 6          8           8           9          10          9           B           7
Palembang             6           8          15         17          14          14          16         1 7
Pontianak             6           8        5.43       16.36          5        15.34       3.75       15.61



Table: 10 (contIUed)
NO     INDICATOR            EXPLANATION            PORT          1990 TARGET)            1990 ACTUAL)            1991 (ACT          {   1992(CTUAL|
___________     GEN.CARGO CONTAINER GEN.CARKGO CONTANER GEN.CARGO CONTAINER GEN.CARGO CONTANER
1          2                     3                  4            5           a           7           a           9           tO         11          12
e) Equipment avelai   Equipment houms Suppried   Tanjung PrkI       85S         95'         85%         87f        63        9-            74          94
billy r%age)      dhvdod by equipmt hou   Teluk iaytur          85          951                                                         699
requested               Panjmag               P           95%      ..0
Palembang            85          95       .                                                 63
Ponianak             85          95       .
0 Average ship wait   Totalcme betwein arrtval   Tarnung Prlok       5           2           9           8           7          6           7           6
ng time (ours)    and bon"  aot I shkps    ToeAk Bayur            5           5          13                       8                      7
dMded by rnmber 01 ships  Poang               20          12          25                      21       .              13
berthed                 Palembang              5           5          12                      12       .              11
Pontianak            20           12         28                      23       .1
ig  Average serince   Totat aime ours) at benh    Tarung Prhok      30          18          64          31          72          21          6S          19
im  (hou) fsncluding berthing end un.  Teluk Bayur               45          24          80                      70                      70
bert"ienl of at ships    Pjang                45          24          65       .              56                      56
divided by number o ships  Palembang          45          24          29                      25       .              26
Pontianak            45          24          65                      22       .              21
h) Berth oocupancy    Avetago service time (days)  Tanjung Prbk     80S         50S         67?        64          54          47K         628         66
(%a"e)            muleplied by tunber of   Toluk Payur          80          50S         58S      .              54       .              57
ships. divided by number of Paniang           W           50S        72S       .             64        .             64
betths tines the operabing   Palembang        80S         50          401      .              53       .             48
days                     Pontianak            80          507         84       .8111                                 76S
i) Berth productivity   Totat tonstEU handled at   Tan jung Priok  1200      2500        2240          582       2178         526        1851         691
ItonsfTEU per     berth per year divided by    Teluk Bayur     1000        1100       2484                    2578                    2510
meler per year)   berh length inmeten      Panjang             1000        1100        2030       .            1751                    1801      -
Palembang          1000        1100         978                    1273       .            1305
Pontianak           1000        750         1193                   1128                    1095



4It
Table: 11
PONT EFFICIENCY INDICATORS . TANJUNG PRIOK
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
1. ShIg Wagina time (hours)
Oceangoing                    10        9        10         9         7         7
Container                     4         S         6         8         6         6
InterIsland                   5         5         6         8         6         8
Tanker                       33        21        26        26        37        51
* Berth Service Time (hours)
Ocenoing                     59        54        74        64        72        65
Containr                      1 1       1        18        31        21        19
Interlstand                  70        70        71        74        77        60
Tanker                        44        45       43        43        44        44
3. Tum Round rime
Oceangoing                   69        63        84        73        79        72
Containr                      15       23        24        39        27        25
Inter Island                 75        75        77        82        83        68
Tanker                        77       66        69        69        81        95
4. Tonnace Per Ship
Oceangoing                 1,874     1,942     Z323      1,989     2.006     2,056
Irnter Islnd               1,093     1,179     1,370     1,607     1.395     1,518
5. Gana Per ShiP
Oceangoing                    2         2         2         3         3         3
Inter Island                  2         2         2         2         2         2
6. Berth Occupancy (%)
.C. Whad                     46    ,  47         66        67        54        62
Container Berth              35        41        44        64        59        55
OilJQtty                      76       78        66        59        65        78
Buoys                        70        56        59        67        70        44
7. Shed Occupancm (%)
Trarsit Storage               37        42       40        47        42        43
Open Storage                 32        39        38        45        46        39



45
Table: 12
REVIEW OF LOAN COVENANTS
AQREEMENT           DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT               CURRENT COVENANT
SECTION                                                 STATUS DESCRIPnON
CAN
ART. 301 (B)   SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT W/ PERUMPEL II  IN COMPLIANCE
ART. 4.02   CONTINUE TO CARRY OUT ITS ACTION PROGRAM   IN COMPUANCE
FOR IMPROVING PROVISION OF PORT AND SHIPPING
SEFRMCES.
ART. 6.01   SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENt WITH PERUMPEL   IN COMPLIANCE
EXECUTED.
PA
ART. 2.0 (B)   PERUMPELTO TAKE ALL NECESSARY ACTIONS TO   REQUIRED ACTION TAKEN. HOWEVER
ACHEVE TARGETS SET OUT IN SCHEDULE 2. COM-  TARGETS PARTIALLY ACHEIVED
PUTE PORT EFFICIENCY INDICATORS SEMI ANNU-
ALLY.
ART. 2.06.    PERUMPEL SHALL CARRY OUr TRAINING PROGRAMS IN COMPLIANCE
IN PART C.
ART. 4.02   SHALL OEVELOPE ADJUSTED ACCOUNTING SYSTEM; DONE
INTRODUCE SYSTEM BY 07101/86; USE SYSTEM FOR
FISCAL YEAR ENDING 12V31/86 AND THERE AFTER.
ART. 4.03.    BY 1i231t86. REVALUE ASSETS AND AMOUNT OF    COMPLED
ACCUMULATEO DEPRECIATION; THEREAFTER RE-
VALUE SUCH ASSETS PERIODICALLY
ART. 4.04 (A)   FOR EACH FISCAL YEAR AFTER THE FISCAL YEAR   IN COMPLIANCE
ENDING 12131186. MAINTAIN RATIO OF TOTAL WOR.
KtNG EXPENSES TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES NOT
HIGHER THAN 80%.
ART. 4.04 ()   RATIO TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES!TO TOTAL OPERA- (1). (2) AND (3) IN COMPLIANCE,
TING REVENUES OF EACH PROJECT PORT SHALL EE  (4) ALMOST IN COMPLIANCE (90%)
1) TANJUNG PRIOK: NO GREATHER THAN 70%  (5) IN 1992 IN COMPLIANCE (71.`19%)
2) TELUK BAYUR: NO GREATHE'q THAN 75% BY
12J31/90 AND THEREAFTER
3) PANJANG: NO GREATHER THAN 80% BY 12/31/90
AND THEREAFTER.
4) PALEMBANG: NO GREATHER THAN 80% BY
12131190 AND THEREAFTER
5) PONTtANAK: NO GREATHER THAN 75% BY
12131/90 AND THEREAFRER
ART. 4.05 (A)   PERUMPEL NOT TO INCUR DEST UNLESS NET REVE- IN COMPLIANCE
NUE FOR BY IMMEOIATELLY PRECEDING OR 12hMO0
PERIOD ENDED PRIOR SHALL BE AT LEAST 1.5
TIME MAXIMUM OEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
ART. 4.06 (A)   BY 03131 IN EACH BY PERUMPEL (ON BASIS OF  TANJUNG PRIOK. PANJANG ANO
FORECASTS) REVIEW WHETHER FT WOULD MEET    PELEMBANG EXPECTED TO BE COM-
THE REQUIREMENT IN 4.04 ANO 4.05 IN RESPECT OF  PLIANCE. TELUK BAYUR ANO PONTIANAK
SUCH YEAR AND NEXT YEAR                WILL NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLY.
ART. 4.06 (B)  IF REVIEW SHOWS PERUMPEL WOULD NOT MEET   IN COMPLIANCE. PERUMPEL II TAKING
REQUIREMENT (PER 4.06 (A) THEN IT WILL PROMETLY ALL MEASURES NECESSARY TO MEET
TAKE ALL MEASURES TO MEET REOUIREMENTS.    REQUIREMENT.



46
Tabl 13
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT . SUMMARY
(Rp. tMLUON)
PERUMPEL II
_ _ (CONSOlIDATED)__        _ _  _  __ _ _ _    __   _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _
NO.      DESQCRIPTION        1987        1988        1989         1990        1991      NOV.1992
I Revenue                 60,832.20    73,681t.60    96,246.10   141,642.20   198,78.90   233,725.30
2 Working Expenses        48.386.60    49,509.70    55,888.60    75,455.10    89,896.70    99,957.70
3 Depreocon Epenses        14,354.50    13,370.60    14,265.30    17,470.40    22.78240    36.144.50
4 intt Expense               .           .           3,888.3     4,655.9     6,670.9      7,729.3
S Total Operting Expenses    62.741.10    62,880.30    74,042.20    97,581.40   119,350.00   143,831.50
(2+3+4)
Working Ratio %
* Achbeved (2:1)           79.54       67.19       58.07       5327         4522       42.77
- LAIPA Target             80.00       80.00       80.00       80.00        80.00       80.00
Operatng Ratio %
-Achieved (5:1)           103.14       85.34       76.93       68.89        60.04       61.54
- SAR Target               96.00       97.00   ,   98.00       98.00        97.00       95.60
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT
(Rp. MIWON)
TANJUNG PRIOK
(INCLUDED CONTAINER TERMINAL) 
NO.      OESCRIPTION         1987        1968         1989        1990        1991      NOV.1992
I Revenue                 46.507.50    56.706.30    76.602.80    82,005.0   154,849.10   183,538.50
2 Working Expenses         30,953.20    30,794.60    33,430.60    37,899.30    48.692.60    51,233.40
3 Deprcton Expenses         7.802.40    6,861.10    7.550.10    9.470.70    11,411.70    19.490.10
4 Inteest Expense            .                       2,399.7     2.873.5     4,117.0     4,770.3
5 Total Operating Expenses    38,755.60    37,655.70    43,380.40    50,243.50    64.221.30    75,493.80
(2+3+4)
Working Ratio %
- Achieved (2:1)           66.56       54.31       43.64       46.22        31.45       27.91
- LAPA Target              70.00       70.00       70.00       70.00        70.00       70.00
Operating Ratio %
- Achieved (5: 1)          83.33       66.40       56.63       61.27        41.47       41.13
_     SAR Target           86.20       86.00       86.30       85.00        83.00       82.00
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT
(Rp. MILUON)
TELUK BAYUR
NO.      DESCRIPTION         1987        1988         1989        1990        1991      NOV.1992
1 Rovenuo                  2,117.10    2,249.90     2,746.10    2.684.50    3.978.80    4,287.40
2 Working Expenses          2.463.00    2.049.90    1.166820    1.129.50    1.408.90     1.702.20
3 Doprocatiaon Expenses      658.20      489.70      666.20      $71.90     1,251.60    3,558.50
4 Intorost Exponse           .                       1.045.7     1.252.2     1,794.1     2,078.8
5 Total Operabng Expenses   3.121.20    2.5W9.60    2,878.10    2.953.60    4,454.60    7.339.50
(2+3+4)
Working Ratio %
* Achieved (2: 1)         t6.34        91.11       42.47       42.07        35.41       39.70
- LAIPA Target            102.00       93.00       84.00        75.00       75.00       75.00
Operating Ratio %
-Achieved(5:1)            147.43      112.88      104.81       110.02      111.96      171.19
- SAR Target              121.18      126.60t     128.70       117.30      119.20      115.10



47
Table: 13 (eontnue
COMPARATNE INCOME STATEMENT
(Rp. MILUON}
PANJANG
NO.      DESCRIPTION         1987        1986                     1990        1991      NOV.1992
I Revenue                  2,51820     3,505.70     4.422.60    6.022.60    6,914.30    7.884.30
2 Wag Eens                  1,81.3      2.1820      2,572.70    3.268,70    3.557.30    3,958.80
3 Oepreem  Expenses         1,111.80    1,160.50    1,450.30    1,486.90    2.187.50     2,312.20
4 Int  Expense                                        288.9       274.1       392.7        455.0
5 TOal Optng Expenses    2.999.10       3.678.70    4,311.90    5.029.70    6,137.50    6,726.00
(2+3+4)
Woring RAto %
Achieed (2- 1)            74.95       71.83       58.17       54.27        51.45       50.21
* LA/PA Target             89.00       8(.C=      83.00       80.00        80.00       80.00
OpeatIng Rao %
-Acheved (5: 1)           119.10      104.93       97.50       83.51        88.77       85.31
_    SAR Targt            116.00      115.60       116.10      115.90      114.00      110.90
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT
(Rp. MILLION)
PALEMBANG
NO.      OESCRIPTION         1987        1986         1989        1990        1991      NOV.1992
1 Revenue                  3.470.60    3.401.80     3.384.90    3,445.80    5.489.70    6.664.40
2 WorlIng Expenses         4.015.90     3.370.40    3.454.60    3.002.50    5,342.39     5.997t20
3 Deprecinton Expenses       S72.10      572.20      804.30      704.60       757.10     1.598.70
4 Intarest Expense           .           .             70.1        84.0        120.3       139.4
S Total Opeating Expenses    4.588.00   3,942.60    4.329.00    3.791.10    6,219.79     7.735.30
(2+3+4)
Working Rato %
*Achieved (2: 1)          115.71       99.08      102.06       87.14        97.32       89.99
LAIPA Target             119.00      106.00       93.00       80.00        80.00       80.00
Operating Ratio %
- Achieved (5: 1)         132,20      115.90      127.89       110.02      113.30      116.07
- SAR Target              143.10      127.40      110.90       97.20        96.30       95.00
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATE4ENT
(Rp. MILLION)
PONT'ANAK
NO.      DESCRIPTION         1987        1986         1989        1990        1991      NOV.1992
1 Revenue                    834.80      942.90      974.10     1,105.30    Z021.90     2,556.10
2 Working Expenses          1.885.40    1,101.60     947.70      920.00     1,689.10     1,819.70
3 Dopreciation Exponses      275.10      355.40      487.00      436.40       781.60      790.30
4 Interet Expense            .           .            143.8        172.2      246.7        285.8
S Total Oporating Exponsos    2.160.50  1,457.00    1,434.70    t,356.40    2,470.70    2.610.00
(2+3+4)
Working Ratio %
-Achioved (2: 1)          225.85      116.83       97.29       83.24       83.54        71.19
- LAIPA Target            120.00       99.40       85.60        75.00       75.00       75.00
Operattng Ratio %
Achieved IS: 1)          258.80      154.52      147.28      122.72       122.20      102.11
TSA  igeTar              141.10      143.80       119.20      98.90       98.10        95.80



48
Ta4bl: 14
COMPARATIE SALANCE OSEt- SUMWAFW
PGUUEI a
NO   UDECPPTION             1947        1066         1069        100          tOOl      NOV. 1002
(1)  .Cosh&d4pOSJW      ~~~~51,06.6  61106.3     86351,1      516l46       02.&&6?    107.4317
It5  *OlZwt                      02t .0      25..         ZJS   Z       ae           uo 2 7   tO
2  *oW                        22.7J4  322g12Z3                      36 _ 117to  4IM.3        4&=&
Mf  ThaCtrtft+i21                74.700      at.52       116.604    116.760       t..          IS&O"t2
(4)      SdUlA./P44             240w 701.4    240.2m1    3X040    336.559.6    37480.7    u         . t I
5tquomsflIAss                    33.Xt6      41.647.2  S 4,07.0        70163.o    02.o0s1   l67.46
(a)  o0w                         15,67.8      1.6570      23.6        2.911.       29.7ft6.2   34.263.3
(7) o  Flxed 14+Sn             2W0.097.6    29.437.0    40&1016    433.554       12.&2.7    666,7S0
(6)  an Ac.. .ano                fam?        74,550.2     88203.0     12.547.3    12196.1     145.67.6
N) ot PbAd u     t              2270061     066.         320311.6    33t.007.0    40620s 6    52052.0
0)mtamaa It Pteguf.              1460.?    40.171.0       21.0t. 20 1   1.68       60.504       17,4741
1 ) Oto Cw,    1                  3336.2       t07?.       2.01.0      2a00.-9      6.02        7,5
TaWIWAsatg3.e0*lll   31647.0    3S563010    462,512.1    514.61.2 I 1S1831.9    71.240.J
(1UABIUTI4EQ&EUITY
(12  TowComUIt                   15.6042       .3310      ts.72s.s    34155.3      59.2533    3e154J
(13) Tow LW4.Ti at               21267.0      52.749.7    75.2076      81.,566     9S.7t3 7    141.S22e
(14) TOWalUa4*a(12.131           390161.2     62.142.7     003.s4    IS.5721.4    1.967.0    225077.9
(I51 To ta Edu &                2606658t   297.1614    371 5767    38&S.t08    465.66 9    476.162,6
Totlt Uabi4i * a 6QgtY~
14+151                    3tt1.6410    35# 30 t    4625121    514691.2    616.831.9    70i.240.
(to) Oe8qwtE   Ral (13:15)        7193       t15          lt68         166          S1M5       22r17
(17) Pwr4 oia bo. tans             1.391.0    20,030.6    29.321.2     55.025.0    1"4,746*    104 t794
(15) Rum on NM Flxd Ata (%
L    I,t?u)1 T&v It?                   0.6          69          92          1e6         216         20  I0
COMPAAATrvE aALANCE SNEEr - su5.WtARf
(Re. MIWt4
TANJUNG P1OIK
iNUOEO COWNTAINE TERM_INAU
No         OEscpIP7OMN            1967      ,s104          1969        1990    *w.            NOV tw02
Cww*-at
(1)  .caal,6d*,os.               23.31S.1     36.051?     4300919      3t967       W0.AS3       t6.6t1 I
(2  *-odw                        15.5245      17.?596     21.550       31 594      t0t915s      5.266.s
totr C flt tt 2)                 3662.6       53.0124     646.426     695=3         o 00788     52.096 
(4v  .      _wl4m_e)cI          Itt 11575.0    1og.74    134.2377    1416667    10o1.54       177.3616 
(s)  EqulA'._Vno%                21.650.7    2 6.61ts     30.6636     56.5646      1U4t 34    1s6.7n20
m    Sa                           7.t 211     ? 2617      10.6474      12.3707      8291.5      15.65o0
(7)  TatmlFIzs%d4*36)            140.5530 e   4537,12  164 66s a    210622        126309    362,0   6
(6) t"AMA6C0U5tMLO               33.0666      366636      46s3643     54t0200      43.1240 7o  14
P) Nat FIe  hAct  41            lod.s4 2    1o5 406 4    1364465    156.622 2       3.165 7    263-975 2
It Cots  I           Ptas           as5          170       35264       31.4460     26.2771      142020
(It) ft afNoflueW"sC.lasata        1437       2.66t 1      1.0101 o4o               1.10 a      3.04l I
to,WINItAss39.10.ttO*       143t.24 0    1616004    206=000    2531734 *      6 13175t    3335043  
aU  9AS   & EouITV
(12) TOW Cunwtmy UO.t44" t                    0.3204      12*203     25.211*       23J01?2     Id894 5
(131 Towwt t-Ttm Oe.                5166|       47 36     21 16 5I   356466           1620     3066874
14)        1 toWUt                  2.5o2#I3l  11,20 a 06030  300372    do06O04 -23300 t        47,781 t
(I5) TowEowIu,                   1344632     152 007 3   1466026      19- 6l37    130o274    30,1S444
Tout U--* A Eq.ui
14.15)                     1   7240    ttt 0004    2060500    257 741 t    16 3275    3550463 3
it6) P101 1106 ttfomu we.4517                 24 65 5      33279 7     37.66?      1002.2 I    1 12.000.3
(p7l P) Aaan NetF dtmed Assa
_  n.b.1'alo(17s                  70         23S          240         240         1205         34



49
Taw 14 (
CUPARATVW UALAQdcO      M  s~urSmmARY
fi MWAO          9
TaLUKOAVUR
NO.        oescFipIION            19ar        1se9                            -a
(1)  .Co    d &OP@UW                402         5as        1.o4         1,477.6      790          249
* 0*cff                            369M0        461         6041         1`45.3      961.4 9_9.2
(3) To0C0        1(1 _2)            777.1      1,070.0     1.67s    2223,2            5754      1t.24&1
(4)  IW4.dJ        5              9,424*      6,6         2.203       26243.6    2M6S          74,490.3
)  Sqw0m.uhom4                    1.58         1a=5        1,t143      1.26.        1.7t04      1710.4
0)  0_242                           6616        6.161        0562        56.0       '0075       112397
M7)  rZ P    d (4S.1              16361       108S54      81310.0     20.463       29.0065      79.3213
0) Lou Aec 0esoo.i               .1146.4      3.*61        16664       4.960        0 63"6   e .Sez7
(/4  NM f Mo4  (74)               6491.7      ? eJ        124          235.53      28Z6a7      -70.75t
Ila C) Oogls1ssU11inPnoh               0                      0.0 a0o                 2"6          63.6
(III  h 0 NoR Csff maf               o.0          32          13          73.J       t1S5          1.7
TOWN"AM133-+3.10i.11)        9266. 8  6?115          20.1522      25.0        247          72,0661.0
1  UAunMs& aOU(Y
t11) to0In5UM2                      1709        2540        010.0      1,274.0       201.         294?
tI3 r TOW?                                       sre       5,bf  Ila$  OK  s.ees 5o o               Q
(131 Taw Lo,o.T.tm0.W                 121        510       56660       9.6095,         00           0.0
{54   r    _z12+g       1-    ,         305.6      647.57f     10.60          201 0       2947t 
(.141 Tow.uWablib(12.13             172.1 _________6us                               2a-6         2"
151 Tr wEa       a                &*169.096.  8.40        13675.86    14.9t1.5     24 50s       71,S71.3
TOW Usftw I6 lousyW
(14s151                     1926e        6715.5      201522      2579.0o    24 7051       7z106.
(16) Pist (l4 befo o.)                              9)       (t76)    11.043.9        (t.50)    (.333a1)
( 17) Rturm on Not tmd Aut 
(befoe ea ft7.           _- 3 -_   (6.6                   171T        (7291                    ( 7
COMPoAT BNE       CE swr . summARy
PAN JANG
NO.       O°CS TO         1_         7      1 1966         *se9         90          1991      NOV is92
(11  .Cshad.os                    1,S.160.      ss  t.4     .7723      2.057        2.0695        7652
(2)  *.00 _4      _427.4                        404 -       M3           757 5      14509         645.6
3)   oCsren7I.21                  1.6061       1,71.0      2.54 ? 6    3645         3so03    1_6110
( LandAkuu eadiM                 20.,725     20.9s2z      3s.034      34.6873      3*.39s3    3t.49
(5)  Equonvw,see                  2.729       a.26         40164       4.021 t      5.3664      5.9100
(a)  P                            1.2755       .363        Z.192 5     2.37 1       2.639       29
(7)  Tow Plead (4._23.3                       26.0553     40.)122     41.01 2      43.22?7      45004'
)fm AC. O6fffI.noa                3906.        9.0073   e       a60    6346 7      1*164        120te t7
0 - N ttese ;s  47               207.965     2.2 6        34.04t  *   32.7Tt60   32.19 5        32.067t
(19) Canucso" inPloqts                00         4t 1        926          233        636            05
fl 1 Chet NotC CmW u _               00        2t4 6          0 0          0 0         0 0          00
T4WudtIAS*4%3oss.    ll     22.4076     23264 r     30667 9      3tt 6h 3-    36t26 5     34.0e 2
I UA8UI1IS & EOUITY
(12) TOl.CuaUUhmm                   2177        2t13       t.0326         L tI1       73t 404
(13) ?oLaOn@ tm                 _   520           00       6,t32S       7.5705         00   _       0O
(t ottnu2.l3_  2705                             2153       a51tsI      6326 e3 6a                 464
{Taw tLow  a        _4         22.13J. t   22 §00tt 4    M=ttt a   -2tt04 a      :35w        3't 13_Yt.
tt * t51                    22.40 tO d   # te 7      30 879 7    3ttU 3TJ     3e 2Us 5    34 t02
Prom ofet" bhttt t4      "       (435t )   t   7t-5        (M 21        WSt 5 .0 t              Onge
(IS) 706(matm FbtA-*-
_ TeNtl.6)                      (al.l        (04)        call          25          33           17



50
Tab*: Is 14(096546
COMPARATIV  9ALAN      SHEET - SUMMARY
tpp it
PALEMSANG
No.        OESCRJPT1ON            i9s7        tt6 sS 1990                           19I NOV1992
1  ASSEI                                                     
Cufisell
(1)   Cash & d.Qb                 1.6926       z106.4      2W1.t        2.5613       776.6        468,2
Z)    oIl7w                         O           486.2       535-s         M s5      1.075.'       699.9
(3) Toal Cuftud :1 *.520.4                     2,6o03s     2.770.0      3.*496                   I *r      .368.1
FPkd:
(4)  Ld9uuin9I-4tb"               6.295.       6.2714     t06.2    tl.070.5        1 .6e       T1.329.2
(5)  iquivmueas-al _937.                       2.454.3     1371.5 2S371.5           &480.3       1377.1
(6)  a,r                            651.5       674s5      16.96.       1s00        16.523       1.764,2
(7)  TeW fitg 44.6?                .0_.t9os  1K613        14,61.8      15.1110     t6.4Q4       15,490.5
(6) Len A       os. Ortue8ol      1313W7       3.726-4     4 38ss0     0.69.        5.960to      5.517.0
(9) Net Food Aita (7.4    -        766.2       7,67sa     10.474.      10.021.9    10447.4       9.973.
(10) C*nA&l     in Plog'a            15.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0o.          0.0
(I1) OwNOR C~                         0.0         0.4      1133.1        04.9        65.7         4197
TotW Not 4ss0W 3.9+10. 11)    I1.303.6    10,479.7    143779      1429t.4     12.50.1      1 761.4
LL UAEIES & EOUItY
(121 ToW Cuwait LUbday              51ao        3665         445.7       32.2        377.5        390.S
n3  TotwwkTOemo                      02           0 1      2.472.3     2.434           ao0          00 
(t4 Total 16       (12 * t3l        5162        366.6      2918.1       2.7857        3775        390.S
(15) TOQt                        t107854      101t31      1t.t  a8     1 506.e     12.572.6      1.390.9
Toa L t   Eqwy                                                                 -
(14.151                     113036      10.47g.?     143n79       142914      129501 1761.4
(161  Pufit Qo aa efo w a929.)                  (36 1)      )571.1)       1412        (727 0)    (1.014.2)
(17) Pen oa Net FM" Ak-s0  (%)
_b*res 4(I? 91                       (1051         (A 6)       fOs)   .    1 4          (70 1       (10D2)
COVPAnT4 9&MCE SME9F T SUMMA5Y
(Ro. MilWOt4
PONTIA 4AK
hO         oEscap?oN              1967       /198          19699.      t1981                  NOV t992
1 ASSEYS
Cunelt:
(1)   * C.h4    s1                   69S         74.          34 5       3269         5279        56.2
)   .O Ue                           t12.2       1401         1622        276'        392.2        2es5
(3) TOtWCuflg (I *a1                232.1       215 5        1966        603 3         20         6746
Fined.
(4)  La* BlBduiWecl.rn            3.4 06       3.4066     123=6 a      ¶Z.790      1300ZO      13.1440
(5)  Equvn*nVv%et                  1.793 7     t.76*6      1.561 0      * 562       1 659 7      1.757 9
(6)  otie                           325*4       3e12       1079         12946       12965        1.3270
M TotFlix. a14*5.6) _             55 259       5 542   s  14s9693      1 21        t.6036 2      o 229 7
(6) Len Ag  gqe o                  1.V70       1o6216      2.070 4     2.1639  :    7  0         41l24
(9) Not elu. Asel) *61            43409        3.q213     128 9 9      t2l62        r2632       12.067 3
(10) coui,uc6n t unProgeas*           00          00           00         502          504          61a
(III ONonC.ui.s,a                     16          I            40          32         42t0        3470a
toWNetAssefta3*4.0+*1         * 44037     4 136 4       o309       3 .63       t1 3we8    13.29o 0
9 UASIUTIS & SCUllY
(t2) TOW Cwdm  U"S                 1t659         1560        me9o        4579 a       093          too S
(13  rotg   .7larem0t0W               00          00       5 0409       5530            0 a a    0   00
(14  TOW LJ.tuXz e*112.13(          159          Iw0O      56005        5 g85         16l"3 15113
(I5 itta)         _  ---          43177       39O0s       r 2990       7 27rs *      0513      13 0to*
Tota Uaoiuay A E4wud
(14.15)                      44137        4.1364     13095        132636      13d66        t3 21329
(IS) PaI(oa4)"       e  ra         1.305        (4? 70)   (840 244 60    (660         (745 8t     (2566)
(1?)           Fx0Natfu   atam (
_   Iba sTalt s9                      307)        (1241 ,         625051    5Z. (IS      it           21n



51
Table: 15
COMPARATNE STATEMENT OF CHANGES
IN FINANCIAL POSMON - SUMMARY
(Rp. MILLON)
PERUMPEL II
(CONSOUDATED)
NO.        DESCRIPTION             1987        1988         1989         1990         1991      NOV.1992
I  SOURCES OF FUNDS
* ROUTINE OPERATION S:
(t1)   - Net Iome _afterTax          733.9     14779.5      2;!.54.2     38,907.1     78,768.2     77,365.7
(20   -DgpfcIeIaon &Amortzation    14,639.5     11,457.5    14.221.7     17,300.5     21.145.1     25.325.9
(3)  Sub Totl                      15,373.4    26237.0      37,075.9     56.207.6     99,913.3    102,691.6
- NON ROUTINE:
(4)   - Totl Non4rotn              62,592.7    40.670.9    103,584.3     29,988.5     57,438.7    182,718.4
(5) To  Sowcs of Fwuds (3 + 4)     77,966.1    66.907.9    140.6602      86,196.1    157.352.0    285,410.0
It  USES OF FUNDS:
(6)  * rta_ Fced Ast               64,886A     38,465.6    110,236.2     69.163.8    110,264.1    141.0021
(7)  - Debt Intahmet                   0.0         42.4        76.7       9,872.2     23.449.5     14,311.5
(6)  -In.om OleftIuon               3,085.8     6,496.1      7,117.1     17.133.3     21.311.6    115,899.7
(9)  - Decrease in Sindrg Fund      1,275.1      1,540.1     1,273.1      4,537.7      3,050.6       595.8
(10) -O@ws                          1.703.1        34.2       1,018.7     3.961.5      6,394.0     20,194.9
Total Funds Used (6 to 9)      70,950.4    43,578.4    119,721.8 _104668.5    164.469.8    292.004.0
Di  CHANGE IN WORKING
CAPITAL (5 *10)                7,015.7     23.329.5    20,98.4    (18.472.4)      (7,117.8)   (6.594.0)
!   _        -     -            _                . .                        ..    _       ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



52
Table: 16
STATUS OF FINANCI  RATIO
NO.             DESCliPTION                1967      1988     1989      1990     1991   NOV.1992
_   PERUMPELII
I WORKING RATIO ()
Aduul                                79.54    67.19     58.07    5327      4522      42.77
. Target                              80.00    80.00    80        80.00     80.00     80.00
2 OPERATING RATIO ()
-AualW                               103.14    85.34     76.93    68.89     60.04     61.54
* Tagt (SA                            96.00    97.00     98.00    98.00     97.00     95.60
3 OEBT SEFIICE REQUIREMENT (ine)
Adtual.                                       472.00    382.00     5.60      4.50      7.60
-Tatet (SARA                           150      1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50      1.50
4 RETURN ON NET FA (%)                      0.6      8.9       92      16.6      25.8      209
BEFORETAX
n TANJUNG PRIOK:
t WORKINO RATIO (1)
* Actu                                66.56    54.31     43.64    4622      31.45     27.91
- Targt (SA                           70.00    70.00     70.00    70.00     70.00     70.00
2 OPERAT    RATIO ()
- Acta                                83.33    66.40     56.63    6127      41.47     41.13
- Target (SAR)                        8620     86.00     86.30    65.00     83.00     82.00
fit  TELUK SAW q:
I WORKING RA RO T  )
- Actual                             116.34    91.11     42.47    42.07     35.41     39.70
- Target (SAR)                       102.00    93.00     84.00    75.00     75.00     75.00
2 OPEPATING RATIO (Ye)
. Aca                                147.43    112.88    104.81    110.02    1 1 1.96    171.19
-Target (A                           121.18    126.60    128.70    117.30    119.20    115.10
IV PANJANG:
I WORKING RATIO (
* AcWal                               74.95    71.83     58.17    54.27     51.45     50.21
- Taw (SARI                           89.00    86.00     83.00    60.00     60.00     80.00
2 OPERATING RATIO (%)
. Acua                               119.10   104.93    97.50     63.51    68.77      85.31
Targw (SAMI                          116.00    115.60    116.10    115.90    114.00    110.90
V PALEMBANG:
1 WORKING RATIO (%)
- Actual                             115.7t    99.08    102.06    87.14     97.32     89.99
* Targt (SAR)                        119.00    106.00    93.00    60.00     80.00     80.00
2 OPERATING RATIO fl)
.Acta                                132.20    115.90    lc.89    110.02    113.30    116.07
- Targoet (A                         143.10   127.40    110.90    97.20     96.30     95.00
VI PONTIANAK:
1 WORKING RATIO (%)
-Actual                              225.85    116.83    97.29    83.24     83.54     71.19
* Targ (SAR                          120.00    99.40     85.60    75.00     75.00     75.00
2 OPERATING RATIO (%)
 AC*aW                              258.80    154.52    14728    122.72    12220    102.11
. Taret (SA                          141.10    143.80    119.20   98.90     96.10     95.80



Figure: 1
PROJECT TIME TABLE
NR.          I T E M                                             YEAR                      -
81    8283    84   85   Be   87   88    89 90              9    92  93
I LOAN PREPARATION          JUL
2 LOAN SIGNATURE                                    JUN
3 LOAN EFFECTIVENESS                                OCT
4 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
a. TANJUNG PRIOK
1) CvilW oe1cs 
21 Equipmntr (BRD)                                                                                                                            L
3| Equipment (Pl- IQ                                                      .  . | 
4) Stud & TA
b. TELUK 8AYUR .
c. P A N J A N G                    .W
d. PALEMBANG                                                 # Q.g. V
a PONTIANAK                                                  £P
5 LOAN CLOSING                                                                                DEC
6 LOAN COMPLETION                                                                                  APR
TIME REOUIREO FOR
LOAN PREPARATION TO                  4 YEARS
LOAN EFFECTN\ESS
TIME REQUIRED FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                    7 YEARS
__ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __   _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _.__ __ _ _ _. .__ __ _ _ __ _ _ _..___ _ _  



54
EOUPMEWT PROJECT TIME TABLE
NR          I T E M          -UNIT  CONTRACTOR PAID By                             YEAR-
_ ___________________          ___________              1987      1985     18        1990      1991      1992
t Contane Crane               2  HYUnu          IORD        10       I   2            4
2  Co4tainer Crane            3  Noel            P14Il                                     .               8
I 
3 RTG CameWidesp              7 "VyW            IBRD        10       I   2   U         4
4 RTG Cm"*Smad4a              4   fUR"_          IBRD       10       I   2   If       4
5   RTG Crane w    n          3  WMit           IBRD                                  a              9
6  RtG CM   Wideepan          3 Mts             ISRO                                            7      1 
7  RTG Crane Widek            9 M                Pi-il                                8 
8  Termbl Trac               15 AUbik           ISRD        9           7
9 0         7,
9  Termnal Ttor               4 U. Tractor       ISRD8_ 6t
tO  Terminl Tractor           W0 Allbmk           Pl-l                                    12 1 5 n 7
1        7
It Skele  Tnuler              15 HaMpan LiU.  ISRD           10       4
10OW4
12 Skeeta Trai                14 Gemala          IBRD                                6     t
13 Sketl Trader               50 Genal            Pi-II                                        1      7
14 Forklt Top Loader           S U. Tractor      !PRO                                6      1
Fklndt Sde Loader          2                                                     6              6
15 FoIiftE Side Loade          I U. Trctor        Pt-tl                                   12        5
16 Foa    ton                 20 Gaya Wahana    18R0                                 6           4
6           4
17 Used Contner Crane          2 Kasho            P1-Il                              7           3
7        03
18 Used RTG Crane wide-span    7 Rwmp ln.         Pi-if                                        1 13 6 I 3
Schedule
_ Actua



55
figute 3
SL4 PRGOJIDID4 PROCIIRFS
(XEPPRES 21984
1. PEWl1FICA1TION PM      S
( Year 1985
.-4'   STATE
?I 6i                               j4 - Rl4T1
7
IBRD  A
2. APPO        OF TWO DOa I
Year 1987 )                                              Tender
Consul tation          DocuMent
---  .           s~~~pproval
Tender                            ijl STATE A1r4oa
3acuznt1;i
Preparation                          AUDITOR
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t S      It
.D G SC  i1   -:                                *-       STAt!
I l-     PI - 11 I          1.O.C
(NSDP):1                   '4-                      SECT ARIAt
6                 5
7
;________ ,                       t  RD
3. PR0CU n,T PRO
(Year 1987 )
,TEDER       I    R            2.      -.c              STATE
COMITTE£, '         l- li         t   .
.(INTERDEFT):     '              -                -    SECRETARIAt.
.4
'*1s
8;-
;,                        1~~~~~~~ 8 R Di
V               7
NOTE:
P1-l  PT (PERSERO) PEABUHAN INDNSIA II
DGSC     DIRECTORATE  ERL Of SEA CoMWNICAUONs
N.O.C    NINISTRY Of COmNUCATIOlS
GOI STATE AUDITOR: 8PP



56
III. STATISTICAL INFORNATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                     Purpose                  Approvl      Status
1.  Loan 1250-IND              Assistance for           5/76         Completed
Second Shipping Project   National Fleet                         in 1984
Development
2.  Loan 1337-IND              Establish Container      11/76        Completed
Tanjung Priok Port         Handling Capacity                     in 1984
Project
Commel.ts:
The funding for the technical assistance studies which were carried out under
the Maritime Sector Development Program (MSDP) was provided from loans 1250-IND
and 1337-IND. GOI directed the studies to develop a project concept that would
draw up plans for improving the ports of Tanjung Priok, Panjang, Teluk Bayur,
Palembang, and Pontianak.   The Second Shipping Project (Loan 1250-IND) was
designed to address the main problems of the shipping sector which were defined
as equipment obsolescence, fleet over capacity, poor productivity and poor
management. The Tanjung Priok Project (Loan 1337-IND) had the objective of
increasing the capacity of port traffic throughput in the area and establishing
a container handling facility.



57
Table 2. Loan Disbursement
- ---(US$ million ---------               Actual as %
Bank FY Ending              SAR Estimate            Actual            of Estimate
1986                        4.5                   0.0              0.0
1987                       20.0                   3.5             17.5
1988                       46.0                  20.5             44.6
1989                       72.0                  32.0             44.4
1990                       92.0                 42.7              46.7
1991                      102.0                  56.6             55.5
1992                      111.0                  57.7             52.0
4/1993                      111.0                  76.9             69.3
Canceled                                             34.1             30.7
Comments:
120-
100-
80-
60-                                                                 ESAR
UACTUAL
40-
201
0*
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993



59
Table 3. Project Timetab_e
Date        Date        Date
Ite                           Planned     Revised      Actual
Identification                                         N/A
Preparation                   07/81       N/A          N/A
Preappraisal                  11/81       N/A          N/A
Appraisal 1                   02/82       N/A          11/83
Appraisal 2                   N/A         N/A          05/84
Negotiations                  06/82        10/84       05/85
Board Approval                03/83        12/84       06/85
Loan Signature                N/A         N/A          06/85
Loan Effectiveness            09/85       N/A          10/85
Loan Closing                  6/30/92      12/31/92    12/31/92
Loan Completion               N/A         N/A          04/93



59
SAR                Actual
In US$ million
A. Civil Woks
Tanjung Priok                  25.40                11.93
Teluk 8ayur                    41.36                29.14
Panjang                        12.42                6.38
Palembang                      13.79                 1.95
Pontianak                      11.09                4.01
104.06               53.41
Design 8 Supervlsion              0                  7.58
Sub-Total                104.06               60.99
B. Euipent
Tanjung Priok                  22.85                64.65
Other Potts                     6.47                   0
Sub-Total                29.32                64.65
42.43                  0
C. Traininj                    10.78                19.48
TOTAL                   186.59              145.12



SAR                       ACTUAL
GOI/PP-II IBRD  TOTAL      GOI/PP-II  IBRD    TOTAL
USS million                 US$ million
CIVIL WORKS                        63.5  63.5      127        26.7     34.3      61
EQUIPMENT                             4  30.7    34.7          37      27.5    64.5
TA & TRAINING                         0  10.8    10.8          4.4     15.1    19.5
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION              0     6       6
OTHER                                 8     0        8
TOTAL                              75.5  111    186.5         68.1     76.9     145



61
CIVIL WORKS                       SAR                       ACTUAL
TANJUNG PRIOK           __-           _      .     __-
1  Site Preparation, Modification and
_Fumishing
Development & Extension of
_ __________________________  Container Termninal
2  Dredging
3  Quay Strengthening           Quay Strengthening
4  Service Buildings            Administration Building and
Ancillary Building
.____________                      Construction of UTC
5 Access Road and Truck Park
TELUK BAYUR                                        _________
6___ ___ ___ __  _ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___Constu ion  of New   W harf
2  __Dredging______Dreding & Excavation
Channel and Harbour Dreding 
3  Land Relamation              Reclamation of Works
4  Quay Strengthening and       Reconstruction of Existing
___________________Construction of New Sheds
_  Service BuildingsInsl_ations______ ___
PANJANG                                              __ _
I Site Preparation, Modification and
_Fumishing
I__Warf Construction
2  Dredging
Grading, Paving Drainage,
Water Supply Sewerage &
3_LandRec-iamationRElectdcal Works
43  Quay Construction
Construction of Container
I                   ConFreight Station
4  Service Buildings



62
CMVL WORKS       |SAR                                       ACTUJAL
PALEMBANG             _ _       _       _     _              _
I  site Preparation, Modification and Road Pavement
_   Fumishing
____=_________ Construction of Access Road
_2  Service Buildings
Gate House, Power Build &
Ancillary Works
3  Service Boat Jetties
PONTlANAK
F  Site Preparation, Modificaton and
Fumishing
2  Quay Strengthening and       Construction of Wharf
Construction
Construction of Two Sheds
3  Service Buildings
Gate House, Wokshop,
Canteen, Pilot House & Andally
.. ______________ _  _____________________________ W orks
4  Service Boat JettY           Construction of Service Boat
__             _       ~~~~~~~~Jetty



63
e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,
TANJNG PIOK        =.
I   Container Cranes (2)               Qusyside Container Crane
2   WIde-Span Transtainers (7)         Rubber Tyred Gantry Crane
3   Small-Span Transtainers (4)        Rubber Tyred Gantry Crane
4   Tractors (21)                      Terninal Tractor (Schedule 4)
5   Chassis (30)
Skeletal Trailer (Schedule 5)
6 Spares
l______________  lForklift Top Loader (Packae A)
________________ 7 Workshop Equipment
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _Tenrinal Tractor (Package  B)
-_______________  _ ______________________  .    .Flat Deck Trailer (Package  C)
Rubber Tyred Gantry Crane
I_____________  I _______________________   Forklift  Full Free  Uft  2  Ton
TEWK BAYUR    =
I Mobile Crane (1)
__2   FLTs, 36 t (2)
_3   Tractors (4)
4   Chassis (12)
5 Spares
6   Workshop Equipment
PANJANG                 _
I Mobile Crane (1)
2   FLT, 36 t (I)
3   Tracotrs (2)
4   Chassis (5)
5   Spares
_   Workshop Equipment                       __



63b
EQUIPMENSA                                                ACTA
PALEMBANG
I  Mobile Crane (1)             __
2   FLTs, 36 t (2)                         _
3   FLTs, 3 t (_)
4   FLTs, 1.5 t (8)
S  Tractors (4)
6_ Chassis (12)
7  jSpares
_____________ 8  Workshop Equipment
PONTIAAM_                  _  _  __  _  _  _  _  _
11 IMobile Crane (1)
2   FLTs, 3 t (2)
3   FLTs, 5 t (2)
4   Tractors (2)
__ _____X_______ S  Chassis (4)
X__-____L 86  Spares
7  Workshop Equipment       _



64
Table 5. Use of Bank Resources
Stage of Prolect Cycle                          Actual No. of Staffweeks
Through Appraisal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   249.9
Appraisal through Board Approval  . . . . . . . . . . .      8.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . .      2.3
Supervision   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   155.1
Missions
No. of   Days         Specialization    Performance     Types of
Month/Yea-          Persons in Field   Represented    !/ R a t i n g   Status2/
Problems'/
Through Appraisal:
May 1984              5          21       ECN,EGR,FNA             1
Appraisal Through:
March 1986            2          14       EGR,ECN                 1
Supervision:
July 1986             2          20       EGR,EGN                 2
March 1987            2          21       EGR,FNA                 2
November 1987         3          13       EGR,FNA,OPO             2
June 1988             2          11       EGR,ECN                 2
November 1988         3          13       EGR,OPO,FNA             2
February 1989         4          16       EGR,ECN,OPO             2
November 1989         2          17       EGR,ECN                 2
May 1991              4          11       EGR,ECN,FNA             2
February 1992         3           8       EGR,OPO,ECN             2
June 1992             3           4       EGR,ECN,OPO             2
ECO - Economist; FNA - Financial Analyst; EGR - Engineer;
OPO - Operations Officer
2/     1 - Problem-Free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems;
3 - Major problems
3/     N - Management; T - Technical



65
Table 5. Staff Weeks
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85        Total
Preparation             2.2   21.8  29.9  26.5  -      -            80.4
Appraisal               -     -      -     -    85.9  83.9         169.5
Negotiation             -      -     -     -     -      8.6          8.6
Supervision             -     -     -      -     -      2.3          2.3
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92        Total
Supervision       21.3  22.9  24.2  25.2  19.6  23.8  15.8         152.8
PCR (estimate)                                                       8.0
421.6
3  Preparation
* Appraisal
* Negotiation
Supervision



66
Performance Indicators
Table 6(i). Port Traffic Data - Taniung Priok
1.    Shig.Calls ('Units)
19i1                     12          1990         1991         1992
Oceangoing               1,777       1,638        2,482        2,778       2,953        2,512
Container                  753         786          837          902       1,328        1,541
InterIsland              3,642       3,578        3,687       4,474        4,942        5,705
Tanker                     400         414          469          466         486          507
Offshore Ships            J5qQ 2.160               2.649       J.510       2.396        2.094
Total              8,081       8,582       10,124      11,130       12,106       12,359
2.    Cargo Handling (000 tons)
Export                   3,134       4,031        5,541       4,718        3,892        5,933
Import                  5,87Z        6.472        7.112        8.268       9.295       10.570
9,011      10,503       12,653      12,986       13,187       16,503
Inter-Island-loading    1,213        1,448        1,441       1,777        1,960        2,366
-unloading  1.892        2.034       2.457        3.185        3,037       3.043
3,105       3,482        3,898       4,962        4,997        5,409
Total             12,116      13.185       16.551      17.948       18.184       21.912
3.    Oil Discharged (000 tons)
4,565       4,769        4,962       5,909        6,549        7,085
4.   Cgneainers
(1000 TEU)          274          336          444         644          736          866
(1000 tons)       2,750        3,402       4,284        5,690        6,591       8,288
International     2,750        3,402        4,284       5,690        6,477        8,171
Source: Perumpel II
SAR 1990 Targets
Total Cargo (000 tons)                      17,489
Container (000 tons)                         4,104



67
Tanju_g Priok Traffic
(000 tons)
25000
20000
15000.                                                                                        Exports
........................                                            ----   --  Imports
10000 -                                                                 ___.         ----------   - Total tramffc
5000
1987          1988          1989         1990          1991          1992



68
Tanjung Priok Traffic
(000 tons)
25000
200 /0
15000                  ,,
_- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                 | _ ~~~~~~~Containers|
t -- ~Total traffc 
I-.
5000
o~~~~~
O-        1Ita t989             19 I                  1
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992



69
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6(i). Port Traffic Data - Other Porgts
1.990                Actual
Target (SAR) Actual      1221
Cargo Handling       (1000 tons)
Pani ang
Inward              445        1,219        456          499
Outward              718         745        983          592
Total             1,162        1,964      1,439        1,092
Palombang
Inward              488          315        273          219
Outward              214       1,632      1,637        1,221
Total                702       1,947      1,910        1,440
Pontianak
Inward              339        1,220      1,041          983
Outward               76           5         85           79
Total               415        1,225      1,126        1,062
Teluk Bavur
Inward              481        2,487        360          272
Outward             397        1,435        219          397
Total                878       3,922         579         669



70
Table 6(ii).   Port Efficiency Indicators
TanignS Priok
i9       1988     1989    1990    1221         1992
1.    Ship Waiting Time (hours)
Oceangoing                     10.44     8.89    10.69   22.91   20.55       23.41
Container                       3.94     4.95     5.62   18.98   17.66        14.56
Inter Island                    4.83     5.11     6.17   10.06   12.43       17.57
Tanker                         33.11    20.63    26.02   25.87   36.74        50.96
2.    Berth Service Time (hours)
Oceangoing                     59.58    54.88    73.78   64.15   58.39        70.77
Container                      10.69    17.54    18.27   30.71   26.47        19.73
Inter Island                   71.56    70.40    71.30   74.20   57.06       60.27
Tanker                         44.12    44.65    43.42   43.48   43.77       44.23
3.    Turn Round Time
Oceangoing                     70.02    63.86    84.47   87.06   78.94        94.18
Container                      14.63    22.49    23.89   49.69   44.13        34.29
Inter Island                   76.39    75.51    77.47   84.26   69.49       77.84
Tanker                         77.12    65.28    69.44   69.35   80.51        95.19
4.    Tonnage Per Shig
Oceangoing                   3,561.5  4,362.7  3,812.1  3,528.8  3,080.29   4,071.91
Inter Island                   854.0    973.6  1,057.5  1,109.2  1,011.26       948.09
5.    Ganz Per Ship
Oceangoing                     2           2       2.2       2.64    2.80      2.72
Inter Island                   2           2       2.1       2.53    2.30      2.20
6.    Berth Occupancy (%)
G.C. Wharf                     46.30    46.56    65.82   67.41   54.33        62.14
Container Berth                35.00    41.35    44.00   64.17   47.14        56.69
Oil Jetty                      76.20    77.68    65.81   59.33   65.43        78.88
Buoys                          70.08    55.68    59.07   67.46   68.98        43.79
7.    Shed Occupancy (%)
Transit Storage                36.86    42.34    40.30   47.30   41.77        43.15
Open Storage                   31.66    38.90    37.78   44.87   45.56        39.28
General Yard                              -         -       -                 61.74
MEMO:
SAR
1983                 1990 (Target)
GC       Cont.            GC       Cont.
1.    Shin Waiting Time (hours)       7         2                5        2
2.    Berth Service_Time (hours)    70         32               30       18
3.    Berth Occupancy (%)            53        35               80       50
GC - General Cargo
Cont. - Containerized Cargo



71
Other Ports
_ ;90              1991             -1992
GC     Cont.      GC      Cont.   GC         C,nt.
1. Shjp Waiting Time (hours)
Teluk Bayur                      15       NA        11      NA        7         NA
Panjang                          26       NA        23      NA      12          NA
Palembang                        13       NA        14      NA      14          NA
Pontianak                        34       NA        22      NA      29          NA
2.  Berth Service Time (hours)
Teluk Bayur                      80       NA        70      NA      74          NA
Panjang                          64       NA        56      NA      48          NA
Palembang                        29       NA        25      NA      24          NA
Pontianak                        65       NA        69      NA      37          NA
3.  Average Dwell Time (days)
Teluk Bayur                       3       NA         3      NA       2          NA
Panjang                           9       NA         9      NA       8          10
Palembang                        NA       NA        NA      NA      NA          NA
Pontianak                        NA       NA        NA      NA      NA          NA
4. Berth Occugancy (%)
Teluk Bayur                      58       NA        54      NA      56          NA
Panjang                          72       NA        64      NA      73          10
Palembang                        40       NA        53      NA      40          NA
Pontianak                        84       NA        81      NA      80          NA
SAR
1983       _     _l990   argpt
Cont.            GC       Cignt.
1.  Shi2 Waiting Time (hours)
Teluk Bayur                      55       NA                 5         5
Panjang                          22       NA                20       20
Palembang                        58       NA                 5         5
Pontianak                       141       NA                20       12
2.  Berth Service Time (hours)
Teluk Bayur                      81       72                45      24
Panjang                          80       48                45      24
Palembang                        85       60                45      24
Pontianak                        51       NA                45      24
3.  Berth OccuRancy (%)
Teluk Bayur                      90       NA                80      50
Panjang                          57       NA                80      50
Palembang                        75       NA                80      SO
Pontianak                        72       NA                80      50
GC - General Cargo
Cout. - Containerized Cargo



72
Table 6(iii).   Consolidated Income Statement
--       Rp million---
PERVEL- II1987                            12Z8        1222       1220        121        1
1.  Revenues                 63,908.1   76,472.3   96,246.1   141,642.2  198,786.9   233,725.3
2.  Working Expenses         50,934.7   49,735.1   59,776.9    80,110.9   96,567.6   107,687.0
3.  Depreciation Expenses   15,434.6   13,363.9   14,265.3    17,470.4   22,782.4    36,144.5
4.  Total Operating          66,369.3   63,099.0   74,042.2    97,581.4  119,349.9   143,831.6
Expenses
Working latio t
-   Achieved                 79.7       65.0        62.1       56.6        48.6         46.1
-   LA/PA Target             80         80          80         80          80           80
Operating Ratio %
A Achieved                   103.9      82.5        76.9       68.9        60.0         61.5
-   SAR Target               96         97          98         98          97           95.6
TANJUNG PRIO                   1987        1          1989        12929      191
1.  Revenues                 46,507.5   56,706.3   76,602.8    82,005.5  102,280.8   183,048.9
2.  Working Expenses         30,953.2   30,794.6   35,830.4    40,772.7   38,815.3    46,539.9
3.  Depreciation Expenses    7,802.4    6,861.1    7,550.1        9,470.7   11,411.7    19,490.1
4.  Total Operating          38,755.6   37,655.6   43,380.4    50,243.4   50,226.9    66,030.0
Expenses
Working Ratio %
-  Achieved                  66.5       54.3        49.3       49.7        37.9         25.4
-   LA/PA Target             70         70          70         70          70           70
ODerating Ratio %
-  Achieved                  83.3       66.4        59.7       61.3        49.1         36.1
-   SAR Target               86.2       86          86.3       85          83           82



~~ZIJJJhYY~~~          19-87    ~   881-                 12990      1991
1. Revenues                 2,117.1    2,249.9    2,746.1    3,467.5    2,532.2
2. Working Expenses         2,463.0    2,049.9    2,214.0    3,834.4    4,402.7
3.  Depreciation Expenses     658.2       489.7      666.2      967.0    1,173.7
4. Total Operating          3,121.3    2,539.6    2,880.2    4,801.4    5,576.4
Expenses
WLorking Ratio %
-  Achieved                 116.3       91.1       80.6       110.5       173.8
*  PA Target                89          86         83         75          75
Ooerating Ratio 
-  Achieved                 147.4       112.8      104.8      138.4       220.2
-  SAR Target               116.0       115.6      116.1      115.9       114.0
LANIANMG                       198        1988       1989        1990       1991
1. Revenues                 2,518.2    3,505.7    4,422.6    6,244.5    7,764.0
2. Working Expenses         1,887.3    2,518.2    2,801.6    4,362.7    4,771.9
3.  Depreciation Expenses   1,111.8    1,160.4    1,450.3    1,763.7    1,876.0
4. Total Operating          2,991.1    3,678.7    4,251.9    6,126.4    6,647.9
Expenses
'Workingt Ratio%
-Achieved                 74.9        71.8       63.3       69.8        61.4
-SAR/PA Target            86          83         80         80          80
Qoerating Ratio %
-Achieved                 119.1       104.9      96.1       98.1        85.6
-SMR Target               116.0       115.6      116.1      115.9       114.0



74
PALEBMANG                      1987        1988       1989        1990        .1
1.  Revenues                 3,470.6    3,401.8    3,384.9    4,608.9    5,356.0
2.  Working Expenses         4,015.9    3,370.4    3,524.7    4,078.1    4,901.7
3.  Depreciation Expenses      572.1       572.2      804.3       991.0    1,095.4
4.  Total Operating          4,588.1    3,942.6    4,329.0    5,069.2    5,997.2
Expenses
Worki_ng Ratio S
-  Achieved                  115.7      99.0        104.1       88.4       91.5
-   SAR/PA Target            119        106         93          80         80
0Deratin- Ratio %
-  Achieved                  132.2      115.9       127.8       109.9      111.9
-   SAR Target               143.1      127.4       110.9       97.2       96.3
PONTIANAT K                    1987        128        198i        1990       1221
1.  Revenues                   834.8       942.9      974.1    1,568.9    2,147.1
2.  Working Expenses         1,885.4    1,101.6    1,091.5    1,611.6    2,046.5
3.  Depreciation Expenses      275.1       355.4      487.0       716.5      685.6
4.  Total Operating          2,160.5    1,457.0    1,578.5    2,328.0    2,732.1
Expenses
Wogking Ratio 2
-  Achieved                  225.8      116.8       112.0       102.7      95.3
-   SAR/PA Target            120        99.4        85.6        75         75
Operating Ratio %
-  Achieved                  258.8      154.5       162.0       148.3      127.2
-   SAR Target               141.1      143.8       119.2       98.9       98.1
PERUNPEL II, Comparative Income Statement and Balance Sheet 1987-1991
Jakarta, Nay 1991



75
PERUMPEL II                    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992  Total
Rp. million
Sources
Net income                    733.9 14, ;7.  5 22,854.3 38,907.1  78,768.2 77,385.7
Depreciation                14,639.5 11,457.4 14,221.8 17,300.5 21,145.1 25,325.9
From Operations             15,373.4 26,236.9 37,075.9 56,207.6 99,913.3 102,691.6 337,498.7
GOI Grants                   0,000.0  7,158.3 58,271.0  2,174.1  6,251.3 22,353.9 98,208.6
Loans                       14,454.2 30,815.3 23,556.0 18,368.9 35,356.9 48,998.9 171,550.2
From Other                  48,138.5  2,697.3 21,757.3  9,445.5 14,830.5 111,365.6
62,592.7 40,670.9 103,584.3 29,988.5 56,438.7 182,718.4
Total Sources               77,966.1  66,907.8 140,660.2 86,196.1 156,352.0 285,410.0
Uses
Investments                 64,877.8 34,509.4 110,158.5 28,271.2 94,013.0 141,002.0 472,829.9
Debt Service                      0       0       0  9,781.2 22,888.5 14,311.5 46,981.2
Income Distributon               0  4,329.1  7,117.1  17,133.3 20,625.7 115,899.7
Other                        6,072.6  4,739.9  2,448.2 49,482.8 26,942.6 20,830.8
70,950.4 43,578.4 119,721.8 104,668.5 164,469.8 292,044.0
Debt Service Ratio                                      5.75    4.37    7.18



76
Table 6(v): Consolidated Comparative Balance Sheet - Summary
--Rp billion-
PERUMPEL II                               1987     1988    1989      1        11        12
ASSETS
1. Current:
Cash & Deposits                    51.9      66.5     86.3     83.9    92.8      107.4
Other                              22.8      25.0     32.5     34.9    42.1       45.6
Total Current                      74.7      91.5    118.8    118.8   134.9       153.1
2. Fixed:
Land/building/facilities            240       239      271      277    312.7        376
Equipment/vessels                    33        41       54        70      122       187
Other                              17.1      18.4     83.6     86.6      93.6    105.8
Total Fixed                       290.1    298.4    408.6    433.6    528.3    668.8
Less Acc. Depreciation             63.1      74.6     88.3    102.5       122    145.7
Net Fixed Assets                    227    223.9    320.3    331.0    406.3    523.s.
3.  Construction in Progress             14.8        41     21.1        62     69.6      17.5
4.  Other Non Current Assets               3.3      2.9      2.3       2.9      6.1       7.6
Total Net Assets                  319.8    359.3    462.5    514.7    616.9    701.3
LIABILITIES & EOUITY
Total Current                             15.9      9.4     15.7      34.1     59.3      83.1
Total Long-Term Debt                      23.3     52.7       75.2    81.6     91.7    141.9
Total Liabilities                         39.2     62.1     90.9    115.7    151.0    225.0
Equity
Total Equity
280.6    297.2    371.2       399    465.9    476.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                        7/93    15/85    16/84    16/84    15/85    20/80
Return on Net Fixed Assets (%)            0.6      9.9      9.1      16.6     25.8      20.9
(before tax)



INDONESIA
ATIONAL POLlS DEVELOPEMEt PROJECT
(Loan No. 2577-IND)
TABLE 7, PRJECT-FINAlNED TECHHlGAL ASSISTANCE
SuR- -  -.-*- -.-ACTA                                                 L .............-           Cost
Cost US$,O0O
2185000
............................. ............................................................ ..................................................................... ............................................................................... ..................
1. PERMPEL It
...........
Corporate Nanagement                              516                                           Port Operations                                       700
Port Operations                                   588                                           Financlt Dat   anagemet                               465
Equipment Nanagement                              368                                           Equipment Nanagement                                  629
........                                      Job Analysis                                          210
1 472                                           Persornel Policy & Regutations                        290
2.  DOSC
Sector Nonitoring                                 740                                           sector Nonitoring                                     625
Trade Coordination                                350                                           Cargo Unitization                                     390
Cargo Unitization                                 442                                           Transport Sector Pollcy                               125
Planing Advisory                                      263
1,532                                           0-0 Survey-Non-Road                                    100
3.  mC
River Transport Schemes                           812                                           Regulatory Reform                                     520
State Transport Corporatlon                       424                                           State Enterprise Advice                               270
National Transport                                536                                           MIS Devlopment                                        250
Development Gulde                           -----
1,7
4.  DGLC                                                                                             O-D Survey-Roeds                                     1100
----~ Tromqmrt Domtopw                         1,256                                            Land Transport Rev.                                  1931
Land Transport Dev.elopm.ent                    1,256



EA3 CWOVENNT DATABASE    PAGE    I OF REPORT 5040A  RUN DATE 05/18/93
INDONESIA
REVIEI OF LU4 CENANTS
LOAN/CREDIT: L-2577  PROJECT NATIONL PORTS DEVELOENT EFF: 10/22/85 APP: 06/11/85 SECTOR: TRANSPORT
(AS OF 05/10/93 1
AGRE4
TYPE OF    UPDATE CUR ST
SECTION             CaEENT    OATE   CODE   DESCRIPTION OF COVEKAsT                          CURRENT CENANT STATUS DESCRIPTION
ART. 3.01(D)         Ft        10/30/85      2 SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGEMED  )/PER*MPEL II.        IN AWLIANCE.
ARt. 4.02            M1        09/30/87      2 CONTINUW  TO CARRY OUT ITS ACTION PROGRAM FOR  IN C0MPLIANCr.
IMPRNING PR(/ISICN OF PORT AND SHIPPING
SERVICES.
ART. 6.01            F1        10/30/85      2 SUBSIDIARY L4AN AGlE104T WITH PERMPEL         IN COGPLIANEE.
EXECUTED.
PA
ART. 2.01(BI.        Ml        06/27/91      3 PERIJHPEL TO TAME ALL NECESSARY ACTIONS TO    REQUIRED ACTION TAiE NH0WEVER TARGETS
ACHIEVE TARGETS S8T OUT IN SCHEDULE 2. CQN-  PARTIALLY ACHIEVED.
PUtE PORT EFFICIENCY INDICATORS SEMI-
AWNUALLY.
ART. 2.06.           H2        06/27/91      2 PERIHPEL SHA  CARRY OUT TRAINING PROGRAMS    IN CCWIAACE.
IN PART C.
ART. 4,02.           Ml        09/30/07      2 SNAL EVLOP ADJUSTED ACCOtNG  SY5t0            DOE.
INTRODUCE SYSTEM BY 07/01/06t USE SYSTEM
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING 12/31/86 AND THERE-                                                                      C°
AFTER.                                                                                                           1
ART. 4.03.           Flo       09/21/00      2 BY 12/31/86, REVALUE ASSETS AND ANUN OcF    CGPLI.D.
ACC(HLATED DEPRECIATION; THEREAFTER RE-
VALUE SUCH ASSETS PERIODICALLY.
ART. 4.04(A).        F5        06/2W/91      1 FOR EACH FISCAL YEAR AFTER THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDING 12/31/06, MANTAIN RATIO OF TOTAL      IN COMPLIANCE.
WORKING EXPENSES TO TAL OPERATING REVENUES
NOT HIGHER THAN 80%.
ART. 4.041B).        FS       06/27/91       1 RATIO TTL  ORKING EXPENSES TO TTL OPERATING
REVENUES OF EACH PROJECT PORT SHALL BE:      (1) AND (3) IN COMPLIANCE: (4) AIAE)ST IN
1) TANJUNG PRIOK: NO GREATER THAN 70%.       IN COPLIANCE (88%1;  (21 (1111) AND (5)
2) TEWUK BAYARs NO GREATER THAN 75% BY       (103%) NOT IN CCIPLIANE.
12/31/90 AND THEREAFTER.
3) PANJANG: NO GREATER THAN 80t BY 12/31/90
AND THEREAFTER.
4) PALEMBANG: NO GREATgR THAN 80% BY 12/31/90
*****STATUS CODES**'*** *   .***^**COVENANT TYPE CODES****************C                           TYPE
I-IAVAILABLE           INSTITUTIOt-  I-CREATE/REVISE/UPDATE ORGANS-                   F4-SELF-FINANCING RATIO
2-IN COMIPLIANCE       NAL:           ZATIONS;IMPROVe 1Q41 s MHIS:                    F5-eBT/eQUTY RATIO; DEsT SERVICE RATIO
3-PARTLY CCPLIED                      AGREEMENTS BETWrEEN OR WITH                     F6-PRICING OF PRODUCTS
4-NOT IN CIPLIANCE                    AGENCIES                                        F7-PROVISICN OF LOCAL FUNDS
5-TO BE WAlVED/DELETED  MANAGER-    MI-SUPERVISION OF IMPLEMENTA-                     F8-PREPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRW4
6-1O LONGER REEVANST  lAL:            TION (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                     F9-LEVEL OF OUTSTANDING ARREARS
7-TO BE AHMENDED                      INcL. PROCUREMENT ACTION,                      FIO-ASSET REVALuATIONt DEPRECIATION
8-NO  YET DUE                         DEVELOP ACCOUNTING SYSTEM             TECHNIC-  TI-CONSTRUCtION STANDARDS
142-ADEQUATE TRAINING POGRM             CAL:       T2-LAND ACQUISITION & HAPPING
M3-WORK PROGAM/BUDGET PREP D                       T3-SITE SELECTION
FINANC-     PI-SIGNING OF SUBSIDIARY                           T4-DETAILED ENGINEERING
IAL:           AGREEMENT                                       T5-ENSURe 0 & M PLAN & FUNDING
P2-RATES OF RETURN                                 T6-eWVIRONENT
F3.COST RECOVERY 6 INT. RATES           OTHERS:  OTHOTHERS



QA3 COfEfINt DAtSE    PAGE    2 OF REPORT 5040A  RM DAfE 05/19193
tNDONESIA
nEVIE OF U    CNTS
LOAMCREVIT: 1t-257?  PROWCT: NATIOAl. PCTS  BVELOMENT   FFP 10221f5 APPs 06/11115  SECTOR: TOASPORT
(AS or 05tlZ/93 I
TYM  OF    UPDATE CUR ST
sECtION               COVENANT   DATE   CODE    VSSIPtICt OF COVENANT                           CURIt CWENANT STATUS *SCRIPON
PA
ARt. 4.0413).         FS        06/27/91       1 AND THEREAFTER.
51 PONTIAMAK: NO GREATER THAN 75% BY 12131190
AND THEREAFTER.
ART. 4.05(A).         F`5       06/27/91       2 PERWPL NOT TO INCUR DEBT UNLSS NET RV-    IN C0PWANCE
NUES FOR FY IMMIEDIATELY PRECEDING OR 12-MD.
PERIOD DED PRIOR SPALL BE AT lEASt 1.5
TIMES I#XIW*1 DEBT StRVICE REQUIREafEN.
MAT. 4.061A).         FS        06/27/91       2
BY 03/31 IN EACH FY PERUMPEL (ON BASIS OF     TANJUNG PRIOK, PANJANG AND PALEA9ANG EXPECTED
FORECASTS) REVIEW WHEIHER IT WOUtD MEET THE   TO BE IN CCMPLIANCE. TEUUK BAYU AND
REQUIREMENT IN 4.04 AND 4.05 IN RESPECT OF    PONTIANAK WMLL NOT BE ABLE TO CCMPLY.
SUCH YEAR AND NEXT YEAR.
MAT. 4.06158.         FS        06/27/91       1 IF REVIEW SHOMS PERLMpEL NOULD NOT MEET RE-
QUIREMENT (PER 4.06(A)) THgN IT WItL PRO-     IN C04PLIANCE. PERUMPEL It TAKING ALL
MTLY TAKE ALL MEASURES TO MEET REQUIRE-       MEASURES NECESSARY TO MMEt REQUIREMENTS.
MENTS.
*****stATUS CODES**** *********C.NA4NT TYPE CO DS*#****^*        *            *******  **-****COVENANT TYPE CODES*************"*
1-UNAVAILABLE          INSTITUTION- I-CREATEIREVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                       F4-SELF-FINANCING RATIO
2-IN COMPLIANCE        NALt             ZATtONS:IMPROVE MGMT I MIS;                      FS-DEBT/EQUITY RATIO  DEBT SERVICE RATIO
3-PMTLY COMPIlED                       AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OR WITH                        F6-PRICING OF PRODUCTS
4-NOT IN CCMPLIANCE                    AGENCIES                                          P7-PROVISION OF LOCAL FUNDS
5-TO BE WItVED/DELETED MANAGER-    Mt-SUPERVISICN OF IMPLOMENTA-                         F8-PREPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
6-NO LOG(ER RELEVANT    IAL:           TICN (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                       F9-LEVEL OF OUTSTANDING ARREARS
7-TO BE AMENDED                        INCL. PROCUREMENT ACTION,                        P10-ASSET REVAWATIONs DEPRECIATION
8-NOT YET DME                          DFVELOP ACCOUNTING SYSTEM)             TECHNIC-  T1-CONSTRUCTIC* STANDARDS
M2-ADEQUATE TRAINING POGRAM              CAL:       T2-LAND ACQUISITION & MAPPING
M3-WORK PROGPAM/BUDGET PREP'D                       T3-SITE SELECTION
PINANC-      Fl-SIGNING OF SUBSIDIARY                            T4-DETAILED ENGINEERING
IAL:           AGREEMENT                                         T5-ENSURE O * M PLAN I FUNDING
P2-RATES OF RETURN                                  T6-ENVIRoNMENT
F3-COST RECOVERY & INt. RATES            OtHERS:  OH-OTHERS



