Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5422-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1985
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Transportation Division 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rp 1,100.
Rp l million   US$909
FISCAL YEAR
GOI         Apxil 1 - March 31
PERUMPELs   January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB            - Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS       - National Planning Bureau
CFS            -  Container Freight Station
DEPENG         -  Su=ervisory Board for the Public Port Corporations
DGSC           -  Directorate General of Sea Communications
DPS            -  Overall Development Fund
DWT            -  Dead Weight Ton
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
ICB            -  Intexnational Competitive Bidding
IDA            -  International Development Association
ILS            -  Interisland Liner Services
INPRES         -  Presidential Instruction
ISTS           -  Integrated Sea Transport Study
JICA           -  Japan International Coopexation Agenc,
KfW            -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
K:USUS         -  Industrial Sea Caxriex
LOKAL          -  Feeder Shipping Services
MARIN          -  Maritime Research Institute Netherlands
.OC            - Ministry of Communications
-14OF          -  Ministry of Finance
MOT            -  Ministry of Trade
-.-IPW         -  Ministry of Public Works
MSDP           -  Maritime Sector Development Program
PANN           -  National Fleet DevelopmeDt Corporation
PERAHU         -  Sail boat
PERINTIS       -  Pioneer shipping sexvices
PERUM          -  Public Utility Corporation
PERUMPEL       -  Public Port Corporation
PTC            -  Port and Txansport Consulting BremeD
REPELITA       -  GOI Five-Year Development Plan
RLS            -  Regulax LineT Services
SPN            -  National Transport Sector Development Guide
TEU            -  Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit
(the common unit used in indicating
the capacity of a contaiDex ship or
terminal)
UTC            -  Unit Terminal Containexs in Tanjung Priok
YUKA           -  Port Labor Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport and National Development                .       .           1
B. The Transport System                         ..                       2
C.  Transport Development Plans and Financing            .     .         3
D.  Sectox Management ...............         .... ............. .       3
E. Bank Sector Support Strategy                      .       .           5
II. THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A.  The Shipping Industry ....................................           6
B.  Port IDfrastructure and Operations .......................           7
C.  Maritime Administration ..................................           8
D.  The Maritime Sectox Development Px ogram .................          10
E.  Government Maritime Policy Reforms .......................          11
F.  Bank Maritime Subsector Support ..........................          13
III.  THE PUBLIC PORT CORPORATION II
A.  The Setting ..............................................          14
B.  Orga nization andd                        anagement ............................  16
C.  Operations and Maintenance ...............................          18
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives                      . . .    20
B. Pxoject Scope and Composition                 . . .                  21
C. Detailed Project Description                  . . .                  21
D.  Cost Estimate ........                 .... ............ ..         25
E. Project Financing                       . . .    27
F. Implementation                        . . .    28
G.  Procurement ..............................................          28
H.  Disbursements ............................................          29
I. Pxoject Monitoxing                      . . .    30
K. Status of Pxoject Preparation                 . . .                  30
L. Envixonmental Aspects                     . . .    31
This repoxt is based on the findings of an appxaisal mission in Novpmber
1983 and post-appraisal missions in May and November 1984. The project was
appraised by Hans Peters (Economist), and Wolfgang Hoehenwaxtex (Financial
Analyst), assisted by Arthux Carmichael (Consultant Poxt Engineex).
I This document has a res_ticted distrbution and may be usd by recipients only in th performance of 
thei oricida dutie Its contents may not otherwis be dsdosed without Word Bank authoriztion.



-  ii  -
,Page
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General      .....   ........                                     31
B. The Project Ports  .......................................        33
C.  Project Benefits .........................................       34
D.  Evaluation Methodology and Rates of Return...............        34
E.  Project Risks ............................................       35
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. General ............................... ...... .............. .   36
B.  Financial Performance of the Branch Ports ............ ....      36
C.  Financial Performance of the Public Port Corporation II..        38
D.  Improvements to Accounting System ........................     40
E. Auditing ......................................................   40
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO NMENDATIONS             .................... ..o...  41
ANNEfS
1.  The Maritime Sector Development Program .......................       42
2.  Principal Features of Presidential Instxuction No. 4 of 1985..        46
3.  PERUMPEL II Corporate Plan. ..................     ........ . * .     48
4.  Tanjung Priok Port Operations Improvement Program .............       50
5. The Project Ports: Operational Statistics, Existing
Facilities, and Traffic Projections .........................       51
6.  Technical Assistance, Consultant Services, and Training .......       65
7. Detailed Project Cost Estimates ...................................... .  69
8.  Port Efficiency Indicators ................................... .      76
9.  Financial Projections        ........................                 78
10. Sector and Project Related Documents Available in the
Pxoject File ................................      .    .......    ...........  86
SUPPORTING TABLES
1. Intra-Isllad Movement of Goods for Selected Origin and
Destination Pairs, by Mode of Transportation .................       90
2.  Resource Allocations for Transport Under Repelitas I-III .......       91
3.  Repelita IV Sectoral and Modal Allocations .....................       92
4.  National Fleet Composition and Gzovth Trends ....................      93
5.  Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements .......................       94
6.  Seaborne Trade Development  . .............................. .         95



- iii -
Page
CHARTS
1.  PERUMPEL II Orgauizatio - .............. .......    ........... ...    96
2.  TaojuDg Prlok Port  dminilstratioD OrganizationDee........... .....    97
3. OrgaDizatioD of the Port Administrations for Teluk Bayur,
Parjang, Palembang and Pontlanak .............................       98
4.  Project Implementation Table ............. ................. .. .      99
MAPS
IBRD 18065:  National Port Infastructure
IBRD 18070:  Development Plan for Tanjung Priok
IBRD 18068:  Development Plan for Teluk Bayur
IBRD 18066:  Development Plan for Panjang
IBRD 18069:  Development Plao for Palembang
IBRD 18067: Development Plan for POD tianak



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. TraDsport and National Development
1.01      Indonesia, the world-s largest axchipelagic nation, has a populatioD
of almost 160 million people and a land area of 2 million sq. km, extending some
5,000 km acxoss the equatox, and compxising more than 13,000 islands, of which
Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi axe the laxgest. The expanse of the
countxy implies divexse climatic conditions, resouxce endowments and growth po-
tentials. Economic and political integration of the diffexent regions in the
midst of such divexsity is an important policy objective of the Govexnment of
Indonesia (GOI), and transportation plays a crucial role in this effort. Dux-
ing the 1970s the countxy's gross domestic product (GDP) rose at avexage annual
growth rates of almost 8%, while transport demand is estimated to have developed
at about 12% per annum. Annual GDP gxowth slowed to about 4% duxing the eaxly
1980s due to the worldwide recession but transpoxt demand continued to increase
at high rates of betweeo 8% and 1OZ pex annum. With the country-s geogxaphic
dimensions and large population, attempts to cope with the necessaxily diverse
nature of transport demand efficiently and equitably, remain a difficult task,
which is aggxavated by the need to constantly address newly emerging demands,
resulting fxom economic pxogress and population incxeases. Over the past de-
cade, both domestic txade and trade with the outside world have shown steady
growth, and these txends axe expected to continue. All these developments sig-
Dify growing pressuxe on the country-s transport system.
1.02      While the area coverage of the country-s txansport system is genexally
adequate, the system-s pexfoxmance is to a considerable exteDt not yet in line
with market demands. Modal complementarity is still inadequately developed. Not
only have substantial elements of the system detexiorated, but many facilities
are obsolete in concept and cannot provide efficient services, made possible
through modern, cost-saving txansport technologies. System obsoleteness implies
avoidable transport costs and growing impediments to domestic and foreign trade
development. However, to reduce the country's vulnerability to changes in the
oil market, the export txade needs to be divexsified, and export commodities have
to be competitive on the world maxket. Both objectives axe cxitically dependent
on efficient transport arrangements. Increasingly complex linkages of the rapidly
growing domestic trade also require cost-effective transport provisions.
1.03      During 1982 and 1983 the prevailing condition and future prospects
of the Indonesian economy changed dxamatically as a result of the worldwide
xecession and the decline of oil prlces. The latter is sexious fox Indonesia,
as 60% of govexrment revenues are taxes levied on oil companies, and 70% of
foxeign exchaDge eaxnings are dexived from petroleum exports. The oil boom
during the 1970s temporarily released the Indonesian economy from restraints
of foxeign exchange and domestic budget limitations, which enabled GOI to
absorb inefficiencies iD xesource use. As one of the results, large and in-
creasing subsidies and xevenue deficits materialized iD the txanspoxt sector.



- 2 -
Howevex, the recession has evidenced the need to reduce and eventually eliminate
subsidies and deficit financing and to move the sector towards commercial via-
bility.
1.04      GOI xecognizes that in a condition of resource shoxtage, changes will
be necessaxy to mobilize private sectox funds such that a reasonable xate of
ecooomic growth can be maintained. The principal change needed is relaxation of
govexnment contxol ovex sectoxs of the economy that are potentially suitable for
commexcial type opexation, fox which the transport sectox is a pxime candidate.
The economy has gXown to a point where centralized planning of transport supply
needs to be replaced by a system more oriented and responsive to changes in the
volume and structuxe of demand. In practice, this implies that the public sec-
tor concentrate on the pxovision and maintenance of infxastructure, leaving the
pxivate sector to supply the services.
1.05      Faced with buoyant transpoxt demand, substantial sectox subsidy re-
quixements, and at the same time xeduced financial resources, GOI uxgently needs
to pursue a policy aimed at impxoving the efficiency of existing transpoxt re-
sources and increasing the the level of cost recovery in the sector.  A sectox
environment has to be established and specific incentives have to be introduced
which axe conducive to attracting private capital and initiatives.
B. The Transport System
1.06      The txansport system in Indonesia includes all major modes:  sea, high-
way, railway, air, and river traDsport.  The sea transport system compromises ap-
proximately 300 ports and numexous landing points. In 1983, the domestic fleet
included 8,150 ships with a total dead weight tonnage (DWT) of moxe than 4.6 mil-
lion. Fuxther details on the maxitime subsectox axe given in Chaptex II. The
principal highway road network included 148,000 km in 1983, and there were about
4.6 million motorized vehicles on Indonesia-s roads. The country has inhexited
an extensive railway network from pre-independence days, compxising some 6,000
route-km and covering all of Java and paxts of Sumatxa. Presently there axe 53
classified airports iD IndoDesia and several hundred smallez, non-classified air-
fields. The total number of commercial aircraft in operation exceeded 700 in
1983. Several thousaDd km of navigable waterways axe among Indonesia-s river
systems on which about 10,000 xiver craft are estimated to operate.
1.07      The xole and importance of each mode in addressing transport demand
vaxy among regions. There have also been marked diffexences in modal traffic
gxowth. Over the last ten years, annual traffic gxowth was vexy high for air
transport (22%), high to moderate fox highway (16%) and sea transport (12X),
and stagnant to negative fox rail transport. The share of each mode in total
passengex and caxgo traffic is presently as follows:
Mode                Passenger           Cargo
Road txansport              82%               70%
Railways                    11%                3%
Shipping                     2%               27%
Air transport                5%           less than 1%



- 3 -
However, these statistics do not convey the actual impoxtance of each mode in
addressing countxy-wide goods txansport demand. Movement of goods in Java is
96% by trucks, and accounts fox 81% of all cargo traffic oD roads in Indonesia.
The contribution of road transport to cargo movements on all othex islands is
substantially less. Intra-island cargo txaffic in Indonesia, excepting Java,
is predominantly handled by coastal shipping which commands a 57% market share,
and almost all intex-island cargo traffic is by sea (Table 1).
C. Txansport Development Plans and Financing
1.08      ID 1969, GOI initiated its fixst five-yeax development plan, REPELITA
I, covexing the period through March 1974. About 17% (Rp. 342 billion) of the
plan budget was allocated to the transpoxt sectox, but only Rp. 297 billion wexe
actually spent.  REPELITA II, spanning the period between 1974 and 1979, initially
allocated Rp. 500 billion to the transport sectox (16Z of the plan budget); Rp.
753 billion were actually spent. This sizeable iDcrease was possible through ex-
tra Government xevenues aftex the 1973 oil price hike. REPELITA III (1979-1984)
provided Rp. 2,998 billion (14X of the plan budget) for transport development.
The modal allocations in the three five-year development plans axe given in Table
2.  In drawing up the fourth five-year development plan, REPELITA IV, extending
fxom 1984 to 1989, GOI institutions had to addxess the problems associated with
reduced foxeign exchange eaxnings and inexeasingly severe budget limitations.
Several downward xevisions of early plan drafts took place. The perfoxmance of
REPELITA III duxing its last two years was also influenced by fiscal constraints.
The REPELITA IV development budget, as finally passed, and the respective modal
ailocations are shown in Table 3.
1.09      Of considerable burden to GOI-s budget xemain the costs of various
subsidy schemes iD the transport sector which have been devised over time to
offset appaxent inequalities and also to cover the difference between the reve-
nues and expenditures of state transport entexprises. However, a majox subsidy
in the sectox has been xemoved. Fox petroleum dexivatives used in transport,
subsidies amounted to Rp. 750 billion in 1980, because fuel was pxiced below
ruling international xates.  Between 1982 and 1984 GOI increased the pump prices
of fuel considerably, and today these prices are well above world market rates.
Cost xecovery in the highway sector has been limited, at levels of 40% to 50Z of
annual government outlays, but can now be expected to impxove, largely as a re-
sult of the 1984 genexal taxation refoxm which pxovides fox increased road user
charges.  The State Railways continue to be dependent on subsidies, amounting to
Rp. 60 - 80 billion per annum, and thexe remain several subsidy xequirements in
the maritime sector. The global sum requixed to opexate and maintain all Indo-
nesian ports in 1983 was Rp. 150 billion, whereas the combined revenues collected
in these ports during the same period was about Rp. 90 billion. GOI has also to
routinely support the domestic shipping industry with subsidies at estimated
annual levels of Rp. 25-30 billion.
D. Sector Management
1.10      Responsibility fox developing the transport system and organizing
its operations and maintenance is shaxed among thxee govexnment agencies. The
Ministry of Communications (MOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport



- 4 -
modes through its Directorates General of Air, Land and Sea Communications.
The Directorate General of Highways in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW),
manages the highway system.  The national planning agency, Badan Perencansan
Pembangunan Nasional (BAPPENAS), reviews sectoral investment plans dxawn up by
MOC aDd MPW and approves these investment plans under the development budget.
The organization of MOC and MPW are replicated at the provincial level, but
delegation of authoxity to the provincial bxanches has been slow. Because of
limited involvement of provincial governments in transport development plan-
ning and sectox management decision-making, development plans have often not
adequately reflected regional needs, and sector management arrangemeots lacked
effectiveness.
1.11     Also at the central level thexe remain problems, as txanspoxt sector
development planning, programming and budgetting is carxied out by the individ-
ual line agencies, generally without effective coordination. While BAPPENAS
has tried to balance modal investment pxograme, the absence of an ovexall trans-
port development and management strategy has hampered rational decision-making
concerning the most cost-effective role of each mode in the transport system.
A critical constxaint is the lack of effective mechanisms to compare the poten-
tial of optimizing the use of existing resources against the merits of proposed
new investments, and to assess overall transport system adjustment needs iD the
light of ongoing national and international developments. As a result, avoid-
able investment decisions are frequently taken, and the transport system re-
mains largely inflexible to changes in market conditions. To remedy this situ-
ation MOC is preparing a broad tranaport sector development guide, the Sistem
Perhubungan Nasional (SPN), which takes into account regional development plans
and comparative advantages of each transport mode. Paxallel to the preparation
of SPN, MOC's Directorates General of Land and Sea Communications are drawing
up comprehensive development plans for land and maritime transpoxt.  MOC also
InteDds to arzrange for Improved exploitation of the country's river network In
regions whexe the development and maintenance of land transport iofrastructuxe
would be very costly due to adverse topography and soil conditions, as in parts
of Kalimantan, Sumatra avd Irian Jaya. However, the Ministry-s capacity to deal
with all these demanding tasks remains limited. MOC is still among GOI's least
developed line agencies, and has typically not been able to utilize more thaD
60% of its annual budgets. In the past, MOC's sector pricing and taxation poli-
cies have tended to generate substantial subsidy requirements aDd occasionally
distortions in the provision of transport services. The regulatory framework
which governs the transport sector has thus been a major impediment to the evo-
lution of an efficient system, as subsidies often masked system inefficienclns,
impeded innovation and the search for low-cost solutions.
1.12      In early 1983 GOI issued an explicit policy directive which calls for
increasing commercial oxientation of public sector functions and liducing pri-
vatization in the transport sector. Consequently, many transport sector func-
tions which were managed by the government in the past are now scheduled to be
transferred to state enterprises, which either exist already, like the National
Toll Road Corporation (para. 1.14), or have been recently established for that
purpose, as in the case of port infrastructure (details are given in Chapter
III). These enterprises are mandated to provide efficient, demand-responsive
transport services and to become financially self-sufficient. In pursuit of
such objectives, the enterprises are entitled to apply commercial management
principles and to attract private participation in required investments. The



success of this undertaking will largely depend on how quickly and effectlvely
the enterprises can be geared up to deal with their assigned functions, as in-
tended by G00. To ensuxe a clear focus and associated management arrangements
fxom the start, all state enterprises io the txansport sector are required to
dsaw up corporate plans for Government endorsement.  These plans will establish
the framework in which the enterprilas will manage their functlons, with the Gov-
einment monitoring rather than controlling thelr actlvitles. A special office
and several task forces have been established under the MOC's Secretary General
to guide and monitor the state transport enterprlse. in thelr efforts to iaprove
operational efficiency and financlal performance.
E. Bank Sectos Support Stxategy
1.13      During the 1970s the Bank's sector support strategy focussed on re-
habilitating transport resources, mainly highways. This strategy was rightly
aimed at meeting basic requirements. However, as the economy expanded, lncreas-
lngly complex issues arose in the transport sector. There were the Identified
pxoblems of sector management, regulations and financing, but also the need to
modernize infrastructure and the transport industry. The Bank's comprehensive
transport sector survey in 1980 provided a broad analysis of these lssues and
problems, and established a general framework for required sector reforms. The
fiodings and recommendations under the survey were revlewed with GOI and found
general acceptance.  Subsequent lending operations had special provlsions to as-
asst the Government in arranging for some required high priority sector reforms.
Also, the concept of SPN, and the development plans for land and maritime trans-
port (para. 1.11) are the outcome of the Bank-GOI sector dialogue, and the Bank
Is financing technical assistance (Loans 1696 and 2120-IND) in the prepatation
of these plans.
1.14      An intermediate target of the Bank's sector support strategy in the
early 1980s was to assist in arranging for Improved cost recovery in the highway
subsector, and measurable progress has been achieved (para. 1.09). AnotheI facet
of Bank-Government cooperation in the sector (Loan 2049-IND) was the Introduction
of arrangements for private srctor participation In the financing of major high-
ways, to be commercially managed and operated. As a result, these major highways
are now built as toll roads with partial financing through bond sales in the do-
aestic capital market, and are administered by the NatSonal Toll Road Corporation,
which has been established and Is managed on the basis of commercial principles.
1.15      While there have been encouraging lmprovenents in the highway subsec-
tot, very substantial and complex problems In the transport sector remaln to be
resolved. The Government is committed to required sector reforms, but given the
problem complexities and institutional weaknesses, the adjustment process will
necessaxily be gradual. There are not only the problems of sector management,
regulation and financing, but the appropriate roles of the public and private
sector need to be more firmly established.  Also, a procedure has to be developed
whereby each of the existing transport modes is promoted in lire with Jts opera-
tional and cost advantages over competing modes, and modal complementaTity has to
be improved.
1.16      Against this backdrop, the Bank-s continuing sector support strategy is
two-fold. Through its sector policy dialogue the Bank assists GOI in analyzing



- 6 -
transport problms and issues, and in drawing up remedial measures. Proposed
future transport lending operations would thean lncremntally addrass such *sc-
tor problems and Implement reforms or adjustments in specific provisions which
have been identified as major obstace-s to efficlent sector performance and
transport resource utilizatlono  The thrust of this support strategy Is on:
(a)  Improving sector adminlstratlon through approptlate rastructuring
of the relevant llne agencies, necessary adjustments In organiza-
tional and procedural arrangments, and human rssoureas develop-
mant;
(b)  gradual reforms in sector regulation and system pricing to achieve
bettex demand responsiveness, improved cost recovery, and enhanced
domestic resource mobilization through Increased prlvate sector
participation in system development and operation; and
(c)  arranging for more efficient utilization of existing resources and
fostering transport network modernization.
-I. THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A. The Shipping Industry
2.01      The backbone of Indonesia's domestic shipplg industry are Regular
Liner Services (RLS) providing transport capacity on fixed routes and at fixed
intervals. RLS is complemented by short dlstance feeder services, called LOAL.
TraditLonal sIl boats (PERAEU), which are inctrasingly being motorized, ply the
country's sea lanes in se-rch of business. Several years ago COI instituted the
concept of pionee services (PERINTIS) by all modes, Licludiog shippLig, to pro-
vLde subsidized travsport to remote areas of the country, which are sparosly
populated and where transport demad is still low, to facilltate riLonal devel-
opment. The bulk of interLiland cargoes Is transported by Industry-owned car-
riers (KHUSUS), whlch are llcensed for that putpose. An overvliw of the domes-
tic shipplng Industry ln 1983 Is glven below.
Market Share
Category     No. of Ships       DWT      All cargoes     D!ry Caroes
Pow)    ----------(2)            
RLS                415          482          11.1             26.5
LOKAL            1,700          360           3.7              8.5
PERAHU          3,500           270           3.2              7.7
PERINTIS            35           21           0.1              0.3
KHUSUS           2,500        3,515          81.9             57.0
Total        8,150         4,648         100.0            100.0
The proportLon of old and technologically obsolete ships in the domestic ser-
vices is high, thus almost all ships are not readily geared to modern, low-cost
cargo handling arrangements.  The Interisland trade in Indonesia has yet beLn
little affected by the world revolution in unitized cargo handling.  Details on
the composition of the natlonal fleet and growth trends are given in Table 4.



2.02      The productivity of ships in the domestic fleet, particularly R1S
shlps, In low with between 10 *ad 15 t/DWT .hlp capacity carried par year.
An acceptable Industry norm would be 30 t/DWT/year. The common ratio of purt
to sailing time of a ship is 2:1, and frequently worse. This low performance
is partially due to conventional and therefora costly cargo handling practices
on board ships, but more lmportantly because of shortcomings tn the operation
of ports. Ships arze loaded/unloaded at an average rate of 150 t/day; port
labor productivity generally ranges between 6 and 8 t/gang-hour. Acceptable
standards would be 600 - 800 t/day, and 12 - 15 t/gang-hour. It is because
of these inafficlencies that as much as 65% of total sea ttansport costs are
generated In ports. To reduce sea transport costs In Indonesla, and particu-
laxly the port time of ships, there Is an urgent need to unitize, particularly
conptinerize seaborne cargoes. In line with experience elsewherz in the world,
cazgo unitizatlon would Induce aubstantlal reductions In handllng times, and
consequently lowzr sea transport costs.
2.03      There are also problems assoclated with trade coordination which af-
fect fleet productivity.  Presently more than 5,000 tradeor  are registered in
Indonesia. Coordination mong these traders and between the traders and the
shipping industry Is limited, and often lnefficlently gulded by governmnt ln-
stitutions. As a result, there are frequent discrepancies between available
cargo space and cargoes to be transported on lndividual routes. The conse-
quences are either substantlal delays In moving cargo, or underutillxed ship
capacity.  Ftetght documentation Is generally Incoherent, leading to further
impediments In seaborne cargo oanagment.
B. Port Infrastructure and Operations
2.04      The country's port Infrastructurte is geographically falrly evenly
distributed. There are more than 300 individual ports, some 45 of which
have annual cargo throughputs In excess of 200,000 t. The most important
ports are Taojung Priok and Surabaya (Java), Delawan (Sumatra), and Ujung
Pandang (Sulaweml). Ihelt key statlstics are:
Cargo handled In 1983      Annual Cargo Growth trend (1977-83)
Internatlonal   Domostic          International    Domestic
- (million t)-------   -----------^-----()-----------
Tanjung Priok        7.0           2.3                 17.5           14.5
Surabaya             4.9           2.7                 16.0           13.0
Belawan              3.3           2.4                  9.0           16.0
Ujung Pandang        1.8           1.3                  8.5           10.0
International cargo flows through all Indone-sin ports have grown at average
annual rates of 7.5Z siDce the mid-1970s. whereas dooestIc cargoes Increased
at average annual rates of 132 durlg the same period.  Typically, there are
substantial lobalsnces of Incoming and outgoing cargoes In ports; in interna-
tional trade, ratios of 5 (in) to 1 (out) are not uncomon.
2.05      Almost all ports In Indonesia were established during pre-indepen-
dence days. The lay-out of these ports and port facility cooflguratlons were
derived from design concepts and cargo handling artrangemoents which reflect the



- 8 -
applicable technologies and maritime industry customs during the first decades
of this century. Except for the ports of Tanjung Priok, Surabaya and Belawan,
very few physical adjustments have been made over the last 25 years to the
couDtxy-s port system. The majority of Indonesia-s ports is therefoxe pxe-
sently not equipped fox introducing modern technology, low-cost cargo handling
arxangements. Yet, the need to facilitate uxgently xequixed cargo unitization
implies necessary adjustments in port layouts and facility configurations.
2.06      In many ports, vital installations like quays, xoad infrastructuxe,
utilities and godowns are badly deteriorated. As a xesult, caxgo movements axe
slow, and a significant percentage of caxgo is damaged in the process. Caxgo
handling equipment is often in poor state of repaix, and port basins and access
channels have only been infrequently dxedged, leading to limited throughput
capacities. Water supply and bunker facilities in poxts axe in many cases iD-
adequate, which contributes to ship waiting time.
2.07      Most land-side management of cargo in Indonesian ports is done by ship-
ping companies, which generally give priority to theix own ships, xegardless of
arrival dates and berthing time. Consequently, other ships have to wait and lim-
ited quay space is blocked fox sometimes long pexiods. In all poxts there is a
labor pool (YUKA), which is oxganized and managed by a supervisoxy body composed
of representives from the maxitime administration, the Ministxy of Manpower, the
Shipowner-s Association, and the Labor Unions. Each terminal opexatox is obliged
to use YUKA labox ovex which he has no disciplinary contxol. High xates of absen-
teeism axe common, and labor pxoductivity is generally low because thexe axe no
incentives for improving performance.
2.08      Thexe axe several services which are involved in processing a ship ox
cargo through each port. These sexvices include the harbour mastex, customs au-
thorities, texminal operatoxs, freight forwaxders, and a host of bxokexs. The
woxking houxs of each service and the availability of sexvice agents axe gener-
ally not coordinated. It is particularly the customs inspection services which
have caused substantial additions to ship waiting and cargo handling times. All
cargoes, including shipments with countxy internal oxigins and destinations, were
subject to a stringent and time-consuming customs cleaxance pxoceduxe, which was
introduced during pre-independence days.
C. Maritime Administration
2.09      The maxitime system is administered by the Directorate General of Sea
Communications (DGSC). Until 1983 Indonesia's port system was managed by DGSC
through its xegional bxaDches in each of the country-s nine maritime districts.
Most day-to-day decisioD-making COnCerDiDg poxt operations and port development
planning took place in DGSC-s Jakarta headquartexs. This highly centralized
sectox management has tended to stymie initiatives by regional port administra-
tions. Port development plans and their timing did freqtuently not meet regional
needs. Centralized decision-making generally also caused substantial delays in
arranging fox xequixed actions in ports, as the line of communications between
central and xegional authorities was not always satisfactoxy.
2.10      A particulax problem in the past were the financial practices in the
administration of ports which were characterized by lack of consistency. The



- 9 -
delineation between DGSC and the ports- financial management responsibilities
were loosely defined. Acceptable standards of accounting were often not ad-
hered to, regulations and laws govexning the financial conduct of ports were
frequently violated, and general financial policie3 and their implications were
unclear and sometimes contradictory. The laws and xegulations which govern the
maritime sector wexe to a considexable extent devised and promulgated duxing
pre-independence years; several of these legal provisions were intxoduced dur-
ing the 1800s.  ID today's sector envixonment and market conditions many of
these laws and regulations have become hindxances to requixed system reforms.
2.11      Resulting from the concentratioD of sector administxation in DGSC
headquarters and the continuing expertise constraints within the agency, many
sector management functious were handled inefficiently. In particular, sector
planning, programming and budgetting was inadequate. There was no coherent
strategy fc- sector development and operatioD.  Also, there was no effective
arrangement for monitoring the performance of the various elements of the mari-
time system, noX a mechanism for observing and analyzing ongoing market trends,
ox determining required maxitime system adjustments in light of these trends.
Consequently, the maritime sector development plans which underlay the REPELITA
provisions had a limited analytical basis and did not tie into an overall sector
development strategy. The consequences were that sector iDvestments wexe often
scheduled either prematurely ox inadequately, because there had not been appro-
priate needs assessments. Partly because of the cumbersome management arrange-
ments between DGSC headquaxtexs and its regional branches, it frequently hap-
pened that annual investment budgets were substantially undexspent.  Provisions
under the annual operating budgets for the maritime sector have often been in-
adequate. The main reason for this problem was that budget parameters were not
adjusted in liDe with inflation, and quantity estimates wexe not based on ade-
quate needs assessments.
2.12      As a critical first step in modernizing and decentralizing the maritime
sector administration, the axxangements for planning and managing Indonesia-s
main ports were changed in mid 1983. This change paxtially came about as a re-
sult of the BaDk-s sector policy dialogue, and the continuing follow-up support
work that has since been done. Newly established pulblic port corporations have
been entrusted with these tasks. DGSC will continue for some time to manage the
smallex ports and will xemain responsible for all othex elements of maritime
infrastructure, such as navigational aids, faixways and communication systems.
DGSC will also remain responsible for all safety and security aspects of mari-
time txansport and contiDue to be xepresented in all parts thxough the harboux
master.
2.13      While the first important step in decentralization of the maritime ad-
ministxation is takiDg place in respect of the port subsector, DGSC continues to
oversee the shipping industry, freight forwarders, and to some extent the traders,
which is in line with the normal functions of a sea communications administration.
DGSC has decided to establish special offices responsible for seaborne trade co-
oxdination and improving freight documentation, and to pxovide advisory services
in cargo unitization. However, DGSC-s capacity to deal with all these functions
remains limited.  The organizational and procedural arrangements in DGSC, and its
institutional set-up are still not fully adequate for effectively dealing with
the agency-s mandate. In addition, there xelmain sexious constxaints in manage-
ment and professional expertise among DGSC's staff; training arrangements have
not always been effective.



- 10 -
D. The Maritime Sector Development Progxam
2.14      Since xeviewing with the Bank the findings and xecommendations of the
Transpoxt Sectox Suxvey (paxa. 1.13) in December 1980, GOI has alxeady taken
several important steps aimed at impxoving maritime transport. A bxoad concept
fox xeorganizing the maritime sector was established through the Integrated Sea
Transpoxt Study (ISTS) which had been caxried out during the period 1980-82 by
the Maritime Reseaxch Institute Netherlands (MARIN). MARIN recommended a re-
structuxing of the shipping industry and its route system, togethex with a cor-
responding adjustment In port infrastructure. A principal element of the recom-
mended set-up axe interisland liner services (ILS). At the heart of these xecom-
mendations are least-cost arrangements fox sea transport of general cargo through
complementary trunk-feeder shipping services, and supporting infiastructure com-
posed of a hierarchy of functionally interdependent ports, all of which would be
conducive to reaping the benefits of seaboxDe cargo unitization.
2.15      In early 1982 GOI endorsed the ISTS xecommeDdations in principle, be-
cause it was felt that there remained a need to test the validity and practical-
ity of many of these recommendations. Also it soon became apparent that insti-
tuting xequired reforms in the maxitime subsector, and to generally attain re-
quired substantial Improvement in system perfoxmance, would require changes in
existing laws and regulations, oxganizational and proceduxal arxangements, physi-
cal adjustments to maritime infrastxuctuxe and the merchant fleet, and acquisi-
tion of know-how and experience. Thus, DGSC drew up a related action program iD
March 1982, which would henceforth be refexred to as Maxitime Sector Development
Program (MSDP). Duxing its first phase MSDP was to further analyze the essential
sectot shortcomings and to devise remedial measures. Consequently, 15 task forces
were established between June and Decembex 1982 to deal with diffexent aspects of
the maritime subsector, including administration and management, the legislative
framewoxk, operation and management of the poxt infrastructure, customs proce-
dures, the shipping and ship-building industries, and required txaining and human
resources development. A schematic overview of MSDP and the status of the dif-
ferent actions is given in ADnex 1.
2.16      The Eastern part of Indonesia was chosen for testing the proposed ILS
system, and a task force was set up to monitox the effects of intxoduced changes
in the provision of shipping services and port management. In the light of its
observations the task force is adjusting the proposed ILS system, such that it
would become practicable and produce the expected benefits.  This process was
started in late 1983 and is scheduled for completion by December 1985.  Once the
optimal axrangements for shipping services and associated port management are
established, they would be introduced in the rest of Indonesia's maritime system.
However, any adjustment to the provision of shipping and port services should be
flexible and be based on market decisions, rather than be rigorously enforced
by decxee. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that the experi-
mental scheme for improving shipping and poxt sexvices will be efficiently imple-
mented in accordance with an action plan of November 1984. The action plan is
satisfactory. Details are in the project file.
2.17      As an important fixst step in support of MSDP, GOI decided to delink the
management of key ports from DGSC (paxa. 2.12), and four new public poxt corpora-
tions were established in May 1983. These new port corporatioDs are organized as



- 11 -
Perusahaans Umum (PERUMs). Under Indonesian law, PERUHs are state enterprises
with GOI as sole shareholder.  PERUMs are mandated to operate and be managed in
live with commercial principles, and to strive for financial self-sufficiency.
At the same time, PERUMs are required to support GOI-s social policy objectives,
whenever possible. In the pursuit of this requirement, PERUMs may obtain gov-
ernment financial support, if and when necessary. The four new public port
corporations, PERUMS Pelabuhan (PERUHPELs) axe headquartered iD the country's
four main ports (paxa. 2.04). 'Each PERUMPEL has its defined zone of responsi-
bility. Fox details of the PERUMPELs geographic organization see Map IBRD
18065. The PERUMPELs will manage the key 90 of the country-s 300+ ports. All
remaining small ports will continue to be managed by DGSC through its regional
branches. Transfer of the smaller ports to the public port corpozations will
be considered after a few years, which are required to firmly establish the
organizational arrangements under the new port administration set-up. The man-
date, responsibilities and prerogatives of PERUMPEL II, the Public Port Corpora-
tion II, are described in Chapter III; the provisions for the other PERUMPELs
are identical. As PERUMPEL II incorporates the most important elements of Indo-
nesia-s maritime subsector, GOI has decided that effective measures for Improv-
ing port management and operations should be elaborated with priority in Public
Port Corporation II, and subsequently be xeplicated in other public port corpora-
tions.
E. Government Maritime Policy Reforms
2.18      In its pursuit to diversify the country's export base and thus to re-
duce the economy-s vulnerability to changes in the oil market, GOI increasingly
recognized that such attempts were seriously hampered by inefficiencies in the
maritime subsector. Cumbersome administrative arrangements, obsolete legislative
and regulatory provisions, as well as the many vested interest compounded these
problems. These problems have been long-standing and deep-rooted, given the
large and powerful bureaucracies which have evolved in the customs and ports.
Several of the country-s major trade partners had shown growing concern about
all these circumstances and pointed to the inevitable repercussions on bilateral
trade relations. Equally important, the high cost of sea transport were iD-
creasingly perceived as a substantial impediment to domestic trade development,
and consequently to the country-s economic progress.
2.19      During the early months of 1985 GOI reviewed at a senior level the
various MSDP findings and recommendations, and assessed the impact of identified
sectox shortcomings on the performance of trade and of the different elements of
the maritime subsector. The decision was taken that only radical reforms in mari-
time and trade policies could effect urgently required system improvements. In
order to reduce excessive regulation and bring down costs associated with customs,
ports operations and shipping, on April 4, 1985 the Government announced, through
the Presidential Instruction No. 4 (INPRES 4/85) on Ports and Shipping, far-
reaching and sweeping reforms. INPRES 4/85 was followed shortly thereafter by a
set of implementing instructions, decrees and regulations issued by MDC and the
Ministries of Finance (NOF) and Trade (MOT). These reforms profoundly affect
all aspects of trade proceduxes, particularly customs, ports and shipping opera-
tions.



- 12 -
2.20      Concerning customs, the Dew measures drastically reduce the requixed im-
port and expoxt foxmalities to a bare minimim, i.e. import certification report by
a Government-appointed suxveyor, bills of lading and proof of payment of duty.
Export goods are no longex subject to regulax customs inspection; exports subject
to export certificates, however, will be inspected by Government-appointed sur-
veyors at the ports of destination. Impoxts, on the othex hand, will in inspected
at ports of origin by Government-appointed suxveyors, who would also cextify type,
quality and volume of goods, prices at points of origin, tariff category and ap-
plicable import duties. Under these new procedures, the involvement of the cus-
toms authorities will be limited to ensuring that documents noted above are com-
pleted, and caxgo will be promptly released fxom Indonesian ports. Assessment
of import duties and othex taxes will now be made by importers or exporters
themselves on the basis of surveyors- certification, and they will make duty
payments to designated banks. The new regulations thus provide fox speedy re-
lease of caxgo, simplification of document processing and improved valuation
procedures, and should result in substantial savings of cost and time. Customs
inspection of cargoes with country intexral oxigins aDd destlnation (paxa. 2.08)
have been completely abolished.
2.21      With xegard to poxt operations and management, INPRES 4/85 and the com-
plementing ministerial xegulations set a framework fox (a) faix and equal treat-
ment of all ocean-going linex and confexence ships, regardless of their countxy
of origin; (b) streamlined terminal operations and freight foxwarding; and (c)
effective coordination of all port services. Foxeign ships do not any longer
need the pieviously required permit to enter a port, and can call on any port in
Indonesia, which is open for intexnational trade. Foxeign shipping companies axe
free to choose any local agent to act on theix behalf; previously they were re-
quixed to be repxesented by Indonsian shipping companies. Harbour dues payable
by foreign flag liner and conference carxiers have been reduced to the same level
applicable to national ocean-going shipping companies; previously foreign car-
riers paid roughly double the dues charged to domestic shipping companies.
2.22      Mandatory texminal opexations by domestic shipping companies (para.
2.07) will be discontinued within 12 months after the promulgation of INPRES 4/
85. Thereafter terminal operations will be carried out by special companies
which have been established for that purpose. These companies will have to
compete for terminal operation licenses in each port, and will have to provide
services on the basis of contractually agxeed performance standards. YUKA will
be reoxganized and its management streamlined; port worker wages have been sub-
stantially incxeased. A compulsory three-shift 24 hour service for loading and
unloading cargoes in poxts has been introduced.  To improve handling of goods
and documentation, such functions now can be undertaken not only by appointed
cleaxing agents but also by shipping ox forwarding companies, or by the importers
and exporters directly. The past multitude of port chaxges and fees has been
consolidated and simplified. Cargo loading and unloading charges have been xe-
duced.
2.23      In realization of the overriding importance for improving port pro-
ductivity, INPRES 4/85 established the position of port administrators to ensure
that the various services in each port are coordinated and effectively monitored.
The port administrators are responsible for ensuring efficient and coordinated
provisions of all services, public or pxivate, in ports. To these ends the port
administrators axe empowexed with substantial authority; they report dixectly to
the Ministex of Communications.



- 13 -
2.24      INPEES 4/85 pxovides also for several measures which represent major
steps in deregulating inter-island shipping. The various requirements imposed
on shipping companies providing domestic services, such as freight documents
and fiscal statements, have been removed. Domestic sea freight tariffs have
been consolidated and simplified. Effective immediately, GOI will fix tariff
ceilings. The actual sea freight charges will be negotiated between shippers
and shipping companies. An overview of the principal features of INPRES 4/85
is given in ADDex 2.
2.25      The drastic and far-reaching nature of the reforms embodied in INPRES
4/85 are a clear indication of GOI-s determination to remove administrative and
procedural impedir_onts to achieving a smoother flow of goods, reducing sea trans-
port costs and increasing efficiency in maritime operations.  The implementation
of these measures will be a major challenge; but given time and the Government-s
commitment to the reforms, there is little reason to doubt that significant pro-
gress is likely to be achieved in improving customs and ports operations, and the
provision of shipping services.
F.  Bank Maxitime Subsector Support
2.26      To date the Bank has supported GOI in its effort to develop the mari-
time transport system through three lending operations.  The First Shipping
Project (Credit 318-IND, US$8.5 m) was completed in 1979. The project was es-
sentially aimed at rehabilitating RLS ships. The Second Shipping Project (Loan
1250-IND, US$54 m) was completed in 1984 and had an expanded scope by providing
financial assistance for ship procurement; it also helped to establish r.T. Pann
(PANN), the National Fleet Development Corporation. Under the project, PANN pur-
chased secoDd-hand ships and leased them to shipping companies which had the op-
tiop to buy such ships.
2.27      The Project Performance Audit Report (SecM83-299) for the First Shipping
Project states that while the aims of the project were desirable, they have not
been achieved. Expected ship productivity improvements did not materialize be-
cause IDA did not attempt to deal with regulatory issues. The project iDcluded
consultant services and technical assistance for several studies and investiga-
tions to determine ways and means for improving fleet utilization, ship safety
and the management of shipping companies. Also a number of training programs were
axranged for a wide vaxiety of shipping industry personnel and DGSC staff involved
in maritime industry administration. The results of these Dumerous foxas of tech-
nical assistance and training have not always been encouraging, and there was only
limited follow-up on the recommendations under the studies and lnvestigations.
2.28      Implementation of the Second Shipping Project was a noticeable Improve-
ment over the experience gained under the first project.  There were still weak-
nesses in institutional follow-up on study findings and recommendations, but to
a much lesser extent. The results of training programs continued to be signifi-
cantly impaired by inadequate organizational arrangements and personnel manage-
ment. However, the project contributed substantially to initiating required
sector refoxms through ISTS and other sector analyses.
2.29      The third Bank sector lending operation was the Tanjung Priok Port Pro-
ject (Loan 1337-IND, US$32 m), which was completed in 1984. Undex this project



- 14 -
the domestic traffic section of the port was improved and expanded. Most impor-
tantly, however, the pxoject was instxumental in establishing containex handling
capacity in the poxt. As a result of the project, annual container traffic gxew
from almost nil to 1.4 million t iD six years. The pxoject also included a num-
ber of studies and agreed actions aimed at improving the ovexall productivity of
the port. Follow-up on the study xecommendations and agreed actions were less
than satisfactory during the initial period but impxoved measurably during the
final years of pxoject implementation. Project Completion Reports for the Second
Shipping and Tanjung Priok Port Pxojects have been prepared.
2.30      As part of its sector support strategy, the Bank helped GOI is asses-
sing maritime transpoxt problems and issues, and in drawing up MSDP. All tech-
nical assistance in MSDP preparation and the implementation of the first HSDP
action plans was financed with pxoceeds out of Loans 1250, 1337 and 2120-IND
(National Fertilizer Distxibution Project). The Bank also assisted in neces-
sary reviews of selected key ports, and the preparation of port development
and opexations impxovement schemes; details axe given in Chapters III and IV.
In the meantime several multilateral and bilateral institutions have joined the
Bank in assisting GOI to improve maritime transport under MSDP, iDcluding intex
alia ADB, KfW and JICA (in port development), and the Dutch Government (in poxt
worker training).
2.31      Parallel to its continuing sector dialogue, the Bank will arrange for
lending operations which would address high priority needs in the maritime traos-
port subsectox and increasingly aim at rectifying system shoxtcomings. Integral
parts of this strategy would be gradual decentxalizatioD of sector management
functions, increasing commercialization of maxitime infrastructu-re and services,
and progressive liberalization of subsector regulations. The othex lending in-
stitutions (para. 2.23) have indicated that their maxitime transport support
programs in Indonesia would be guided by the same principles.
2.32      The lessons to be learned fxom the completed thxee Bank lending opera-
tions in maritime transpoxt reinforce the assessment that problem complexities
and institutional weaknesses will dictate the extent to which policy, institu-
tional and procedural reforms can be successfully tackled undex any individual
lending operation. Most importantly however, there is Government commitment to
improve maritime transport performance (para. 2.25), and the urgent need to ar-
range for such improvements has been cleaxly identified. Given the magnitude
and impact of poxt inefficiencies on maritime transport performance (para. 2.02),
the Bank's next lending operations should focus essentially on port and cargo
management related problems. The National Ports Development Project has been
appraised along these lines.
III. THE PUBLIC PORT CORPORATION II
A. The Setting
3.01      In line with GOI's decision to commercialize aDd to delink from the
sea communications administration the management of the country's major ports
(para. 2.17), the Public Port Corporation II (PERUMPEL II) was established as
one of the four new public port corporations which will manage these ports in the
future. The enacting legislation includes Presidential Decrees, dated April 25,



- 15 -
1983, and Minister of Communications Regulations, dated October 21, 1983, which
complement the Presidential Decrees. Fox each public poxt corporation there are
sepaxate but in content identical decrees and regulations. This new legislation
supersedes all existing laws and regulatioos which have governed port opexations
and management in the past. Like all other public poxt coxporations, PERUMPEL II
was established on May 1, 1983, and became operational on January 1, 1984.
3.02      Under the enacting legislation PERUWPEL II 's mandate is (a) to build,
equip and maintain all land- and sea-side port installations and ancillary fa-
cilities, required for efficient handling of ships, goods and passengers, and
(b) to provide all port services, such as pilotage and terminal opezations in
the Corporation-s administrative zone. In complyiDg with this mandate, PERUMPEL
II has the prerogative to determine the most suitable modalities and arrange-
ments for developing, maintaining and opexating port facilities. The Corpoxa-
tion is also responsible for planning necessary infrastructure improvements and
developments to meet changing port user requirements.
3.03      The administrative zone of PERUMPEL II covers the southerD half of
Sumatra, West Kalimantan and West Java, and encompasses an area where presently
most domestic and international trade is genexated. For details see Map IBRD
18065. The main port in the zone is Tanjung Priok, Indonesia-s most important
gateway. Tanjung Priok and all other key ports (19 in total) in the zone are
to be managed by PERUMPEL II. Next to Tanjung Priok the most important ports
in the PERUMPEL II zone are Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang, and Pontianak.
Teluk Bayur is the only major port on the west coast of Sumatra and serves a
hinterland where extensive agricultural, industrial and mining developments take
place.  The Port of Panjang is located at the southern tip of Sumatra and serves
the Lampung and Bengkulu Provinces with important agricultural activities and
transmigration schemes.  Panjang is also the sea outlet fox the Bukit Asam Coal
Mining Project which is presently being implemented with Bank assistance (Loan
2079-IND). Palembang is a rivex port, about 100 km inland, and serves the pro-
vince of South Sumatra; it is the site of important and fast growing fertilizex,
cement and oll xefiDing industries, which generate substantial sea transport de-
mand. The Port of Pontianak is the only important sea outlet oD the west coast
of Kalimantan; it is located 20 km upstream from the estuary of the Kapuas Kecil
River. Transport infrastructure in West Kalimantan is very limited; most move-
ments take place on the region's extensive river system, of which PoDtianak is
the terminal.
3.04      Except for Tanjung Priok, all ports in the PERUMPEL II zone are char-
acterized by substantially deteriorated installations and system obsoleteness.
With Bank assistance, modern cargo handling arrangements were established in
Tanjung Pxiok (para. 2.29), but given the situation in all other PERUMPEL II
ports, there are serious impediments to improving efficiency. Therefore, ex-
port cargoes generally have to be shipped to Tanjung Pxiok for unitization be-
fore being seDt overseas. Similarly, imported goods incxeasingly arrive unit-
ized in Tanjung Priok and geDerally have to be separated there before shipment
to the final destinatioD ports in the PERUMPEL II zone, as thexe is very lim-
ited capacity fox handling unitized cargoes in those ports. Because of these
cargo handling constraints, direct shipments between the PERUMPEL II ports and
other ports in Indonesia cannot be unitized to any considerable extent, and
therefore be handled cost-effectively.



- 16 -
3.05      Between 1979 and 1982 DGSC commissioned the pxeparation of plans fox
improving the ports of Tanjung Priok, Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang and
Pontianak. The objective was to adjust these ports to projected caxgo In-
creases. The xesulting investment proposals wexe very costly, e.g. US$250
million for a new international containex terminal in Tanjung Priok, and
US$170 million for a sizeable port expansion in Teluk Bayux. As one of the
first actions undex MSDP, the conditions and operating arrangements, and traf-
fic pxojections in these key ports were cxitically analyzed. The findings were
that in each port in the PERUMPEL II zone thexe was considerable unutilized
capacity potential, but existing installations would have to be rehabilitated
and often upgraded to improve efficiency. Also, port operations and management
arrangements would need to be modified. Most significantly, some provisions
would have to be made for establishing unitized caxgo handling capacity in all
the ports, except Tanjung Pxiok, such that modern and low-cost cargo management
procedures would be initiated. GOI agreed to the approach and commissioned the
preparation of poxt development mastexplans and optimization schemes in line
with the study findiDgs. As an impoxtant guideline, previously not existing
uniform port opexations and design standaxds were established with Bank assis-
tance (para. 2.30). When the plans and schemes were completed it was shown
that the originally proposed investments in the five ports could be reduced by
50% in Palembang and Pontianak, 65% in Teluk Bayur and 75% in Tanjung Priok.
B. Organization and ManagemeDt
3.06      Like all other public utility corporatioDs in Indonesia, PERUMPEL II
Is under the supervisory control of the responsible line ministxy, in this case
MOC. A Board of Supexvisoxs (DEPENG) has been established and includes xepxe-
sentatives from HOC, MOF, MOT, the xelevant provincial govexrments, and the pott
users. DEPENG repoxts dixectly to the Minister of Communications. The Minister
has the ultimate authority to sanction port tariffs which have been elaboxated
by PERUMPEL II administrators within the framework of broad financial policy and
management guidelines, issued by MOC. These guidelines and the legislation which
governs PERUMPEL II give Corporation managexs sufficient latitude to arrange for
measures requixed to meet the mandate of pxoviding efficient port sexvices and to
strive for financial self-sufficiency. The Minister also approves PERUMPEL II's
anDual capital and recurxent budgets.
3.07      The Coxporation is administered and managed by a Board of Directors,
which includes the Managing Director as chairman and the Dixectors of Operations
(to manage port services, terminal operations and pilotage), Technical Affairs
(to manage construction, supply and maintenance of port facilities and equipment),
Finance (to manage financial matters), and Personal/General Administration (to
manage personnel, administration, legal matters, and public relations). An in-
ternal audit unit reports directly to the Managing Director. The five directors
and their reporting staff form the PERUMPEL II headquaxters, which Is located in
Jakarta. The organization scheme of the Public Poxt Corporation II is given in
Chaxt 1. The Coxporation has branch offices in each of the poxts undex its jur-
isdiction. The organization scheme fox the Port of Tanjung Priok is shown in
Chart 2, and for the Ports of Teluk Bayur, P.njang, Palembang, and Pontianak in
Chart 3. The organization and staffing of each branch office is tailored to the
size and importance of a particular port In the PERUMPEL II zone. The institu-
tional set-up of PERUMPEL II, and its administrative arrangements are satisfactoxy



- 17 -
to the Bank.  Key functions have been established and corresponding staff have
been appointed. In most cases former DGSC port pexsonnel in Maxitime District
III, which coincides with the PERUMPEL II zone, were transfexred to basically the
same duties. The expexience of most Corporation staff in dealing with corporate
management and in organizing port operations Is generally still limited. As a
first prioxity, PERUMPEL II managers had to be provided with required know-how for
effectlvely guiding the prepaxation of the Coxporation-s administrative and opera-
tional procedures. A specially designed tralning crash pxogram for PERUMPEL II
managers was thexefoxe carried out (Paxapat Associates, Indonesia, and Port and
Transport Consulting (PTC), an affiliate of the Port of Bremen (FRG), with Bank
financing (Loan 2120-IND). The crash pxogram was successful and pxovided Coxpox-
ation managers with the necessary expertise to effectively guide the preparation
of port operations and management plans. Undex the project uxgently required
training of other CoXporation personnel will be arranged.
3.08      The general policy and procedural principles and criteria for PERUMPEL
II management have been established, and axe satisfactory to the Bank. These
pxinciples have been txanslated into general operational standards, guidelines
and arxaDgements, which are reflected in a coxporate plan, which the Corporatlon
had to prepare like all other state transpoxt entexprises in IDdonesia (para.
1.12). A summary descxiption of the plan provisions is given in Annex 3. The
plan represents the first attempt of any state transport enterprise to establish
the now required fxamework for corporate management. While the proposed approach-
es and arxangements for Corporation management axe satisfactory, details of the
pxoposed organizational and procedural arxangements need to be appropriately ad-
justed, as indispensible experience in port administration under the new rules
and xegulations is gained. Such arrangements will be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.09      Particulaxly impoxtant for PERUMPEL II management are financial poli-
cies and pxocedures which will be conducive to attaining the Corporation-s man-
date. As a PERUM the Corporation is not expected to maximize profits but to in-
creasingly finance the operating expenditures in all its ports and to contribute
substantially to required investments through intexnally generated funds. Accor-
ding to the provisions of the PERUM legislation, additionally required capital
may be received through (a) domestic and foreign loans, (b) bond issues, and (c)
other sources approved by the Minister of Communications. Furthermore, the legis-
lation provides that the Corporation may receive allocations from the national
budget fox financing development and operating costs.
3.10      The ports which PERUMPEL II and the othex public port corporations took
under their responsibilities presently reflect a wide spectrum in terms of physi-
cal conditions, opexating efficiencies and financial pexformance. In many of
these ports usex chaxges have not been changed for sevexal yeaxs, while inflation
caused continuous cost increases, which generated growing subsidy requirements.
PERUMPEL II management is therefore confronted with the need to adjust port user
charges in addition to an all-out effort to reduce operating expenditures. The
Coxporation's early problem of limited cash flow is aggravated by the fact that
PERIJMPEL II, like all other PERUMS in Indonesia, has to remit a substantial pro-
portion (742) of its gross income to the Government in the form of coxporate
taxes and contributions to the Ovexall Development Fund (DPS). GOI recognizes
that the new public port corporations will therefoxe be hard tested during their
formative years in trying to achieve financial self-sufficiency in the face of
tlme xequired to effect opexational improvements, and public sensitivities re-



- 18 -
garding taxiff increases. No doubt, financial self-sufficiency has to be
xeached within a reasonable timeframe of, say, six to eight years, through
pxogxessive impxovements in financial and operational pexfoxmance. Such
strategy Is supported by GOI, the poxt managements, and user groups. In the
interim and until such condition is achieved, GOI will asslst the public port
corporations In financing investment requirements.
3.11      Until the end of 1983, the Tanjung Priok Port Administration used an
accounting system which has served the poxt reasonably well. However, this ac-
counting system lacks the flexibility required to accom odate the new procedures
and financial management arrangements fox ports. Thus a new accounting system,
adjusted to the specific requirements of the new port administration, was drawn
up by HOC in 1982. However, the system is not fully adequate yet, as it does
not allow for a calculation of costs in sufficient detail to pxovide meaningful
information for decision-making and tariff setting. PERUMPEL II management have
recognized this shortcoming; with Bank financed (Loan 2120-IND) technical assis-
tance, the proposed system will be adjusted by December 31, 1985. In the mean-
time the old system is used. During negotiations PERUMPEL II agreed to lDtro-
duce the new accounting system in Corporation management not latex than July 1,
1986.
3.12      As an important step towards sound financial management, the opening
balance sheets for PERUMPEL II have to be foxmalized by 001. The closing balance
sheets fox all Corporation ports which were pxeviously under the administration of
Maritime District III (paxa. 3.07) wexe legalized in January 1985. Au officially
appointed liquidation committee, composed of representatives fxom several GOI line
agencies, has alxeady dxafted the opening balance sheets for Government appxoval.
The provisions of the draft balance sheets are satisfactory to the Bank, and pro-
vide, inter alia, that PERUMPEL II be liable for all past due and still unpaid
tax obligations and contributions to DPS. Furthermore, the committee recommended
that all Government assets in ports and past Government loans for port develop-
ment be converted into equity. Pending Government approval of the draft opening
balance sheets, PERUMPEL II management is pursuing its financial planning on the
basis of the committee's xecommendations. It is not expected that there will be
any material modifications In the dxaft balance sheets before their legalization.
3.13      Another impoxtant element of managing the Corporation's finances is a
xevaluation of poxt assets. The last asset valuation fox the ports in the PER-
UMPEL II zone was carried out in 1977. The cuxxent replacement value of most
assets is likely to be much higher than in 1977, and depreciation allowances
would have to be adjusted accordingly. During negotiations, PERUMPEL II agreed
that such asset xevaluations will be accomplished not later than December 31, 1986.
C. Operations and Maintenance
3.14      The problems and shortcomings with curxent operational and maintenance
practices in Indonesian ports, as described in Chaptex II, also apply to poxts Ln
the PERUMPEL II zone. The optimization schemes which were prepared for Tanjung
Priok and the other project ports (paxa. 3.05) provide detailed analyses of the
nature, scope and Impact of the shortcomings on port operations. At the same



- 19 -
tiae a broad framework has. been established fox eliminatlg Inefficiencies and
improving pxoductivity. The salient features of the optlimzation schemes are:
(a) reorganization of terminal operations;
(b) improvement of the organization and management of port labor;
(c) improvement of port equipment managment and maintenance;
(d) xeorganization of land-side cargo flows and storage;
(e) coordination among the different public and private sector sex-
vices In ports, and simplification of service procedures, pax-
ticularly customs actlvities; and
(f) improved participation of traders and freight forwardexs in port
operatlons planning and coordination.
3.1s      PERUMPEL II management has decided to cancel termlal operations con-
tracts with all shipping companies that do not comply with acceptable performance
standards (para. 2.07). To that effect the exlstlng stevedoring arrangemnts in
all PERUMPEL II poXts are being reviewed.  Hiimum performance standards have been
established against which the actual productLvity of terminal operators are being
measured; they will also be incorporated in all future terminal operations con-
tracts. Such futuxe arrangements for termxnal operatlons will include suitably
qualified entexprises, such as trucking or freight forwarding companies. In some
instances, like Tanjung Pxloks Unit TeX.na.l Containers (UTC), the port adminis-
trations will manage and operate terminal operations with their own staff. A
principal element of the new terminal operations arrangeaunts Is the provision
that all public port facilities axe equally available to all port users.
3.16      Because existing arrangements for the provision of port labor are in-
adequate (para. 2.07), the role of YUXA in labor maagement and the deployment of
labor in ports, are belg redefined in line with the provlsions of INPRES 4/85.
Increased cargo unitization will reduce the required quay-side availability of
manual labor, as one of the main benefits of cargo unitization results from
mechanized handling. However, reduced labox requirements In quay areas will be
compensated by substantial labor inputs xequired fox caxgo unitization. Permanent
labor gangs will be assigned to each texrlnal operatox. To date port labox was
organized in roving gangs, available throughout the ports, which proved to be one
of the main reasons for low productivity and high rates of absenteeim. The ter-
minal operators are considering incentive schemes for their assigned labor gangs,
which would be based on pay licreases for performance above tlme-fixed production
rates. The Dutch assistance in port woxker training (para. 2.30) would contribute
to Improving labor productivity.
3.17      Equipment available in the Corporation-s ports has frequently the wrong
specifications for the jobs required. This situation has come about because
DGSC had no clear guidelines fox equipment pxocurement and assignment to indi-
vidual ports io the past.  ID addition, many pieces of equipment axe in a poor
state of xepair because maintenance azrangements were commonly inadequate. The
poor condition of equipment and other port facilities are paxtially attributable



- 20 -
to inadequate maintenance budgets (para. 2.11). PERUMPEL It managment Is aware
of the consequences of past insufficlent port maintenance artangements and pays
particular attention to the early establishment of effective provisions for main-
tenance ln the ports undex Its jurisdiction. As a first step, the Corporation
is drawing up an Inventory of all equipment and maintenance facilities to deter-
mine required interventions; the project will provide techolcal assistance to es-
tablish improved arrangements for equipment management by 1988. During negotia-
tions PERUMPEL II agzeed to provide fox adequate annual port maintenance budgets.
3.18      Long ship service times In most ports are partially attributable to the
fact that cargoes with same destinations are stored In different areas of a port.
PERUMPEL II management is Investigating this problem with a vlew to concentrating
cargoes with same destinations in common locations, such that individual berths
can be earmarked for specific trades. A particular pioblem existed l Tanjung
Priok where all containers with origins or destinations In Asian ports had to be
channelled by decree through thc Cakung freight terminal, located some 12 km in-
land, and which was administered by MOF. While the rate of container handling In
the port is satisfactory by international standards, the forced routing of con-
tainers through Cakung resulted on average In 225Z Increases in container handling
time. As one of the provislons of INPRES 4185, Cakung has been closed as freight
terminal, and all cargoes arriving In Tanjung Priok can now be directly delivered
out of the port.
3.19      Based on the recommendations under the optimization schemes (para. 3.05),
PERUMPEL II is now preparlog operationsi improvement action plane for each port
under its jurisdiction. Since Tanjung Priok is the pivotal port of PERUHPEL II,
and early operations and management adjustments are critically Important for the
rest of the system, the action plan for the port has been completed; the provl-
sions and procedural arrangements under the port's operations improvement plan are
satisfactory. Details are In the project file. A summary description of the plan
provisions is given in Annex 4. PERUMPEL II expects that operatlons improvement
action plans for Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang and Pontianak will be establlshed
by July 1985. Establishment of satisfactory plans is a condition of loan disburse-
ment for each project port.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The project will be the first lending operation under the ongoing Bonk-
GOI maritime subsector policy dialogue through MSDP. As such, the project will
represent an important contribution to required systeo adjustments, and concen-
trate on one of the key subsector problems:  the urgent need to improve port pro-
ductivity and management and to arzange for necessary facility rehabilitation and
modernization in ports. With these provisions the project will be in direct sup-
port of GOI-s efforts to improve the performance of the maritime transport system,
as established by INPRES 4/85. Although the project's framework will be Public
Port Corporation II, important demonstration effects will materialize for the
other public port corporations. All arrangoemnts for effective port management
and efficient operations which will be instituted under the project will serve as
a guide and will be appropriately replicated in these other corporations during
their start-up phase.



- 21 -
B. Project Scope and Compoition
4.02      The project will arrange for urgently required facillty rehabilitation
in the ports of Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang and Pontlanak. The container
terminal in Tanjung Priok will be expanded, and basic Installations for contalner
handling will be established in the other four ptoject ports. These measures
will ensure that projected port'traffic can ba efficiently handled until the mld
1990w.
4.03      Provisions will be made to establish  ffective admialstrative and opet-
ational arrangements In Corporation management and In all ports In the PERUHPEL II
zone. The project will provide technical assistance to these efforts and neces-
oary training of all categorles of Corporation and port personnel. Such technlcal
assistance and training will primarily serve the needs of P%RUMPEL II but wlll
also be available to the other three public port corporations.
4.04      DCSC will be assisted through technical experts in efforts to provide
advisory services in cargo unitization te traders, shipping companite, and port
adminJstrations, and to improve seaborne trade coordination and freight documenta-
tion. In addition, technical assistance will be imade avallab:e to help establish
an effective system for sector performance monitoring and an&'vzlig freight market
trends, and to imploemnt the provisions of INPRES 4/85.
4.05      Technical experts will assist MOC In setting up and runling an effec-
tive mechanism for guiding state transport enterprises in corporate planoing and
management, and monitoring theiT performance. Consultants will be hired to pre-
pare detailed plans for improved utilization of the country's river network for
transport purposes, to finalize land transport development plans, to arrange for
further maritime transport improvement schemes, and to establish a natiooal trans-
port secto- development guide.
C. Detailed Project Dencription
Public Port Corporation II
4.06      Mastexplans and detalled engineering for required physical adjustments
io all five project ports were prepared by Bank financed (Loan 1337-IND) consul-
tants. An account of existing facilities In these ports, operatlons statlstica
and traffic projectlons is given in Annex 5. Details of proposed measures In all
five ports are given in Annex 7.
4.07      A consultant consortium consisting of Peter Fraenkel and Partners (UK),
PTC. and P.T. Wiratman (Indonesia), carried out the Tanjung Priok Port Optiias-
tion Study In 1983/84. The findings under the Optimization Study were that except
for the container terminal (UTC), no port expansion is required until the sid-
1990s. However, substantial changes in port operation and cargo management prac-
tices will have to be instituted. Existing container handllg facilities are
reaching their capacity limits, and additional installations have to be developed
to service projected traffic. The port-s layout and proposed project measures are
shown In Map IBRD 18070. UTC on the east side of the port-s Basin III will be
improved and expanded. The southern end of the quay will be strengthened over



- 22 -
440 a, and containex mails will be extended over the strengthened section, so
that containexs can be handled without xestxlction thxoughout the UTC axea.
Capital dredging in Basin III will be carxied out to inexease the water depth
in line with projected ship movements. Additional containex handling and stack-
ing axeas will be obtained by developing zones adjacent to UTC, including a
special axea fox xeefexs. In oxdex to avoid the congested stxeets iD the port
area and to ensure speedy passage of containexs into and out of the port, a
limited access road link will be constxucted.  At the southexn end of UTC a
truck park will be established, and a new complex constructed to house the
terminal administration. An existing txansit shed on the East Quay will be
dismantled and stored for subsequent use in the PERUMPEL II port system. Thexe
will be relocation of existing Customs and Coast Guard establishments, pxe-
sently located in the UTC area, to provide improved woxking space for the pro-
jected containex traffic. Container-handling equipment based on the existing
UTC operational system, incoxpoxating rail-mounted quay cranes, rubbex-tixed
tXanstainexs in the stacking axeas, and transitting tractors and trailers will
be procured, and improved workshop facilities will be established for the main-
tenance of container handling equipment.
4.08      A masterplan and xelated feasibility studies for the Port of Teluk
Bayur were prepared during 1983 by a consultant consortium consisting of Lavalin
International (Canada) and Geodata Berlian Centre (Indonesia). The port was
found in poor condition, most of its structures and installations are considex-
ably deteriorated. There is no existing capacity for handling unitized caxgoes,
howevex container traffic has already started. As the main port on the west
coast of Sumatra, Teluk Bayur would increasingly become a bottleneck to regional
development if no corxective measures were taken. The port-s layout and proposed
project measures are shown in Map IBRD 18068. Out of the port's foux existing
publics quays, three badly deterioxated quays will be reconstructed. Without
reconstruction these quays would have to be decommissioned duxing the next five
years. Substantial capital dxedging will be carried out to increase the watex
depth in the port basin and access channel in line with projected ship movements.
The xestricted working areas and obsolete transit sheds behind these quays will
be altered and modernized. The port will be expanded to include a multi-puxpose
terminal for container and other unitized cargo handling.  The texminal will also
accommodate spillover of break-bulk caxgoes from other areas of the port. The
new terminal complex will include a 200 m long new berth, and about 30,000 sq. a
reclaimed back-up zone for caxgo handling, working and storage areas for fextil-
izers, parking, mershoe_.l1ing, and additional open and covered storage needs of the
port's general cargo operations. A multi-purpose shed, suitable as containex
freight station (CFS), will be constructed, and road access to the port's hinter-
land will be improved. A set of basic equipment for unitized cargo, especially
container handling will be procured. To improve the maintenance of existing and
new port equipment, a workshop will be installed and provided with necessary
tools and material.
4.09      A masterplan and xelated feasibility studies for the Port of Panjang
was prepared by the same consultant group as fox Teluk Bayur. Panjang requires
no expansion to effectively meet forecast traffic in the medium term.  Howevex,
shoxtcomings in existing port facilities and installations have to be remedied.
The port-s layout and proposed project measures are shown in Map IBRD 18066.
For handling of contai.'ers and non-containerized cargo, a 45,000 sq. m land area
will be developed behind new quays. Construction of these quays is in the final



- 23 -
stage and is financed by KfW. A multi-purpose freight station, suitable as CFS,
will be constructed. Some capital dredging will be carried out to increase the
water depth in line with projected ship movements. A gap of 70 m in existing quay
fxontage will be filled, and several measures to improve the pzxco-ision of port
services will be implemented, such as demolishing delapidated sheds, paving ser-
vice roads and working areas, installing dxainage and water/electricity supply.
A set of basic equipment for unitized cargo handling will be procuxed. To im-
prove the maintenance of existing and new equipment, a workshop will be in-
stalled and provided with necessary tools and matexial.
4.10      A masterplan and related feasibility studies fox the Port of Palembang
were prepared during 1983 by a consultant cotsortium, consisting of Haskoning
(Netherlands) aDd P.T. Delta Tama Waja (Indonesia). As the main pxoblem for
Palembang, there is no handling capacity for unitized cargoes, although container
traffic has started to build up. The port's layout and proposed pxoject measures
axe showD in Map IBRD 18069.  A multi-puxpose terminal will be established on the
north bank of the Musi river. About 60,000 sq. m of land will be developed as
back-up area for cargo handling.  An existing godowD will be remodeled for trans-
it of non-containerized cargoes, and a new multi-puxpose freight station, suitable
as CFS, will be built. A set of basic equipment for unitized cargo, especially
container handling will be procured. To improve the maintenance of existing and
new port equipment, a workshop will be installed and provided with Decessary
tools and material. A small basin for sexvice boats, employed in the port, -*ill
be developed and provide fox a safe mooring, and the water, electricity and fuel-
ing needs of service vessels.
4.11      A masteTplan and related feasibility studies for the Port of Pontianak
was prepared by the same consultant group as for Palembang. The port was found
in poor condition, most of its structures and installations are considerably de-
teriorated. As West Kalimantan-s main txade post with the outside world, the port
has ineeasingly become unable to meet traffic demand efficiently. The poIt-s lay-
out and proposed project measuxes are shown in Map 18067. Out of three existing
quays, two will be rehabilitated, and a neW quay of 100 m length will be con-
structed to fill an existing gap, such that the port would have 400 m of continu-
ous quays. An existing transit shed will be complemented by two new sheds i-ith
a total covered area of about 4,500 sq. m. Of the new sheds, one will be suit-
able for container and unitized cargo handliDg. Sevexal measures to improve the
provision of port services will be implemented, such as demolishing delapidated
buildings, paving service roads and working areas, installing drainage and water/
electricity supply. Accommodations for differpnt port services will be built,
including a small service boat jetty. A set of basic equipment for unitized
cargo haDdling will be pxocured. To improve the maintenance of existing and
new equipment, a workshop will be installed, and provided with necessary tools
and material.
4.12      Consultant services will be retained for construction managemeDt in all
five project ports.  The construction  ianagement contracts will be with consortia,
formed by the design consultants and local firms. Such arrangement will ensure
technology transfer to local consultants and thereby contribute to G0I-s objective
of developing the domestic consulting industry. It is estimated that 75Z of the
required manpower input will be provided by the local consulting firms. Details
of required construction management services are given in Annex 6.



-24 -
4.13      Technical assistance will be pxovided in:
(a) corporate maDagement to help implement sound administxative, tech-
nical and fiDancial, especially cost accounting, standards and pro-
ceduxes;
(b) port opexations to help prepaxe and caxry out optimization schemes
in all ports in the Corpoxation's zone, especially the pxoject
poxts; and
(c) equipment management to help establish equipment workshops in the
pxoject ports and to organize equipment maintenance in all ports
in the CorporatioDns zone.
PERUMPEL II will be the main beneficiary of this technical assistance. Howevex,
once effective arrangements for improving port management and opexations have
been established in Public Port Coxporation II, technical assistance will be made
available to the othex public port corporations to help xeplicating such axrange-
ments.
4.14      Txaining of Corporation and port pexsonnel, aDd staff of the different
services in the ports, like texminal opexators, freight forwardexs and brokexs,
will be arranged by PERUMPEL II management, in suppoxt of the poxt operations
improvement schemes. Txaining experts will be provided to help in these efforts.
While training of PERUMPEL II pexsonnel will be a first pxiority, arrangements
will also be made to avail the training expexts and facilities to the other pub-
lic port corporations to meet their immediate needs duxing the start-up phase.
The same principle would apply to a txaining fund Which will be established and
administered by PERUMPEL II's Managing Dixector. The fund will be used to fi-
nance the costs of information visits to principal, well managed poxts outside
Imdonesia, and temporary secondment of selected staff from PERUMPEL II and the
other public port corporations to such international poxts. The concepts, cur-
xicula and implementation arrangements for these training programs have been esta-
blished undex the Integrated Sea Communications MaDpower Development and Training
Mastexplan, which is part of NSDP and was prepaxed by DHV (Netherlands) with Bank
financing (Loan 2120-IND). The provisions under the mastexplan are satisfactoxy to
the Bank; details are available in the project file. Of considerable importance
fox the success of this training progxam is a timely and efficient implemeDtation
of the Dutch sponsored training of poxt workexs (paxa. 2.30). The poxt woxker
training program will be cooxdinated with the training provisions undex the pro-
ject.  During negotiations agreement was xeached with PERUMPEL II on the scope,
organization and timetables fox port woxker training.
Directorate Genexal of Sea Communications
4.15      Technical assistance will be provided to DGSC in:
(a) maritime sectox monitoxing and data management to help establish
sound criteria and procedures, and to implement the provisions of
INPRES 4/85; effective mechanisms for monitoxing freight market
developments, and the performance of the vaxious elements of the
maritime subsectox;



- 25 -
(b) seaborne trade management, to organize better coordination among
traders and between tradexs/shippers and the shipping industry,
and to stxeamline fxeight documentation; and
(c) caxgo unitizations, to provide advisory services to traders, ship-
ping companies and freight forwarders, covering possible measures
and ariangements to facilitate unitization of seaborne caxgoes.
Ministry of Communications
4.16      Technical assistaDCe will be provided to MOC for:
(a) the Bureau of State Enterprises, to set standards and criteria fox
these enterprises and monitox their perfoxmance, and to provide
advisoxy services duxing their formative stages;
(b) the preparation of xiver traDsport development schemes, to im-
prove cargo distribution and passeDger transport in Kalimantan
and Sumatra;
(c) the completion of transport improvement plans, to establish ef-
fective land-sea txansport interfaces and least-cost modal ar-
rangements for inland movement and sea transport of cargoes and
passengexs; and
(d)  the establishment of a national tiansport sectox development
guide.
4.17      Draft terms of reference and input requirements for technical assistance
and training have been prepared by PERUMPEL II, MOC and DGSC and are satisfactory
to the Bank; details are given in Annex 6. As in the case of construction manage-
ment (para. 4.12), a substantial proportion (60%) of the technical assistance is
e-xpected to be provided by local consultants. The modalities fox expert xecruit-
ment, service arrangements and timetables have been reviewed with HOC, DGSC and
PERUMPEL II, and are satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Cost Estimate
4.18     The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances, is es-
timated at Rp. 205.2 billion, or US$186.5 million, which includes an amount of
US$14.5 million, representing taxes. As usual, equipment will be exempted from
taxes and import duties.  An allowance of 10% physical contiDgeDcies was made fox
all pxoject items, except equipmeDt. Price contingencies were calculated on the
basis of projected local cost incxeases of 8% between 1985 and 1990, and 5% in
1991, and on foreign cost increases of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8% between 1987
and 1990, and 5% in 91. The direct aDd indirect foxeign exchange costs axe esti-
mated at US$111.0 m, or 60% of the total pxoject costs. A detailed cost estimate
is given in Annex 7 and is summarized below:



- 26 -
Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local Foreign  Total Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Cost   Cost    Cost   Cost    Cost    Cost   Proportion
----(Rp. billion)j----  ----US$ million)--
1. Port IMprovement
Tanjung Priok          16.6      37.5    54.1   15.1    34.1    49.2       69
Teluk Bayur            19.5      29.6    49.1   17.7    26.9    44.6       60
Panjang                  7.2      8.7    15.9    6.6      7.9    14.5      54
Palembang               10.6      7.6    18.2    9.6      6.9    16.5      42
Pontianak               6.5       7.9    14.4    5.9      7.2    13.1      55
Subtotal          60.4     91.3   151.7   54.9    83.0   137.9        60
2. Technical Assistance
PERUMPEL II             0.8       0.9     1.7    0.7      0.8     1.5      53
DG of Sea Communica-
tions                 0.8       0.9     1.7    0.7     0.8      1.5      53
Ministry of Communi-
catioDs               1.4       1.8     3.2    1.3      1.7     3.0      57
Subtotal           3.0       3.6     6.6    2.7     3.3      6.0      55
3. Training                0.8       1.2     2.0    0.7      1.1     1.8      61
BASE COST ESTIMATE        64.2      96.1   160.3   58.3    87.4   145.7       60
4. Contingencies
Physical                5.2       6.7    11.9    4.7      6.1    10.8
Price/i                13.8      19.2    33.0   12.5    17.5    30.0
SUbtotal          19.0     25.9    44.9   17.2    23.6    40.8
TOTAL EXPECTED PROJECT
COSTS                   83.2    122.0   205.2   75.5   111.0   186.5        60
A1 Price Contingencies are 19% of the sum of the Base Cost Estimate and Physical
Contingencies.
4.19      The base cost estimate reflects April 1985 Unit prices which were de-
rived from extensive analyses of recently awarded civil engineering contracts for
port works, and supplier quotations for port equipment. The assumed man-month
costs of technical assistance are In lile with current technical assistance con-
tract experieoce in Indonesia, and include salaries, fees, international and do-
mestic travel, subsistence and other applicable charges. A summary of technical
assistance provisions is tabulated below:



- 27 -
Agency      Foreign Experts   Local Experts   Total
-------------8 m-motha-
PERUMPEL II        80                160         240
DGSC               95                130         225
NOC               190                250         440
Subtotal       365'               540         905
Training           75                135         210
Total          440                675       1,115
E.  Project Financing
4.20      The Bank loan of US$111.0 million will finance the full foreign exchange
costs, i.e. 60% of the total pxoject costs, or 65Z of the total costs, excluding
taxes and duties.  The remaining 40Z of the total costs, i.e. the project's local
costs will be financed by GOI. GOI will finance the local costs of the port im-
provement schemes as equity contribution during the Corporation~s start-up phase.
An ovexview of the pxoject financing plan is given below:
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Total      GOI       IBRD
Costs
_---- nUS$ million ------
Ports
Tanjung Priok                  59.8      19.9       39.9
Teluk Bayux                    58.8      28.3       30.5
Panjang                        19.2       8.7        10.5
Palembang                      20.6      10.9         9.7
Pontianak                      17.3       7.7         9.6
Technical Assistance
PERUMPEL II                     2.1         -        2.1
DGSC                            2.0         -        2.0
MOC                             4.2         -         4.2
Training                        2.5         -        2.5
Total                   186.5       75.5      111.0
GOI will be the borrower and pass on under a subsidiary loan agreement the loan
proportion allocated for port improvements (US$100.2 million) to PERUMPEL II at
the Bank's variable interest rate. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement is
a condition of loan effectiveness. GOI will cover all foxeign exchange risks.



- 28 -
F. Implementation
4.21      Project implementation will be pximaxily the responsibility of PERUM-
PEL II. Under the guidance of the Coxpoxation's Managing Director, the Director-
ates of Technical Affaixs, Operations, Finance and General Administration will
manage the implemeDtation of different pxoject provisions. The Dixectoxate of
Technical Affaixs will oversee all civil woxks and equipment procurement; in do-
ing so it will be assisted by construction management consultants in each project
port (para. 4.12). The Directoxate of Genexal Administration will coordinate all
efforts to establish effective corporate management arrangements and to train var-
ious categoxies of personnel with the assistance of technical experts; this direc-
toxate will also administer the special fund fox ovexseas training (para. 4.14).
The Dixectorate of Finance will carxy out necessaxy studies and investigations
and arrange fox measures to improve financial management.  The Dixectorate of Op-
exations will axxange for necessary measuxes to impxove port pxoductivity. Qual-
ified foreign and local experts will assist in all these efforts. In the office
of the Corporations Managing Dixectox, a pxoject coordination unit has been esta-
blished, including one appropxiately qualified PERUMPEL II administratox and two
support staff. The unit will assist the Director in supexvising and guiding the
tasks caxxied out by the line directorates.
4.22      DGSC related project measures will be monitored and guided by the
MSDP coordinatox in the office of the Directoxate Genexal.  All studies iD MOC
will be undex the dixect supervision of the Ministry-s Secretary Genexal and
managed by the head of MOC-s Planning Bureau. These axrangements are satis-
factory.
4.23      The project implementation pexiod is expected to be about six years.
The impxovement schemes fox Tanjung Priok and Palembang will be essentially
completed by mid 1988, for Panjang and Pontianak in late 1989, and for Teluk
Bayur in late 1990. The estimated implementation schedule is given in Chart 4.
G. Pxocurement
4.24      Procurement of all civil works and equipment will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Required civil woxks have been grouped according to their nature and extent,
such that roughly equal contracting packages could be established. Except fox
Tanjung Priok with three procuxement packages, equipment in all other poxts
will be pxocured under one contract.  Civil works contxactoxs will be pre-
qualified by July 31, 1985. All bidding documents will be subject to Bank
review and approval befoxe tendexing; the same priDciple will apply to pxo-
posed contract awards. It is expected that fox most civil works contracts
joint ventures of local and foreign contractors will be formed. Given the
highly specialized and often sophisticated nature of the required equipment,
it is expected that the majority of such equipment will be supplied by for-
eign manufacturers.  Local manufacturers will be given a preference of 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of imports or the actual customs duties, whichever is
lowex. Construction management consultants and technical assistance/training
expexts will be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines, and on texms and



- 29 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. An overview of procurement arrangements
under the project is given below.
Procurement Method
ICB          Other      Total Costs
---- -------US$ millio------------
Civil Works                            127.0            -           127.0
(63.5)                       (63.5)
CoDsultant Services for                   -            6.0            6.0
Construction Management                             (6.0)          (6-0)
Equipment                               34.7            -            34.7
(30.7)                       (30.7)
Technical Asslstance/Training              -          10.8           10.8
(10.8)         (10.8)
Total                             161.7          16.8          178.5
(94.2)       (16.8)         (111.0)
Note: Figures include physical and price cortingencies, and those in brackets
are the respective amounts which will be financed with loan proceeds.
H. Disbursements
4.25      The loan will be disbursed on following basis:
(a)  Civil works:  50X of total expenditures;
(b)  Construction Management Consultants:  100% of total expenditures;
(c)  Equipment:  100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f.) for directly
impoxted items; or 100X of local expenditures (ex factory), ex-
cluding identifiable duties and taxes, for locally manufactured
items; and 65% of expenditures of locally procured items; and
(d)  Technical Assistance and Training:  100% of total expenditures.
Disbursements for (b) and (d) will be O0 the basis of statements of expenditures
which will be submitted to the Bank in three months intervals. Supporting docu-
mPntation will be retained by PERUMPEL II, MOC avd DGSC fox inspection by Baok
staff during supexvision. The estimated schedule of loan disbursements is given
in Table 5. The schedule is in general confoxmity with the Bank-s country and
sector specific disbursement profiles. The expected loan closing date is June 30,
1992.



- 30 -
I. Project Monitoxing
4.26      As the first concerted action package under MSDP, aimed at improving
port management and productivity, the diffexent measures to be taken under the
project need careful monitoring. The appropriateoess of actions taken, and the
corresponding tIplementation arrangements will have to be tested, and timely ad-
justments made, as and when requixed. Ultimately, when optimal procedures and
their operational impact have been detexmined, they should be replicable under
similar efforts in other ports in Indonesia. DGSC will arrange fox this monitor-
ing, assisted by technical expexts to be provided under the project.
4.27      To establish a benchmark against which changes in port efficiency can
be measured, current production rates of key activities io the project ports have
been established. Productivity targets for these activities, to be attained by
1990, have been set, from which semi-annually required productivity improvements
will be derived undex the port operations improvement plans (para. 3.19). An
overview of port efficiency indicators, which were jointly established by the
appraisal team, DGSC and PERUMPEL II is given in Annex 8. The port productivity
targets were agreed duxing negotations.
4.28      PERUMPEL II and MOC will prepare quartexly progress xeports which will
be consolidated by DGSC and cover, inter alia, the status of implementing differ-
enc project components, institutional developments and port performance indicators.
To facilitate the final evaluation of the project, PERUMPEL II with the assistance
of DGSC will, within three months of project completion, prepare a detailed pro-
ject completion report, which will reflect on details of project implementation,
costs, benefits, and other relevant information in a format acceptable to the Bank.
The report will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan
closing date.  The details, format, and proceduxes fox the different froms of pro-
ject monitoring were agxeed duriDg negotiations.
4.29      PERUMPEL II, DGSC and MOC will maintain separate financial records and
accounts for the project components implemented under their respective auspices.
These records and accounts will be sufficient ID detail to identify the goods
and sexvices financed with loan proceeds, and be maintained in line with sound
accounting practices. The accounts will be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to the Bank. The audit xeports will be submitted to the Bank within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year.
K. Status of Pxoject Preparation
4.30      Satisfactory detailed engineexing designs and tender documents have
been pxepared for the pxoposed project measures in all ports. The needs assess-
ment for technical assistance and correspondingly xequired arrangements were
established by PERUMPEL II, DGSC and MOC (para. 4.17) and are satisfactory; de-
tails are available in the project file.
4.31      Implementation of project measures requixes clearance of land within
port perimeters, which is presently occupied by private companies, government
services, or squatters.  This land is owned by the respective port administra-



- 31 -
tions, and compensation will only have to be provided to covex relocation costs.
In Tanjung Pxiok and Palembang, there will also be a need to acquire land outside
the present port perimetexs to pexmit development of requixed additional working
spaces. Necessary land clearance or acquisition procedures have been initiated
in late 1984; the arrangements and timetables for this process, which will be
completed by mid-1987, are satisfactoxy to the. Bank. Details are in the Project
file.
L. Environmental Aspects
4.32      The project is not expected to cause any adverse environmental ef-
fects. All construction measures undex the project will be in already existing
port basins, thus there will be no project generated interference with coastal or
river currents. Land xeclamation in Teluk Bayur will be with marine sands which
will be dredged fxom the sea bed; analyses have demonstrated that there will be
no environmental damage xesulting from such action. Except for the access xoad
improvements iD Tanjung Priok and Palembang, all other project measures will be
carried out within existing port perimeters. Possible disburbances resulting
from the road works will be temporary and be kept at acceptable minimum through
appropriate taffic management axxangements.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Genexal
5.01      The most important concern undex the pxoject is to set a framework and
to implement associated arrangements for improving productivity in Indonesia-s
ports, and to facilitate seaborDe cargo unitization. The project will demonstrate
how port efficiency improvements, and thus sea transport cost reductions can be
achieved through the applicatioD of internationally proven port management and
operations procedures and arrangements. The experience gained during project
implementation will guide future similar efforts throughout the country's port
system.
5.02      Low port productivity has caused several detrimental effects in the
Indonesian economy. Most importantly, this coDditioD has escalated sea trans-
port costs, which is reflected in the world market prices of Indonesian goods,
and in the domestic market pxices of imported and local commodities. A major
reason for the poor performance of the mexchant fleet has to be seen as re-
sulting from these circumstances. Because ships axe tied up in ports for long
times, fleet utilization is far below common standards elsewhere. Repxesenta-
tive results of sample investigations show that on average ships spent 16% of
their total time in poxts waiting to be berthed, and 25Z idle time after berth-
ing. Effective service time was excessive due to low production rates in tex-
minal operations. Thus, capital invested in ships yields low returns, which
has consequential negative impacts on private initiatives in the shipping in-
dustry. Low productivity has also become a significant and increasing impedi-
ment to xegional development in the port hintexlands, where growth of the local
economies is cxitically dependent on efficient trade with other regions in Indo-
nesia, and the outside world.



- 32 -
5.03      Maxitime transport is a key link in Indonesia's foxeign and domestic
trad.. Between the mid-1970s and the early 1980s, domestic seaborne trade in-
cxeased at an avexage annual zate of 8X to xeach 30 million tons in 1983. DuX-
iDg the same period the annual increase of lmpoxted cargo flows was 11; in
1983, 26.4 million tons of vaxious import commodities were channelled thxough
Indonesian ports. The volume of annual exports has xemained relatively stable
at about 100 million tons during the last six years. The nature and composition
of export, import and domestic cargoes continue to undexgo significant changes.
Crude oil and natural gas have been the majox commodities for many years, but
their share iD the volume of domestic seaborne txaffic decreased fxom 62Z in
1977 to 49Z iD 1983, and in expott txade from 77Z to 67% during the same period.
In early 1982, GOI pxomulgated its "export dxive" policy, aimed at divexsifying
the couDtry's expoxt base to offset losses in the oil ttade, and to reduce the
economy's vulnexability to fluctuations in the world market. As a consequence,
other expoxt cargoes are gradually gaining a moxe important share in seaborne
foreign trade. The value of non-oil commodity expoxts during the fixst ten
months of 1984 had increased about 20X over comparable figures attained during
the corresponding pexiod iD 1983. Details of seaboxne txade development are
given in Table 6.
5.04      Cost saving cargo handling techlologies and management arrangements
which axe increasingly employed by Indonesia's actual and potential txade part-
nexs, and in the International shipping iodustry, dictate changes in the na-
tional ports. Cargo unitization, especially containerization, has become a
COmMODplace in global txade. Through unitization cargo can be handled faster,
and the incidence of damage and pilfexage is greatly reduced, all of which re-
sults in substantial transpoxt cost savings. To maintain the competitiveness
of Indonesian commodities in international markets and to support the 'export
drive" policy, GOI has chosen to pursue a progxam aimed at adjusting the coun-
try's ports and tbeir management fox unitized cargo handling. Except fox Tan-
Jung Priok, there is pxeseDtly no poxt in Indonesia whexe container txaffic can
be efficiently accommodated. However, container traffic has already staxted
io several ports. Many foreign impoxters of Indonesian rubber, coffee, tea
and tobacco xequire that such commodities be shipped iD containers. In the
absence of container handling capacity, ocean-going vessels arrive in local
ports, unload empty containers with their own geax, wait for the containexs
to be stuffed, and load them again. Usually a ship is thereby tied up in a
port fox thxee to foux days; on avexage less than 15 containers axe handled
during that period. The daily costs of such ships range between US$15,000
and US$50,000, depending on ship size. The waiting costs thus incurred axe
passed on to the importexs.
5.05      As in the case of intetuational txade, the domestic trade would also
gxeatly benefit from seaborne cargo unitization. Less than 10X of intex-island
cargo traffic is presently unitized, and almost no containexs are employed. It
is estimated that between 35% and 402 of all domestic dry caxgoes could be con-
tainerized. However, not only are the domestic ports ill-equipped to handle
containexs, the local shipping industry and fxeight forwarders are not oxgan-
ized to effectively catex fox such demand.



- 33 -
B. The Project Poxts
5.06      Under ISTS (para. 2.14), a country-wide oxigin-destination survey
of current seaborne cargo flows was carsied out. Based on extensive analyses
of development pxogzams in the industry, agriculture, and other sectors of
the national economy in the different tegions of the country, seaborne cargo
flows through individual ports were projected for the years 1990 and 2000.
The results of these analyses demonstrated that the ports in the PERUMPEL II
zone will continue to command a substantial share in handling Indonesia's sea-
borne cargoes, i.e. about 382 of all domestic cargoes, 40% of export dry cax-
goes, and about 45X of all Imports. Detailed traffic statistics for the pro-
ject poxts are given in Annex 4 and are summarized below:
Total Cargo Txaffic           Containex Traffic
(mdillion tons)               (million tons)
1983     1990      2000     1983      1990     2000
Tanjung Priok    9.300    17.489   25.001   1.298    4.103    5.979
Teluk Bayur      0.547      0.878    1.515   0.004    0.251    0.372
Panjang          0.612      1.138    1.753   0.027    0.192    0.428
Palembang         ('.400    0.702    1.220   0.008    0.190    0.306
Pontianak         0.315     0.415    0.462   0.000    0.030    0.150
Note:    The figures represent cargo handled in the public port facilities, and
do not include industry traffic which is channelled through special
installations, adjacent to the ports.
5.07      According to the findings of the Port Optimization Study (para. 4.07),
Tanjung Priok's overall capacity is only 65% utilized. The main reason being
inefficient axxangements fox port operations, which will be improved under the
project. Thus foxecast txaffic could in general be handled until the mid 1990s
without additional investments, however, the practical capacity of existing UTC
installations is expected to be reached by 1987. Even under assumed conditions
of Improved pxoductlvity, with the pxojected 1990 container flows, berth occu-
pancy xatios in UTC axe estimated to reach 98.5% by that time, if working areas
and handling facilities for containexs would not be expaoded.  Such high ratlos
would imply infinite ship waiting times, which would cause laxge scale trade
disruptions.
5.08      Existing port installations in the other project ports axe totally in-
adequate to meet projected traffic. Even substantial improvements in poxt opera-
tions tfficiency would not suffice because deteriorated facilities will have to
be decommissioned during the next five years, if not rehabilitated promptly.
Also, arrangements have to be made for handling projected container traffic,
wbich would otherwise have to be very inefficiently accommodated (para. 5.04).
Most importantly, however, it is highly unlikely that trade through these ports
and cost-saviDg cargo unitization would develop to the projected levels if the
port facilities were not zehabilitated and expanded to the required extent.



- 34 -
C. Project Benefits
5.09      Measurable project benefits, which have been taken into account in the
project analysis, will laxgely result from reductions in ship waiting and sex-
vice times. Such reductions will materialize as a consequence of stxeamlined
port operatiun axrangements and procedures, and improved port facilities, as re-
flected by the improving port efficiency indicators (Annex 8). A substantial
proportion of the expected ship turnaround time reductions will be achieved
through gradually increasing caxgo unitization, which will be promoted undex
the project. Also, containerization of shipments will lead to a diminishing
incidence of caxgo loss and damage. All these reductions will translate into
cost savings for the shipping lines, the freight forwarders, and insurance com-
panies. Such cost savings will be reflected in the market prices of Indonesian
and Import commodities.
5.10      Indixect project benefits, which were not calculated, include:
(a) more efficient utilization of domestic ships, which will curtail
to some extent DGSC projected fleet development requirements;
(b) reduced port expansion needs because unitized caxgo-handling al-
lows a higher intensity of facility utilization than current ar-
rangements; and
sc) facilitating impacts oD xegional development through reduced com-
modity costs and thus accelerated trade growth.
Finally, the project will be beneficial through establishing a replicable frame-
work for Improving port productivity throughout IDdonesia.
D. Evaluation Methodology and Rates of Return
5.11      Before determining poxt rehabilitation and expansion needs, substantial
improvements in port operations efficiency were considered, which will matexial-
ize under the port operations impxovement plans to be carxied out under the pro-
ject (para. 3.19). It is expected that through resulting streamlined port man-
agemeot and operatlons arrangements and pxocedures, labor productivity will
gradually increase from the present average low of 7.2 t/gang-hour to 13.5 tt
gang-hour, and that ships can be loaded and unloaded at an average rate of 750 tI
day. The effects of these improvements axe reflected in changing port efficiency
indicators (Annex 8).
5.12      Different pxoductivity rates in container handling were considered only
for Tanjung Priok, given the scale of current and forecast container traffic In
that port. The rate of container traffic growth in all other project ports is to
some extent uncertain as it largely depends on market reactions to improved port
facilities and operations. Provisions will be made under the project to stimu-
late market response, and to assist the traders, freight forwarders, and shipping
companies in arranging for cargo unitization (para. 4.15). It has been conserva-
tively assumed for all these ports that 60X of projected contalnerizable cargoes
will be containerized by 1990, 80X by 1995, and lOOX by 2000. All new facilities
in these ports have therefore been designed with flexibility such that unitized



- 35 -
cargoes, as WeIl *s Spillover other cargoes can be effectively handled. Shadow
pricing has been applied fox equlpment (conversion factox: 0.85) *and fox civil
works (convexsiov factor: 0.80).
5.13      The ovexall economic zate of return on the project iovestmts  Is ex-
pected to be 32Z. The effect of possible changes in key benefit parameters on the
rate of return was teuted, together with the Influence of possible cost increases
above the appraisal estioate. For Tanjung Prlok a detailed probability analysis
was carried out, considerlng the combined effects of different handling productiv-
ities, container dwell times, the rate of lter-island cargo cotainterization, the
extent of import/export cargo transshipments to other ports, and variation. in con-
struction costs. The mean Incremental rate of return of the proposed project In-
vestments in Tanjung Priok is expected to be 552; there is only a 102 chance that
the rate of return would be less than 15, but thzre is a 35 probability that the
rate could exceed 1002. A mote lllted sensitivity analysis was carried out fox
the other project ports and revealed following results:
Teluk Bayur     Paj!ang      Palembang      Pontianak
Beast Estlmate                19.32          19.42         21.6X          17.3X
TraffIc Forecast  -202           16.4X         16.                          i3]X  173
Containerization  -202          15.2Z          15.52         18.8X          16.2Z
Port Productivity -202          17.3X          17.5X         20.5Z          16.52
Coostructlon Cost +202          14.92          16.22         20.02          14.2Z
The fijsures for Teluk Bayur reflect the incremental rate of return on the Invest-
ments for establishing the proposed multi-purpose terminal. Requlred investmests
for rehabilitatlcg the existing three deteriorated quays are expected to yield a
rate of return In excess of 502. The combined rate of returt on all investmats
In Teluk Bayur Is expected to be 242. Details of the economic ai lySis are avail-
able in the project file.
E. Project Risks
5.14      There are four potential risks associated with the project:
(a) slower than anticlpated seaborne trafflc lcresses;
(b)  limited progress in port productivlty improveents;
(c) delays In land clearance or acqsisltion, and
(d) restraiDed declsion-making in PERUNPEL II.
5.15      Slower than antlcipated traffic lncreases and less than expected opera-
tions improvements In the project ports will be consequential for the estimated
rates of return. However, as the project measures will address critlcally re-
quired and overdue adjustmeDts in these ports, even considerable changes in the
key cost and benefit parameters would have relatively marginal impacts on the
estimated rates of return. The combined effect of 202 increases In project costs
and 2O2 decreases in project benefits would still leave the project"s overall rate
of return above 202.



- 36 -
5.16      Although PERUMPEL II has already initiated land cleaxance and acquisi-
tion, and a tinetable for completing this process has been established (para.
4.31), there is a possibility that delays may occur. Such delays are conceivable
in the ports of Tanjung Priok and Palembang, where squatters have to be removed
from port owned land. However, given the phasing of construction work in these
ports, land clearance delays would become critical only in the third year of pxo-
ject implementation. Alternative, yet slightly less effective, but technically
acceptable solutions for xequired adjustments in both ports have been established,
in case squattex relocation could not be timely organized.
5.17      Finally, there might be some undue interference by Government institu-
tions in PERUMPEL II management which would impede the Corporation's efficiency
in dealing with its assigned functions, given different vested interests and past
practices. However, it is of utmost importance for the success of the project's
institution-building objectives that the new public port corporations have all
the managerial latitude conceded by the enacting legislation (para. 3.02). The
recently established port administrators (para. 2.23) are mandated to assist the
coxporations in meeting their operations and management responsibilities effec-
tively. During project supervision the Bank will pay particular attention that
PERUMPEL II can exercise its rights and privileges without restrictions, in pur-
suit of the project objectives.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. General
6.01      A major objective of the 1983 port management reorganization was to
establish financially viable poxt corporations which would provide efficient
services with only minimal dependence on Government budget resources. The re-
organization was followed by the promulgation of INPRES 4/85, with a wide scope
of promoting the smooth flow of goods, and reducing costs throughout the maxi-
time transport system. The years until 1990 ought to be seen as a transition
period between old and the new organizational arrangements and policies for port
operations and management. INPRES 4/85 provides for changes in some port charges
and tariffs, which will have the initial effect of reducing port opexating reve-
nues by about 20% in 1985 and 1986. At the same time, however, othex reforms
embodied in INPRES 4/85, and the project will effect reductions in port operating
costs. Because of the new institutioval and regulatory environment in the sub-
sector, the relative mpact of each policy reform, and their combined effect on
port and the Corpoxation-s financial pexfoxmaDce is presently difficult to esti-
mate. Given such uncextainties, the financial analysis focuses on the expected
operational performance of Public Port Corporation II, and provides only an in-
dicative and qualitative analysis of the new policy environment.
B. Financial Performance of the Branch Ports
6.02      Past Financial Performance:  The branch ports have performed quite
differently over the last few years. Tanjung Priok is by far the largest
earDer among Iadonesia-s ports, accouDtiDg for about 30% to 402 of annual
gross revenues, and generally between 50% and 75Z of the net income generated



- 37 -
in all domestic ports. Within PERUMPEL II, Tanjung Pxiok accounted for 77% of
reveDues and almost 90X of net income in 1983. Tanjung Priok-s financial per-
formance is satisfactory. Although general cargo volume declined during the
late 1970s due to the worldwide recession, Tanjung Pxiok maintained opexating
surpluses in all years but 1979, which saw a low point in traffic. From 1980
onwards, the trend reversed and, aided by tariff increases, growing opexating
surpluses were achieved. Net income was positive during all yeaxs, as a large
gain from currency adjustments more than offset the operating loss in 1979.
This gain materialized when US dollar balances (port charges paid by foreign
flag ships) were convexted at new (higher) exchange rates. The table below
summarizes Tanjung Pxiok-s financial performance during the past few years.
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
(---Rp.                                   - -illion)-------
Operating revenues         17.9   15.1   13.2   20.3   27.7   36.3   44.7
Woxking expenses           10.0   11.7   11.8   13.8   21.2   24.6   25.0
Cash operating iucome       7.9    3.4    1.4    6.5    6.5   11.7   19.7
Operating income            5.4    1.1   (1.4)   3.4    3.3    8.1   11.9
Net income (before tax)    5.7    0.9    0.6    2.6    2.9    8.6   13.9
Working ratio (X)            56      77     89      68     77     67      56
Operating ratio (Z)          70      93    111     83      88     78      73
6.03      Teluk Bayur, Pavjang, Palembang and Pontianak together contributed
less than 17% to PERUMPEL II-s combined revenues in 1983, and less than 6% to
its net licome. The financial performance of these ports has been weak ovex
the past years, and working expenses often exceeded revenues. The remaining
ports under PERUMPEL II's jurisdiction, not included in the project, contxi-
bute 6% to 7% to the Corporations revenues, and iD 1983 about 7% to net In-
come.
6.04      Projected Future Financial Performance:  The projected financial per-
formance is based on detailed analyses of expected traffic volume aDd composi-
tion till the early 1990s, and of the associated operating costs to handle such
traffic, allowing for productivity improvements resulting from the provision of
INPRES 4/85 and the project, and the 1983 taxiff structure, modified by the re-
cent 1985 adjustments. The effect of expected inflation is offset through cor-
responding tariff adjustments from 1987 onwards. Projections of Tanjung Prioks8
future operating performance indicate that the working ratio will deteriorate to
84Z by 1986, as a result of INPRES 4/85 induced tariff reductions and unmatched
cost increases in 1985. However, the ratio would gradually improve thereaftex
to abort: 60% in real terms by 1992, because port traffic is expected to grow
faster than associated costs, and the gradually increasing impact of cost re-
ducing effects of the operational improvements under the project. Interest
charges related to the project would never be more than 6.5Z of gross revenues
and total debt service would peak at about 7% of gross reveDues in 1991. This
good fiDancial performance would allow Tanjung Priok to contribute iD covering
the operational and development costs of the financially weaker PERUKPEL II
branch ports.



- 38 -
6.05      Pxojections fox Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang, and Pontianak also
indicate trends of improving financial performance, for the same reasons as in
Tanjung Priok. However, given their presently weak financial positions, these
ports are expected to incuT net losses of varying magnitude, which would gradu-
ally decline after 1990.  The Bank loan will cover between 48% and 68% of the
project cost in the individual ports. Thle table below indicates the annual
funding requirements to covex the remaining port impxovement costs as well as
other cash needs which are not covered by internally generated funds.
Cumulative
Additional
Additional Annual Cash Needs (% of gross operating revenues) Cash Needs
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992          1985-1192
(Rp. billion)
Teluk Bayux  14    489   472   285   330   125   126   101             55
Panjang       0    137   147   104    98    57    57    42             15
Palembaug     0    220   119    87    56    23    23    19             24
Pontianak    62    440   516   261    85    20    17       9           14
It is because of the sizeable additional annual cash needs that GOI has decided
to fund the investment costs in each port which axe not covered by the loan, as
equity contribution. The remaining cash needs will be covered by the Corpoxa-
tioDn.
C. Financial Performance of Public Port Corporation II
6.06      The future financial position of PERUMPEL II reflects the consolidated
projected financial performance in the branch ports, and in Corporation head-
quarters.  The overall fiDancial performance of PERUMEEL II will largely depend
oD the performance of Tanjung Priok. The projected financial performance xeveals
that Tanjung Priok would achieve satisfactory results, provided that inflationary
cost increases are matched periodically by offsetting tariff adjustments (para.
6.04). Corporation headquarters would contribute to administrative expenses
through revenues generated by interest income from bank balances and short term
investments. The surpluses generated by Tanjung Priok would be somewhat largex
than the expected deficits in all other branch ports of PERUMPEL II.
6.07.     Financial Management Strategy. While the immediate emphasis of INPRES
4/85 is oD reduction of port costs, GOI remains committed to the objectives of
the 1983 Presidential Decrees and Govexrment xegulations which established the
public port corpoxations as financially viable entities. However, as the effects
of expected cost reducing port productivity improvements under the project will
only gradually materialize, the recent decisions oD reduced poxt charges will
have inevitable short-term effects on the financial perfoxmance of PERUMPEL II.
While GOI has decided to compensate the Corporation for any shortfalls due to
reduced harboux dues, if needed, there xemains nevextheless the need to gradu-
ally move PERUMPEL II and its bxanch ports towaxds financial self-sufficiency,
which is attainable, as demonstxated above. To ensure correspoDdingly xequired
performance trends, financial targets were therefore agxeed during negotiations:
woxking ratios should be attained and thexeafter not exceeded, as follows: PER-
UMPEL II 80% and Tanjung Priok 70% by 1987, Teluk Bayur and Pontianak 75%, and



- 39 -
Panjang and Palembang 80Z, all by 1990. In addition, agreement was xeached that
PERUMPEL II should generate sufficient income to maintain a debt service ratio
of 1.5.
6.08      Operating Pexformance.  The tables in Annex 9 show the projected fi-
naDcial performance of PERUMPEL II with a working ratio of 80% maintained from
1987 onwaxds. With these provisions, PERUMPEL II would generate cash income for
all years, sufficient to pay all its obligations. Cash income would also suffice
to pay tax associated with the asset xevaluation to be done in 1986 (para. 3.13),
which is expected to lead to a doubling of the asset base value, and consequently
the annual depreciation charges.  Net income, before corporate tax, would be nega-
tive from 1986 to the early 1990s, due to the revised depreciation provisions.
The rate of return on assets in use, before interest expense, was more than 5Z
iD 1984. It is expected to drop significantly in 1985 and 1986 due to tariff xe-
ductions, to stay low till the late 1980s, but to increase gradually thereafter.
6.09      Cash Flow and Balance Sheet.  The projected cash flow (Annex 9) indi-
cates that about 9% of available gross funds would be used for payments to the
Government and debt service. Project investments, amounting to 60X of total
fuwds used, will be financed through the loan (57%) and Govexrment equity con-
tributions (43%). Non-project investments will be financed through internally
generated funds. The projected detailed flow of funds shows a build-up of avail-
able funds from the early 1990s onwards, suggesting that PERUNPEL II could fully
finance future investments after project completion, aod Do more Government sub-
sidies would be xequired for investments or operations.  The projections for the
years 1984 to 1992 assume satisfactory standards of financial management. PERUM-
PEL II is expected to be reasonably liquid. The debt/equity ratio would increase
from pxesently zexo to about 25/75 by 1989 and decline rapidly thereaftex. The
debt service coverage ratio, after all xemittances to the Government and payment
of other financial obligations, would be mostly above 1.5, given the improving
operating perfoxmance and the relatively small size of interest as a percentage
of gross revenues.
6.10      The Corporation-s future financial performance, and that of the pro-
ject ports need careful monitoring, so that timely remedial measuxes could be
taken if observed pexformance trends would not be conducive to attaining the
agreed working ratios, and to improve the level of cost recovery in the project
ports.  During negotiations, the following monitoring pxocedure was agreed:
(a)  by a mutually agreeable date early in each calendar year, GOI,
PERUMPEL II and the Bank will review the operational and finan-
cial performance of the Corporation during the pxeceding 12
months. Progress will be measuxed against the agreed performance
targets;
(b) xequired opexational and financial measures, including adjustments
to port chaxges, will be jointly detexmined at such time so that
the agreed ratios can be achieved and maintained; and
(c) GOI will take, ox cause to be taken, all requixed measures within
a reasonable time. Recognizing that cixcumstances could
arise which would lead GOI to limit the extent of required tariff
increases in pursuit of its objectives under INPRES 4/85, the Gov-



- 40 -
ernment would compensate PERUMPEL for the xesultant revenue short-
falls in a timely manner.
D. Improvements to Accounting System and Tariffs
6.11   An important contxibution to the project-s objective of strengthening
port management is the establisbment of responsibility accounting by expanding
the presently used system of budget centers to include cost and profit centers,
where possible. Identifying the operating xesults of a unit should not oDly
ensure greater managerial discipline, but also improve motivation of mazagexs.
Responsibility accounting Deeds formal and consistent reporting procedures along
the lines of the organizational structuxe, and to be faix and effective, requires
an accounting/management information system that allows to calculate and assign
costs and revenues to individual managexs.
6.12      In the context of the new accounting system (paxa. 3.11), provisions
will be made to strengthen cost control, budgetting and taxiff calculations. The
system will also provide Improved information fox senior management to effectively
conduct the operational and financial affairs of the Corporation. The system will
further support xesponsibility accounting, as the genexal ledger accounts will be
integrated with the organization structure and the activity statistics relating to
each profit or cost center. Upon completing the accounting/management infoxmation
system, the strucsture of tariffs and port user charges, such as land rents, will
be xevised. New tariff levels will be calculated, taking into account the improve-
matets and modifications in port operations, changing trends iD port use, and the
demand for port services. The revised charges will support better utilization of
existing facilities and planned investments. The project pxovides technical as-
sistance in all these efforts (para. 4.13).
E. Auditing
6.13      In the past it has often taken years to complete the audits for
Tanjung Priok. The audited financial statement did not include indications
of sources and uses of funds, thereby making it almost impossible to gain a
full understanding of all port-activities during the reportig period. The
Pxesidential Decree which establishes PERUMPEL II (para. 3.01) specifies the
auditing procedures in genexal terms, which are satisfactoxy. The Corpora-
tioDns financial statements will be sent not latex than six months, following
the end of a fiscal year to MOC, MOF and the Financial, Auditing and Develop-
ment Board (BPKP), which reports directly to the Secretary of State. Upon
receipt, MOF will examine and legalize the audit reports. The Corpoxation~s
financial statements will be sent to the Bank at the time of their distxibu-
tion to GOI agencies, and the audit reports will be sent within nine months
aftex the end of each fiscal yeax. The fivancial statements vill include cash
flow statements.



- 41 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following pro-
visioDs under the Loan and Project Agxeements, respectively:
(a) implementation arrangements and timetables fox the shipping and
port services improvement schemes (para. 2.16);
(b) PERTMPEL II's new accounting system to be introduced by July 1,
1986 (paxa. 3.11);
(c) asset revaluation in PERUMPEL II ports to be completed by
D-cember 31, 1986 (para. 3.13);
(d) adequate annual maintenance budgets for PERUHPEL II ports
(para. 3.17);
(e) the arrangements for port worker training (para. 4.14);
Cf) port efficiency indicators and arrangements for project mon-
itoring (paras. 4.27 and 4.28); and
(g) financial managemeDt stxategy and performance targets for
PERUMPEL II and the individual project ports, and provisions
for financial monitoring (paras. 6.07 and 6.10).
7.02      Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PERDMPEL (para.
4.20) is a condition of loan effectiveness. Completion of satisfactory operations
Improvement action plans is a condition of loan disbuxsements for the individual
project ports (para. 3.19).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$111.0 million, equivalent
to the Government of Indonesia, at the standard variable interest rate, and for 20
years, including a grace period of five years.
May 1985



ANNEX 1
Page 1
- 42 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE MARITIME SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Overview
ACTION
I.  Maritime Sector Development Strategy
II. Shipping Services Improvement
III. Cxash Pxogram to Eliminate Bottlenecks in Gateway Poxts
IV.  Port Planning and EDgineexiDg
V. Ship Repair and Maintenance Improvement
VI. Navigational Aid and Maritime Telecom Systems Improvement
VII. Dredging Impxovement
VIII. Matitime Safety Improvement
IX. PELNI Operations and Management Impxovement
X. Container Opexations and Management Improvement
XI. Sea CommuDications Organization and Management
XII. Maxitime Legislation Reforms
XIII.  Manpowex Development and Txaining
XIV. Customs Pxoceduxes Impxovement
XV. Fleet Development and Financing



ANNEX 1
Page 2
- 43 -
THE MARITIME SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Status Report
I. Maritime Sectox Development Strategy
Draft Strategy Paper completed by consultants Temple, Barker and Sloane
(USA) and P.T. Bina Cita Mayapada (Indonesia) in Februaxy 1985. Govern-
ment discussions of paper scheduled for July 1985. Strategy to be es-
tablished during second half of 1985.
II. Shipping Services Improvement
Experimental pxogxam started in East Indonesia in 1984, to be completed
by late 1985. Pxogram is based on ILS concept elaborated by Maritime
Reseach IDstitute Nethexlands.
III. Crash Program to Eliminate Bottlenecks in Gateway Ports
Program successfully completed in 1983, with assistance provided by
Amsterdam Port Consultants (Netherlands).
IV. Port Planning and Engineexing
Successfully completed in 1984 for all pxincipal ports with Bank, ADB,
JTCA, KfW and Dutch financial assistance.
V.  Ship Repair and Maintenance Improvement
Masterplans for Repair and Maintenance by Dockyards, and Planned MaiD-
tenance System completed in 1983 by Sugandi Associates (Indonesia).
Implementation of Mastexplan provisions in hand through Ministry of
Research and Technology (BPPT).
VI. Navigational Aid and Telecommunications Systems Improvement
Masterplan prepaxed in 1984 for Navaids by DGSC, and in 1982 fox Mari-
time Telecom systems by JICA. Navaid improvements being implemented
with U.K. bilateral assistance, and OECF financing is pxovided for on-
going telecom systems development.
VII. Dredging Impxovement
Action plan established in 1983 with help of Dutch/Belgian experts.
Dredging was arxanged and managed by DGSC until 1983. Together with
the new public port corporations the Public Dredging Corporatlon
(PERUMPEN) was established in 1983. PERUMPEN is organized and will
be managed in line with commexcial principles. Training of PERUMPEN
managers and staff has been initiated aDd is carried out by Parapat
and Associates (Indonesia).



AMD  1
Page 3
- 44 -
VIII. Maritime Safety Improvement
A broad based training program covering ship inspection, radio and
engine surveying was successfully completed with IMO assistance in
1984.  IMO experts also advised iD axranging for impxoved sea wor-
thiness certification procedures.
IX. PELNI Operations and MaDagement Improvements
A coDcerted action progxam aimed at improving the operational and
financial performance of PELNI is being implemented with the assis-
tance of PTC, Hapag Lloyd and individual advisers. As a result of
the action program, PELNI's fleet utilization increased by 40%, and
the financial xesults for 1984 xepxesented significant improvements
ovex comparable results during preceding years.
X. Containex Operations and Management Improvement
This action was successfully completed in 1984. The aim was to stream-
line container handling and equipment managemeDt in Tanjung Priok's
UTC. Expexts wexe provided by the Poxts of Bremen/Bremerhaven (FRG).
XI.  Sea Communications Organization and Management
A masterplan for reoxganizing the Sea Communications administration
was drawn up in 1983 by Paxapat Associates .nd P.T. Axtifact (Indo-
nesia), in association with PTC (FRG). The new pubic port corpora-
tions and the Public Dredging Corporation were established on the
basis of the mastexplan recommendations. A reoxganization of DGSC in
line with the new sector management axxangements is to be initiated.
XII. Maritime Legislation Reforms
The Faculty of Law of the Uviversity of IDdonesia (UI) was commissioned
in 1984 to review the entire maritime legislation with a view to iden-
tify obsolete laws and to arrange for necessary adjustments in the le-
gal framework in the light of recent developments. A planned outcome
of these efforts is a unified shipping act to be established by 1988.
International maritime law experts are assisting UI in these tasks.
XIII.  Manpower Development and Training
A manpowex development and training masterplan was established by DHV
(Netherlands) in cooperation with LMIP (Indonesia) in 1983. The
Masterplan has since served as guiding framevork for all maritime
pexsonnel txaining. Following txaining pxograms were successfully
completed in 1983 and 1984:
(a) container terminal staff by the Poxt of Singapore Authority;
(b) selected stevedoring and port labor by LMIP;



ANNEX 1
Pag e 4
- 45 -
(c) maritime safety personnel iD DGSC by IMO experts;
(d) radio operator training by LMIP; and
(e) public port cqrpoxations and Public Dredging Corpozation man-
agexs by Parapat Associates.
XIV.  Customs Procedures Improvements
A pxoblem analysis and associated xemedial action progxam was pxepared
by a BEA CUKAI task force with U.S. Customs assistaDce in 1983/84. The
action pxogram is DOW being Implemented.
XV. Fleet Developm..int and Financing
PANN is reviewing different options to asrange for effective mechanisms
to meet credit xequirements of domestic shipping companies fox invest-
ment and woXking capital. Recommendations will be formulated by mid
1985.
May 1985



ANNEX 2
Page 1
_ 46 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF PRESIDENTIAL INSTRUCTION NO. 4
OF 1985
A. Custom Inspection of Seaborne Caxgoes
1. Cargoes with domestic origins and destinations will not be any longer
subject to customs inspectioD pxocedures (AVI).
2. Export cargoes shall not be any longex subjected to customs inspections.
3. The nature, quantity, value and amount of due taxes of import caxgoes
shall be verified at the ports of origin by internationally certified
surveyoXs (Societe Generale de Surveillance). On the basis of the sur-
veyors' statements the impoxters have to settle the import duties with
a state bank. Against bank certified proof of duty payment the importexs
can remove the import cargoes from port axeras.
B. International Shipping
4. Foreign shipping companies are free to call at any port open to inter-
national trade, and permissions previously required for these companies
to enter a port have been abolished.
5. Foreign shipping companies are free to choose any local agent to act on
their behalf.
C. Terminal Operations
6.  Within a pexiod of one ypax aftex the issuance of the Presidential In-
structions, unloading and loading of seaborne cargoes shall no longer
be carried out by shipping companies but be performed by qualified
enterprises established for such purposes.
7.  Caxgo loading and unloading shall be carried out in three shifts during
24 hours.  Port labor (YUKA) will be reorganized and its management
streamlined. Port worker compensation will be improved.
D. Fxeight Forwaxding
8. Cargo and document handling in ports and land transport of sea shipments
can be carried out without limitation by any party, including customs
brokers, freight forwardexs, shipping companies, traders or individuals.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
- 47 -
9. The compulsory touting of import cargoes from Asian ports through the
warehouse complex in Cakung (Jakarta) is discontinued. Such cargoes
arxiving in Tanjung Priok can be directly delivered out of the port.
E. Port Chaxges
10. The past multitude of port chazges and fees has been consolidated and
simplified.
11. Harbour dues payable by foreign flag liner and conference carriers have
been reduced to the same level applicable to national ocean-going ship-
ping companies.
12. Cargo loading and unloading charges have been reduced.
F. Inter-Island Sea Transport Tariffs
13. Only one tariff shall be applicable to all types of cargo. The Govern-
ment will fix a tariff ceiling; the actual charges will be negotiated
between shippers and shipping companies.
G. Port Administration
14. The position of a port administrator has been established. The port
administrator is xesponsible for ensuxing efficient and coordinated pro-
vision of all services, publlc or private, in ports. To these ends the
port administratoxs are empowered with substantial authority; they re-
port directly to the Minister of Communications.
May 1985



ANNEX 3
Page 1
- 48 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
PERUMPEL II CORPORATE PLAN
1.        By its charter, PERUMPEL II had to prepare a Coxpozate Plan (CP),
which, after xeview by GOI, will form the basis for its operations fox the next
several yeaxs. The C'P, which is included in the Project file, focusses oD the
Corporation's principal objective to ptovide port services In an efficient mannex
and at low cost. The plan covers the time until 1989, but recognizes that PER-
UMPEL II must be able to react quickly to future opportunities and changes In
the system, and that the present CP therefore would be subject to adjustments
and modifications as the need arises. The CP discusses the realization of the
Corporation's objective from several points:
1. required improvement In service quality and productivity;
2. the use of the Corporation's resouxces; and
3. financial implications.
2.        The discussion of xeguired improvement In service quality sets foxth
fairly detailed port productivity taxgets including a timeplan fox theix achieve-
ment. Measures to achieve these targets include reorganizing terminal services,
improving cargo handling arrangements, suppoxt services and documentation, and
complementaxy measuxes such aS iLmpoved ovexall management and bettex use of
available facilities. Moxe detail on indivldual proposed actions La giveo iD
the Tanjung Priok Port Operations Impxovement Program (Annex 4).
3.        The discussion of the use of the Corporation's resources addresses phys-
ical and hbuan resources. The first describes the planned investment program
over the next several years, grouped into investments in port facilities and the
planned development of a management Information system which would be computex-
ized and extended to all poxts in PERUMPEL II. Planned is also better utillza-
tion of available facilities through upgraded malntenance and repair. Detailed
plans in the axra of human resources Include general strengthening of Persoonel
Management (Training and Career Development). Specific planned enhancements
would be In planning, policy setting and finance (billing and collection pro-
cedures).
4.        Finally, the financial implications of the CP axe analyzed.  PERUMPEL II
expects that with tight control and efficiency improvements It can hold Its cost
incxeases to about 2Z less than the level of inflation. It also expects to gradu-
ally reduce the size of Its staff through natural attrltion. Despite this, only
an lisignificant operating profit is projected for 1987 and an operatlog low Is
projected for 1988. To prevent thls from happeniog, PERUMPEL II proposes an aver-
age tariff adjustment in 1987 of 15 throughout its systeu of ports, whlch would
provide acceptable operating profits until the early 1990s. In this case, the
operating ratio would peak at 991 in 1986 and then hover around 90% to 91X for the
next two years.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
_ .9 _
5.        The CP also includes a brief, general discussion of potentlal futuxe
oppoxtunities fox the Corpoxation (for example, Resulting froc its locatioo in
the economically most Important paxt of the countxy), and potential risks (for
exaMple, Zesulting fiom the weakness of the domestic shipping sectox, and from
Govezument zegulation). It is planned that the situation be caxefully monitoxed
as it develops, to steex a clear couxse towards fulfilling the Coxpoxation's mis-
sion.
May 1985



ANNEX 4
- 50 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT OPERATIONS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
1.        The Poxt Operations Improvement Action Plan centers on four areas
of inDtervention:
1.  Poxt Management,
2.  Documentation,
3.  Poxt Services, and
4.  Port Labor Oxganization.
2.        The thrust behind planned actions to improve port management is on
(a) the establishment of daily central disposition planDing and associated
axxangements, (b) rearrangement of cargo flows and storage, (c) improved
bexth allocation proceduxes, and (d) coordination of all parties involved
in port operxations.
3.        PlaDned actions in the axea of documentatioD involve (a) standard-
ization of port documents, and (b) simplification of documentation pxoceduxes.
4.        The most divexsified set of planned actions is in the axea of port
sexvices, which are subdivided under thxee principal headings, i.e. (a) cargo
handling, (b) working time, and (c) terminal opexatora. The interventions in
caxgo handling will include the establishment of most cost-effective arxange-
ments for processing different kinds of cargo and ships, considering labor and
equipment inputs, packing, stoxing and handling. Undex the heading "woxking
time' different measuxes will be taken to synchronize the working hours of all
paxties involved in pxoviding services and Government functions, to introduce
multi-shift arrangements, and to eliminate idle pexiods, which, in the past,
were due to ineffective scheduling. Concexning terminal onerators, actions
axe aimed at establishing contxacts based on productivity targets. Such new
contracts with terminal operatoxs will be xigidly enforced, and all present
operators who do not comply with the productivity targets will be given notice.
In such cases new terminal operators would be contracted on the basis of com-
petitive bidding.
5.        In the axea of port labor oxganizatioD fax-reaching changes in the
present set-up fox labor management, compeDsation and deployment are being
considered. Indications about the nature of these changes axe given in para.
3.16.
6.        Fuxther action details are given in the Tanjung Ptiok Port Optimiza-
tion Study, dated May 1984, and in PERUMPEL II-s Poxt Opexations Improvement
Action Program Repoxt, dated March 1985. Copies are available in the Ptoject
file. The Report indicates that all planned actions will be taken and associ-
ated measures will be introduced by October 1985.
7. Given the expeximental character of many of the planned actions and the
present inevitable uncextainty about theix operational impact, their effec-
tiveness will be monitored, and adjustments made, as and when xequixed. Once
optimal arrangements and procedures have been elaborated, they will be intxo-
duced iD other ports in Indonesia.
May 1985



ANNEX 5
-  51 -                                    Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE PROJECT 2ORTS
I. Opdrational Statistics
A. TANJUNG PRIOK
1. Cargo Traffic (toDs)
Intexnational Traffic            IDtex-island Txaffic         Total
Year          Import          Export         Unloading         Loading
1970         2,371,815       219,113         202,156         197,365       2,990,450
1975         4,282,129       124,337         504,632         406,169       5,317,267
1980         5,766,459       780,306         944,168         999,805       8,490,738
1981         5,863,552       947,058       1,186,569       1,286,914       9,284,093
1982         5,972,165       738,379       1,215,655       1,226,015       9,152,214
1983         6,249,453       743,741       1,250,807       1,055,812       9,299,813
1984            n.a.           n.a.           n.a.            n.a.         9,767,919
1979      1980      1981        1982         1983
2. Container Traffic  TEUs    55,245    87,110   140,157        174,830      182,620
tons   428,024   634,940   976,409   1,246,315   1,298,157
3. Ship Calls
- Oceangoing              1,831      2,021     2,102        2,169        1,972
- Intexisland             2,006      2,202     2,882        2,640        2,634
- Tankers                   509        496       426          442          432
Total                     4,346      4,719     5,409        5,251        5,038
4.Average Ship Waiting Time (hours)
- Oceangoing                 14         16        13           15            9
- Interisland                15         11        12           10            6
- Tankexs                    37         27        26           50           24
5. Average Berthing Time (hours)
- Oceangoing                103         83        83           68           59
- Interisland               106         85       108           86           82
- Tankers                    86         49        46           66           68
6. Berth Occupancy Ratios           67%       68%        69%          64%         53%
7. Port Labor                   5,830      6,548      5,582       5,302        4,422
May 1985



ANNEX 5
Page 2
- 52 -
B. TELUK BAYUR
1. Cargo Traffic (tons)
Intexnational Txaffic        Inter-island Traffic         Total
Yeax        Import          Export       Unloading    Loading
1970          33,038        42,241        51,886        83,962         211,127
1975         158,351       329,744        73,939       214,993         777,027
1980         130,506       363,003       228,226       373,622       1,095,357
1981         171,900       282,868       320,440       457,933       1,243,141
1982         552,239       280,316       310,772       418,122       1,161,449
1983         159,584       375,528       327,864       478,365       1,341,341
1984           n.a.          n.a.          u.a.          n.a.        1,665,561
1979       1980        1981      1982        1983
2. Container Txaf'ic
TEUs                      -          -         136       345         264
tons                      -          -       1,720     4,771       3,609
3. Ship Calls
- Oceangoing            183        167         205       185         213
- Interisland           320        349         399       419         461
- TankeXs               109        133         131       124         126
Total                   612        649         735       728         801
4. Avexage Ship Waiting Time (hours)
- Oceangoing            132        120         113        77          65
- Intexisland           126        117          86        50          45
- Tankxs                17         18          22        37          64
5. Average Berthing Time (hours)
- Oceangoing            108         93          89        91          87
- Intexisland            96         84          79        82          76
- Tankers                17         18          22        37          64
6. Bexth Occupancy Ratios    100%         93X         98%       95%         90X
7. Port Labox                 438        465         463       410         400
May 1985



ANNX 5
Page 3
C. PANJANG
1. Caxgo Txaffic (tons)
International Traffic       Inter-island Traffic         Total
Year        Import         Expoxt        Unloading    Loading
1980         127,790      409,887        343,668       66,950        948,295
1981          62,996      377,519        220,315       54,909        715,739
1982         147,151      240,344        241,804       51,008       680,307
1983         120,682      306,823        147,481       37,185        612,171
1984           D.a.         n.a.           n.a.         D.a.         694,166
1979     1980      1981      1982       1983
2. Container Traffic
TEUs                       -         -         -         -     4,931
toDS                       -         -         -         -    26,930
3. Ship Calls
- Oceangoing             267       274       230       239       238
- Interisland            119        99        65        91         99
- Tankers                158      231        213       158       154
Total                    544       604       508       488       491
4. Average Ship Waiting Time (hours)
- Oceangoing             n.a.     n.ap       n.a.      D.a.       25
- Interisland            n.a.    n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       19
- Tankers                n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       33
5. Average Berthing Time (hours)
- Oceangoing             n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       76
- Interisland            n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       83
- Tanokers               n.a.    n.a.        n.        n.e.       67
6. Bexth Occupancy Ratios       65X      64%        53%      59%         57%
7. Port Labor                1,050      900        750      700         750
May 1985



ANNEX 5
Page 4
-54 -
D. PALENHBANG
1. Cargo Traffic (tons)
International Txaffic        Intex-island Traffic         Total
Yeax        Import          Export        Unloading    Loading
1980         290,854    1,082,226         527,874     1,748,421       3,649,377
1981         186,696       637,110        660,875     1,882,115       3,366,796
1982         194,865       512,302        570,004     1,749,907       3,027,078
1983         185,866       941,278        603,087     1,870,746       3,600,977
1984           n.a.          n.a.           n.a.        n.a.          3,324,333
1979       1980        1981       1982        1983
2. Container Txaffic
TEUs                     -          -         139        313         467
tons                     -          -       1,400      3,361       8,186
3. Ship Calls
- Oceangoing           264        269         219        194         234
- Interisland       3,684       3,574       3,979      3,504       3,575
- Tankers            1,377      1,329       1,261      1,066         990
Total                55325      5,172       5P459      4,764       4,799
4. Average Ship Waiting Time (hours)
- Oceangoing & IDterisland         65          57         84          58
- TaDkers                          48          62         53          35
5. Average Berthivg Time (hours)
- Oceangoing & Interisland         52          65         54          85
- TaDkprs                          33          35         44          45
6. Bexth Occupancy Ratios    85%         90%         79%         84Z        75%
7. Port Labor                605        861         758        580         639
May 1985



ANNEX 5
Page5
-55
E. PONTIANAK
1. Ca8go Txaffic (tons)
Year        Intexnational Traffic         IDtex-island Traffic         Total
1980              516,020                       494,197              1,010,217
1981              585,972                       463,859              1,049,831
1982              583,972                       673,504              1,257,476
1983              302,423                       663,087                965,510
1984                n.a.                          D.a.               1,538,119
1979     1980       1981      1982       1983
2. Containex Traffic
TEUS                        -        -          -         -          -
toDs                        -        -          -         -          -
3. Ship Calls
- Oceangoing              125      166        244       151        145
- lutexisland             376      311        288       377        328
- Tankexs                 190      208        208       137        157
Total                     691      685        740       665        630
4. Average Ship Waiting Time (hours)
- Oceangoing              D.a.      D.a.       64        92        128
- Interisland             v.a.     n.a.       150       133        154
- Tankers                 D.a.     v.a.       152       261        264
5. Avexage Berthing Time -(houxs)
- Oceangoing              n.a.     n.a.         6         3          4
- IDtexisland             V.a.     n.a.        33        32         55
- Tankers                 D.a.     v.a.        16        25          5
May 1985



ANNEX 5
Page 6
56 -
II. ExistiDg Facilities
A. TANJUNG PRIOK
1.        Tanjung Priok port, on the North coast of West Java, serves the
capital Jakarta, and its populous metropolitan area. It is the couvtry's
largest general cargo port, which handles 30% of Indonesls's total genexal
caxgo trade, and provides a base for all maritime-related government agencies.
The port is protected by a silt-excluding breakwater, which gives adequate
protection, and has access through two short entrance chanvels.  Channel
depth is 11.0 m, with a tidal range of 1.4 a and mean high water about 0.9 m.
Annual maintenance dredging aggregated 200,000 cubic meters, but has been iD-
sufficient. Effective water depths have decreased by 20Z-25% during the last
5 yeaxs, due to inadequate dredging provisions. Navigational aids are satis-
factoxy.
2.        The port area is intexspersed by a canal and six main basiDs which
provide a total berth length of 10,984 m for the following main facilities:
Type of bexth          Cargo          Length   Depth    Maximum Ship Size
(m)      (m)            (DWT)
Deep Sea         Genexal               4,698     8-11    20,000
Inter-Island    General and
passengers          5,586     5-8     10,000
Bulk             Cement, fertilizer      300    10-11    35,000
and grain
Containex       Containers               400     8-11    28,000 (1,400 TEU)
3.        The ocean-going ships, carxying bxeak-bulk genexal cargo, operate
at Basins I (East), II and III while the shallowex dxaft, regional and inter-
island ships operate in the Western basins (Regional Harboux). There axe
20 transit sheds sexving the deep sea vessels and 15 in the regional haxbox
axea. The oil basin accommodates foux oil berths and a berth for bulk wheat
imports. While petroleum pxoducts and some bulk pxoducts use xail txanspoxt,
the port is pxedominantly served by road. Roads inside the port axe good but
extexnal roads in the port environs axe narrow and fxequently congested. All
sexvices such as watex, bunkers, electricity and communications axe pxovided
in the port. The port only has thxee genexal caxgo cranes because ships com-
monly load and unload usiDg their own geax. The UTC container texminal has
thxee container cranes. Adequate numbers of mechanical equipment including
transtainers, foxk-lifts, mobile cranes, tractoxs and trailers are available
fxom the Corporation and terminal operating companies. Floating craft include
eight tugs, three floating cranes, pilot cutters and mooxing boats and axe able
to handle the port's pxesent and near texm needs. Structures axe, in geneXal,
in a good state of xepaix but mechanical cargo-handling equipment, while cux-
rently adequate fox pxesent traffic, is in need of improved maintenance.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
- 57-
B. TELUR BAYUR
1.        Teluk Bayur serves as the main port fox deep-sea vessels on the
West Coast of Sumatra. The major products handled are imports of petroleum,
fertilizers and food products, and exports of cement, coal, rubber, timber
and food products. Rapidly increasing passenger txaffic is also handled.
The main population centers iD the port's hinterland axe connected to the
port by railroad and paved highway. The port is located in a we.l-sheltered
bay and, although there axe coral reefs and shoals in the vicinity, they do
not inhibit navigation. The water depth in the approach chaDnel is 9 m, and
requixes only minimal dredging, with 10 m available alongside some of the
berths in the port. Mean tidal range is 1.3 m. Aids to navigation include
a lighthouse, five lighted beacons, and two markers. The port is protected
by two bxeakwaters, 80 m and 275 m long of rubble mound construction and,
during a xecent strengthening of the main breakwater, a 1.0 m high wave-
deflector was added.
2.        Inside the port there are bulk-handling facilities for asphalt,
oil pxoducts, coal and cement; a dockyard fox vessels up to 300 DWT; and
five maxrginal berths for general cargo of which one is desigDated for fex-
tilizex txaffic. Of the five marginal berths, bexth I is currently being
rehabilitated to transform it into a 150 m long berth of steel pile and con-
crete deck construction. Berths II and III are built on cast-ixoo, screw
piles with timber decks, not sufficiently strong to carxy modern cargo-
handling equipment. Berths I to III, although in alignment, are discon-
tinuous and thereby inhibit efficient berth utilization. Berth IV, of simi-
lar construction, is west of and perpendiculax to Bexth III and is used for
fertilizer handling, which occupies 8,000 sq m of adjacent leased land. The
total length of quay of Bexths I to IV is 462 m and each berth-is provided
with old and dilapidated transit sheds which inhibit efficient cargo opera-
tions. Berth V is a small general-purpose bexth 30 m long with a draft of
7.5 m. A small, dangerous cargo berth is pxovided by a 55 m long floating
fendex and used mainly for small tankers up to 5,000 dwt. Fire-fighting
equipment is pxovided aboard the ports- two tugs. Fxesh water and elec-
tricity is available at all berths.
C. PANJANG
The Port of Panjang is located at the Southern tip of Sumatra and
is a terminus of the South Sumatra Railway system and of the inter-island
ferrv from Merak, West Java. The port site is a natuxal harbor protected
by a promontory oD the land side and by a submerged coral reef extending
into a bay. The approach channel has a width of 150 m and a minimum water
depth of 14.0, the tidal range is 1.2 m. The port has a total wharf length
of 772 m for general cargo and ferry operations with water depths varying
from 4.0 to 11.0 m. In addition to the four general cargo quays and their
related transit sheds there axe two tank farms, one for petroleum products,
the other for molasses. The 210 m quay D, at the East side of the port is
being extended by 200 m with KfW financing.  Poor soil conditions have de-
layed this work with completion now expected iD JuDe 1985. The port is
served by rail and road, and water and electricity are provided. Port
structures are old and often dilapidated. Mechanical equipment is adequate



ANNEX 5
Page 8
- 58 -
fox the poxt's pxesent needs but xequixes bettex maintenance. Port services
include water, electricity and a fixe-fighting truck. A vacant area North-
East of the poxt is being xeclaimed, by dumping of maxine spoil, fox future
port or poxt-xelated development.
D.  PALEMBANG
1.        The Southeast Sumatran Poxt of Palembang is located 100 km fxom
the sea on the Musi xiver. The xivex has a minimum depth of about 4 m be-
cause of sevexal sand bars and is continuously dredged to 6-7 m. Tidal
ranges in the rivex vaxy fxom about I m to 2 m. The minimum bottom channel
width is 150 m.
2.        Palembacg City and poxt axe located along the Musi River, with
developments on both banks and a connection provided by the Ampexa bxidge.
The water-fxont industxial facilities include two petroleum xefinexies, a
laxge fextilizer complex, a plywood factoxy, and sevexal rubber pxocessing
plants, coffee-sorting entexprises, salt and coal lending whaxves, sawmills
and shipyaxds. The public whaxves axe downstream of the bridge on the left
bank. Small ships and lUghters axe handled at anchorages immediately down-
stxeam of the bridge.
3.        The watexfxont facilities of the xubbex-factoxies, sawmills, etc.
are only suitable for xiver boats, lighters, sailing vessels and the smallex
LOKAL ships. The Pusri jetty handles bulk fertilizex ships of 7,500 DWT
while the Pertamina jetties can handle flat-bottomed tankexs of up to 17,000
DWT. The public terminal serves ocean-going, inter-island and LOKAL shipping.
It comprises a 375 m xeinforced concrete quay, used by inter-island vessels,
separated by the fuel jetty of the local electxic power plant from a 280 m quay,
handling genexal cargo. Depth alongside is 7.0 m. Four transit sheds provide
8,000 sq. m of covered area. The poxt has some 23,000 sq. m of back-up area
where general cargo is stoxed, and containexs axe stored, stuffed and stripped.
Inhibiting caxgo flow in the backup axea are a mosque, a small cemetery and a
xivex-water pumping station. Sailing vessels axe handled at a 78 m whaxf some
200 m downstream from this site and in futuxe will move to a new 160 a long
quay being completed 7 km downstream. The port installations are mainly old
but serviceable and generally in need of upgrading to handle present-day traf-
fic. The port's mechanical equipment is in need of improved maintenance. The
port operates four tugboats, three pilot boats, two mooring boats, two speed
boats and two water baxges, some being owned, the othexs chartered.
E. PONTIANAK
1.        The Port of Pontianak is located on the southern bank of Kapuas
Kecil River, near its confluence with the Landak River. The boundary of the
port interest and jurisdiction covers 3,800 m river length, including an area
between the watexfront and the mainroads, which run parallel to the river at
about 200 m distance from the bank. Within this area the main public port
and the Pelabuhan Kecil (sail boat harbour) are located, together with other
facilities operated by the Government or private companies, which include
factories, saw mills, oil mills, xubber sheds, a petroleum tankfarm, a ferry



ANNEX 5
Page 9
- 59 -
terminal, and shipyards.  In this river section there is also a midstream
anchorage and operation.
2.        The main public port facility is located on a strip of land roughly
680 m long and 145 m wide. The area within the port fence covers 8.6 ha. The
landside boundary of the port is congested. A narrow public city road is run-
niDg from the city centxe over a considerable distance parallel to the river.
The Pelabuhan Kecil, about 1.5 km upstxeam of the main port, is located almost
in the middle of the congested commercial center of Pontianak, hemmed-in by
shops, little workshops, etc. Ships calling at the Pontianak port facilities
usually do not exceed a draft of 5 m due to the restricted waterdepth of a bar
at the rivermouth, which is maintaiDed through regular dredging operations.
3.        The main public port incorporates 4 bexths.  Quay 01 (140 m) is an
old wooden quay used for LOKAL vessels only, and was constructed in 1940.
Part of the quay Is in a very bad condition, and actually only 122 m of the
length can be used for cargo handling activities. Quay 02 (75 m) is a new
concrete structure to handle RLS traffic vessels. Two txestles, connecting
the quay to shore, are presently under construction. Until now all cargo
here has to be handled via quay 03. It has no back-up area nor a shed.
Quay 03 (117 m) is a concrete quay, constructed in 1963. The deck level
is higher than the other quays, and the quay width is too narrow fox mechan-
ical operation. Quay 05 is a concrete quay for RLS vessels opened recently.
There is no shed in the back-up area; 2 trestles connect the quay to shore.
There are only 2 godowDs in the port; one old woodeD transit shed (shed 01)
with an area of 1,650 m , and a conciete shed (shed 03) with 2,500 m . Paved
open storage covers 6,000 m behind shed 03, and an open paved azea of about
2,000 m behind Quay 05. All ships use their own gear for unloading on the
quays. Bagged and other goods, such as caxton boxes or drums are handled
manually. Only for heavy goods, such as structural steel, foxklift trucks
are used. Port equipment is insufficient in numbez and poorly maintained.
Hay 1985



-60                                                   AM 5
INDOINESIA                                             ra8e 1U
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanjun,g Priok: Traffic Projections
('000 tons)
1990
temLs car"                    Outasiw  Cairn                  Tocl Carip
Comdiylae-   ns-    TLlIo   ae-   -oa   tu- ocm-
Ulobd    GOgLim               ZutlA    Go e         e 1glLae"    0.mg              Tcl
Timbr                     467.2        0.0      tl7.2      41.4        0.0       4.3     733.3       0.0       733.3
saw, _1                     0.0      232.4      232.4     77.2        0.0       77.2      77.2     232.4      309.b
Copra                      34.3        0.0       34.3      0.0         0.0       0.0      34.3       0.0       34.J
tbb.r                     337.3        5.4      342.7     42.0       150.4     r93.2      M0.1     155.3      535.9
tUce                        2.0    I.110.0    1.1I2.0    315.7         0.0     355.7 1   37.1   l.230.0    I.537.7
La.  l  id                219.4       03.5      222.9    40.7        311.7     372.4     220.1     375.2      595.3
Naie                       20.9        0.0       20.9       7.3        0.0       7.3      23.2       0.0        25.2
TeS_*a                      2.3        0.0        2.3      13.0        0.0      13.0      15.3       0.0        15.3
Sud & mee                I29.4       499.1      499.1    125.9        0.0      125.9     325.5     49.5        25s.0
coat                        1.0        0.0         2.0     0.0        0.0        0.0       1.0       0.0         2.0
_Pbeit                    243.0        0.0 o     43.1       2.4        0.0       2.1    244.0        0.0      244.4
Camicals                    6.3      439.9      724.2    349.4        17.0    367.0    43'.7    057 .        1.093.2
Cium   p*eda               99.        55.3      IS5.4   182.2          2.5     1".7      DI.t[      58.3      340.1
_M-large                   20.7      259.4      131.1     97.4         3.9      99.1     12*.1     22.3       295.4
1.11                       24.0        0.0       30.0      3.2        0.0        3.       37.2       0.0        17.2
CepitL.  a."                I2.0      11.1      69.1    533.0         13.9     141.1     575.0    631.0   1401.0
mm 4 *dm                   I2.I      203.9      24.5   570.4          3.5    2M.1        le7.g    240.0       42.2
011   "age                502.7      2272.      775.3      19.3       79.0    90.3       522.0     351.6      373.4
Otlbe  tow                505.1       11.4      531.7   159.3        53.7   25Y.3        702.9      08.3       710.2
Llveete                    23.3        0.0       23.3      0.0        0.0       0.0       22.3       0.0       23.3
teal teamet Crga        2.w.3l   4.139.1    7.117.2  2,307.3         071.1  2.939.4    5.2.9   4,620.9   10 090.1
Peg:lles.                 13.1         0.0      13.1    162.7        41.4   240.3        90.6       01.4    1.057.4
Come.. iadmecry           229.9       37.5      247.4    710.         0.0    710.0       979.9      37.1    1.017.4
ti.eg                       0.0      920.0      920.0    510.0        0.0   210.0        550.0    920.0    2.070.0
Liquid themicala            0.0      244.0      344.0      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     244.0      I44.0
Total Special Cerum     2.043.0    3.501.1    2.344.5  2.092.?       61.6  3.144.3    2.525.?   1.203.5    3.2U8.2
Total CeeaLmer Cargo      311.0    2,230.1  2.517.8    293.3    3,224.7                          ).,Ll.. 04.3   345.3    4,103.
TWTL CAM                 .370.;    7,471.4    32 .9.5  1,082.6      .913.5 I5.0)9.9    80.9I    9. 9       2.48
2 0 00                    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
l,e-ift cowe                  0.40.mg Cera                   Tesel Lewi
t _L"d  tC_"             Wood 2  |m                    l t  |lm-
Timbe                       907.5       0.0     367.5      97.0         0.0     97.3  I.05.3         0.0   1.05.3
Sea. maJLm                    0.0     254.6    2MA.        35.3        0.0    3S1.3       85.3     254.       42.3
Cepre                        41.9       0.0      41.3       0.0        0.0       0.0      42.6       0.0      42.1
bber                        445.0       7.3     452.3      50.4      202.1    216.3    501.4       209.4     710.3
SIec                          2.2   1.303.9   1,304.1    393.0         0.0    393.0      395.2   1.303.9  .2 .09.5
An1ima  to"                 235.9      94.0    329.9       S9.t      4421.3    53.1      325.7     555.3     131.0
Hsi"                         25.5       0.0      25.5       3.9        0.0       6.9      34.4       0.0      34.4
Tobacc                        2.7       0.0       2.7       15.5        0.0     15.5    2I.2         0.0      16.2
U=    *ma                   215.4    739.3   1.034.7       53. 3       0.0    334.3      413.7     739.3   1.221.0
coal                           .0      .0.0       3.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       4.0       0.0        2.0
AepO44c           n          97.2       0.0     37.2        4.2        0.0       4.2     401.4       0.0     405.4
Ceemicele                   126.3     94 .9   .073.2    531.7         20.0   537.7       436.0     972.9   I.010.9
C..m   m e" p..353.3                   90.      209.4     290.         4.5    214,2      418.5      95.0    543.5
Hea-ferweua                  29.3     170.1     20.4   130.3           2.1   112.9    140.1    157.2         323.)
smit                         27.1       0.0      17.1       3.9        0.0      3.9       21.0       0.0      21.0
cepsaal ga"                  06.3   S.332.t  2. 39.4   860.4          22.4   690.2       935.9   1,353.7  2I29.4
2mm * *t_.*                  15.1    244.1      2451.2    20.7         4.'    257.1      21.8      292.1    15.3
01l. 4 fae                  612.3    332.3        5.2 1    23.5       94.5    359.3    034.3       4238.    2,044.9
ot.e tow                    04.3        53.0    679.9    23.9         76.2    333.1      93.2       93.3  .101.0
ULvesee_  23.4                          0.0      26.1      0.0         0.0   . 0.0        2U6.       0.2      20.4
7eg1l tbaeei Cee t;n      4. 154.3   5.50.3  9.09.3 3|234.3          937.1 4*151.4   7.3.e66        n     23.344.2
FOaLLAiMS                 1.324.5       0.0   1.5-s    W.            100.3  - 397.9   I.42,        100.3   3.722.4
Ct_.c iuduery               1734.1     41.      431.4  1.221.7         0.0  3.221.7   1.59.2        *3.2   1.057.)
L%Mg                          0.0   1.301.o   2.341.U    222.0         0.0    222.0      222.0     979.0   1,503.3
Liquid chemical.              0.0     213.2     233.2      0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0      213.2    223.2
Tecal Specia Cere         3.09.0   1.034.2   3.335.1  5.f41.3        100.3  2I.42.0   3.*M0.3   2.7)4.4   5.574.7
legal C Gsaima  Cerga       $22.0   3.31.4I 3.82.4I  43.4A          .419.  2.090.1    911.0   5.020.9  5.97.5
TOTAL CL&OD               4.374.5  10.337.I  12.912.315,392.2      2.0949  3.0619.1 11.704.7  53.234.7  25,005.4
Source:  Peter Fraenkel and Partners. PTC & Wiratman and Associates:
Tanjung Priok Port Optimization Study, May 1984
May 1985



ANNEX 5
Page I1
- 61 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Teluk Bayux: Tsaffic Projections
( 000 tons)
Commodity               Service                    1990             2000
In    Out       ID    Out
Fertillzer (bags)      ILS/IMP                      40     10       180     20
Timber
Logo                 Export/Domestic               -      5         -      5
Sawn Timber          1/2 Export, 1/2 Dom.          -     48         -     80
Sawn Timber          Transshipment                26      -       29       -
Plywood              Export                        -     55         -     60
Sugar                  Domestic                     32      -        37      -
Rubber                 Export                        -     89         -    116
Rice                   Domestic, Some Coastal       70     10        90     10
Salt                  Domestic                      25      -       37       -
Capital Goods          Import                       53      -       83       -
Bldg. Materials       Domestic                      35      -       68       -
Food Products         Export/Domestlc                -     52         -     80
New-Bananas            Export                        -     40         -    150
Cassava           Domestic                       -     40         -     75
Cocoa Beans       Domestic                       -     10         -     10
Asphalt                Import                       30      -        40      -
Miscellaneous          Export/Import               170     38       275     70
Totals (In and Out)                                481    397       839    676
Total Annual Traffic                                   878             1,515
Source:  Lavalin International + Goedata BexIlan Centre
Teluk Bayur, Port Mastexplan Study, January 1984
May 1985



AX EZ 12
-62-
NATIONiL PORTS DYVEFL0?UNT ROJECT
Pan5sawg Traffic Prolectiom.
(uoO tons)
Commodity               SiSrvice                    1990             2000
Ia    Out       ID       Out
Timber-Plywood         Export/Dome*tic                     160                285
Logo           Doestic                        S       S        S         5
SawD Wood      Domestic                               3                  3
Capital Goods          lmport sad DomestIc           25               50
Iron A Steel           Domestic                      1S              30
Oils & Fate            Dometic                              10                 20
Asphalt                Imports  - Drms 1/3           52              110
Dometic - Bulk 2/3
Oth.:                  Domstic                       65     10       120       20
Fertill.Ir             Import & Domestic            120             180
Cement                 ImportlDouotlc               100
Sugar                  Domstic                              25                 35
Rice                   Domestic                             40                 80
Salt                   Dometic                      51               91
Wheat Flour            Dometic                       11              32
Maize                  Dometic                               3                  3
Taploca Flour          Domestic                             35                 so
Cassava Pellets        Export                              200                200
Copes Pellets          Export                               10                 13
Soya Flour             Impot                         1                1
Rubber                 Export                               50                149
Coffee                 Export/Som  Dometic                  98                163
P*pper                 Export                               50                149
CA                    CExport                                4                 11
Rice Husk              Export                               10                 29
Rattan 4 MIsc.         Expost                                5                 19
Totals (Tn and Out)                               495      693       609   1.4U4
Total Anoual Traffic                                  1.138             1.753
Source:  Lavalln InternatlODal & Ceodata bDelfa  Centre
Panjang. Port Masterplan Study, January 1984
May 1985



-  63  -                                    Y  5
INDONESIA                                  Page 13
1ATION1AL PORTS Dm7EWPn            PROJECT
Palembantg: Traffic Projections
C.misty                    -1u                 ______._____._
O.C.  *mt. OUba  total       O.C.  amt. Ofta Total
Atl.6                     5     4      9              I1     3      II
Garre.                   50 so     I                  e      15     75
Ota food                  4     3       7              9     3 
f kbhr                      6y    65    Ila7                    35    lU
*                         -          ,i    ,,,                    n      1
be
I.o
be     wtlts w                        3       3                     3      3
-C.mmB a                               a                      s 
L  -                            3       3                    II     10
31..                            3       1               1             3
nptZwi              I                            -                   _    
thi                1        23 _  n "
ft",        _       5         ,              *,         .     .      5.1  
hetillam                   39      35                    16      19
>_a5                                     - 
Uses  -6                 1       9     asa                     11*    II
i.imIr.m                  a4     a      na 
ba-Snt                    1  1                                         33
---_msa                  S      t       19       33    13      1*
30%5                                                                      13     4 2     | t
m1                 S                                                  o 9  9
:a                                                             i 0  Is t  X  1
AmAmal                                               3       3~~~  1 
'.4       'S.~~be                                 a      im34                           3
-                       dwa               n                 .  n          9                    I
i ~ ~ ~ a                              1    6 U3    tO *5    It    21 
.0               b     C         s        is 1e                          n  
.4 
_u               be    ft.tIlIa.                        16     16o                     II t1
WC 'a                                                     9       s *  
,~~~~~l                                             a   I                         1.  IS"U
*ta          "a                                     in
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                          I"    or  *   *,
~~~~bpIta  _~                        t                     to  
MMbW                             IT6                            11
c.amsb Toa        759          2       0         3     0        6    120
" ~~~~toamu                          14      6 a           tt       3U    19   6?        93
_ * ~~-bS  n.                                            1?
n ~    ~    ru       oa      7    290   32       702       33    30    5712



-64 -                                    AWNEX 5
Page 14
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pontianak:  Traffic Projections
('000 tons)
Commodi 1y                                      .          2000
a.C.   sg   Other Total       a.c.   aga  Other Total
Other ruod                8              a              is           Is
Rubber              5                    5        5                    5
S     B 8          13         5    15            20
PertUllern                5              5               -
U  Caseat                 26            26               -
Non-trra           10                   10       14                   18
Capital goods       2                    2        2                    2
ionisteel           U                    %        a                    8
Other rood         10                   10       is                  1i
OlM/fatt            6                    6        6                    6
32    31            63        so                  U8
Total outtwr      37    39             76        53   15             68
cumer saws          13                   13       as                   as
om-fer             16                    16       p                    30
capital good        15                  1i        as                   26
bes/atasi           *4                             2                    2
s   ~ ~ ~~Obrfood                      8                    8         6                    6
4.                                                          2      a           * $
Ca                u       apgt                              S      5                      15      18
00%                      TIr                               3       3                      5       5
u-a              UId          -               52           to      62       92            23    115
.0
Ca               U  Il                              U             U                10            10
sC_ot                     n              2                _
*tv                z        zSarm                     2              2B              37             37
NLoe               ~~~~~28        24              39            3
se1a t                                   *                7             1
AuS_L  teed                ?                            t10            10
1.                          ibes  fZ~                  10            10                     19 tg
0.H                                                  3             3               7              7
at d                        C"_mammor N ude                                   35                    35
410~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
vr44                        Ueafeu'uo            5                    5        11                   11
e 1                         Capital goods       11                   tt       20                   20
zvoe/.t.e.l        10                   10         5                    5
+    co                      o        fw tO     11                   11        2t                   21
~ ^  C _s~                       1t     11                     21      21
!  Oh.ftWta                       a      a                      13      3
<  13 r               &_L ti.t                                 2                     13      t3
g,4                         T1abor                            6       6                   .         11
.z 4i sS                                        9                    9                   16        tS
s                 g           S_1 ess            3                    3        i                     i
co u                                 65   192    20    27    .112   119    48    279
i             <Tot.al2mmr,   .U7   192    30    339                          204   119    71    394
0
o                                   T
G r~n  Total   154   231    30    415           257   134    71    462



ANNEX 6
Page 1
- 65 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, CONSULTANT SERVICES, AND TRAINING
A. Technical Assistance
1.        PERUNPEL II will recruit expert advisers to assist in establishing
and implementiog effective arrangements fox:
- Coprporate management (paras. 3.07, 3.08, 3.11, 3.13 and 6. );
- equipment management (para. 3.17); and
- port operations and management (para. 3.19).
2.        The estimated requirements for expert assistance are as follows:
Expatriate Experts   Local Exvp:ts
-----------(man-months)-----------
Corporate Management               30                  50
Port Operations                    30                  70
Equipment MaDagement               20                  40
Total                        80                 160
3.        The advisers will be placed in PERUMPEL IIs Directorate of General
Administration (Corporation administration), the Directorate of Operations (port
operations/management, and equipment management), and the Dir,ectorate of Fi-
nance (financial maagement). Recruitment will take place between July and
December 1985, and the advisory services will be intexmittently provided
thboughout the project implementation period. Aftex having established satis-
factory institutional and procedural management arrangements within its owD
organization, PERUMPEL II will make the advisers available to the other three
public port corporations for assistance iD similax efforts.
4.        DGSC will recruit expert advisers to assist in establishing and
implemeDting effective arrangements for:
- maritime sector monitoring and data management (paras. 2.11 and
2.13);
- INPRES 4/85 implementation (para. 2.25);
- seaborne trade management (para. 2.03); and
- cargo unitization (para. 5.05).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
- 66 -
5.        The estimated requirements fox expext assistaDce are as follows:
Expatriate Experts      Local Expexts
(man-months) ------------
Sector Monitoxing               50                     50
Trade Cooxdination              20                     35
Caxgo Unitization               25                    45
Total                      95                   130
6.        The advisers will be placed in DGSC's Planning Buxeau (Sector Monitor-
ing), Directorate of Sea Traffic (Trade Coordination and Cargo UnitizatioD), and
the office of DGSC's Secretaxy (INPRES 4/85 implementation). Although not dix-
ectly responsible fox trade coordination and documenc facilitation, the Directox-
ate of Sea Traffic is considered to be the most appxopriate Government agency for
these efforts, given its close links with the shipping industry and shippers. In
that sense, the Directoxate will be the lead agency and cooxdinate all Govexrnment
effoxts to stxeamline seaborne trade arxangements. Concexning cargo unitization,
the Dixectorate will provide fxee advisoxy services to the shipping industry, the
freight forwarders, and traders to assist and guide them in their effoxts to
unitize seaboxne cargoes. The experts will be recruited between July and December
1985, and the advisory services will be provided country-wide throughout the pro-
ject implementation period.
7.        MOC will recruit expert advisers to assist in establishing and imple-
menting effective arranrgemeDts fox monitoxing the performance of state txansport
entexprises (para. 1.12). The experts will be placed in MOC-s Buxeau of State
Entexpxises. The Buxeau will provide through the experts free advisory services
to state transpoxt entexprises to assist in their efforts to improve coxporate
planniDg and management. The estimated requixements for expext assistance are
as follows: 25 man-months expatriate expexts, and 40 man-months local expexts.
The expexts will be xecruited between July and December 1985, and the advisory
services will be pxovided intermittently throughout the pxoject period.
8.        MOC will also recxuit technical experts to assist in the pxepara-
tion of:
-  river transport development schemes (para. 1.11) in Kalimantan
and Sumatra;
- land and sea txansport improvement schemes (para. 1.15) aimed at
establishing an effective framework for promoting each transport
mode in line with its operational and cost advantages ovex com-
peting modes, and to design measures to impxove modal complemen-
taxity; and
- a national transport development guide (para. 1.11).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
- 67 -
9.        The estimated requriements fox technical experts axe as follows:
Expatriate Experts      Local Experts
------------(man-months)------------
River Transport Scheme               50                   70
Land/Sea Transport
Improvement Schemes                80                  100
National Transport
Development Guide                 35                   40
Total                       165                  210
10.       Preparation of the xiver transport development schemes will be the
responsibility of MOC's Dixectorate General of Land Communications whexe the
xespective experts will be placed. The broader framework for land/sea trans-
port improvement and the National Transport Development Guide will be prepared
by MOC-s Bureau of Planning. All these efforts will start in early 1986, and
are scheduled to take between 24 and 36 months; expext recruitment aDd theix
service duration will be accoxdingly.
B. Consultant Services
11.       PERUMPEL II will commission consultants to supervise civil works
in the project ports. The estimated requirements are as follows:
Port           Construction Time      Expatriate Experts      Local Experts.
(months)          -(man-months)------------
Tanjung Priok             30                      50                   100
Teluk Bayur               48                      75                   150
Panjang                   38                      25                   120
Palembang                 38                      25                   120
Pontianak                 40                      25                   130
Total                                          200                   300
The consultants will be hired between August and October 1985, and will be
managed by the Coxpoxation-s Director of Technical Affairs.
C. Training
12.       PERUMPEL II will arrange fox training of its own headquarters staff
and pexsonvel in the Corpoxation's ports. At the same time, PERUMPEL II will
provide free personnel txaining for texminal operators and freight forwarders,
who are active iD the Coxporation's ports. The Dutch assisted port worker
training (para. 4.14) will complement these efforts, fox which the Corporation
will recruit appxopriately qualified txaining expexts.  Once the txaining needs
in the PERUMPEL II zone have been essentially attended to, the Corporation will
make its training expexts available to the thxee other public port corporations
to assist in similar efforts.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
- 68 -
13.       The estimated txaining expext xequirements axe:
Expatriate Experts      Local Experts
------------ (man-months)----- -
Port Management                  30                    50
Terminal Opexators               25                    45
Freight Forwarders               20                    40
Total                       75                   135
14.       The training expexts will be placed in t'ne CoxpoxatiOn's DUr2ctorats
of General Administration. Recxuitment will take place between October 1985
avd March 1986; the experts will paxticipate in training programs during the
entire project implementation pexiod.
15.       In addition to in-house txaining, PERUMPEL II will arxange for over-
seas training fox own key staff, and selected pexsonnel from the other thxee
public port coxporations.  For these purposes following arrangements have been
tentatively scheduled:
- 15 training visits to intexnational poxts with reputation fox ef-
ficient operations and management; and
- 60 man-months secondment of one to three months duration to the
administration of such international ports of selected PERUMPEL
II and other regional port authorities personnel.
May 1985



AM=E 7
- 69 -                                               P&1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVEIoPNeNT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATE
Porelgn
Exchange
Local   Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign     Total   Proportlon
Item                    Cost      Cost       Cost        Cost      Cost       Cost         S
-------(Rp. biLlion)------       -------US   illon)
I. TANJUNG PRIOK
A. Cllvl Works
1. Site  eparation, Modi-      5.623      5.623    11.246      5.112      5.112    10.224        50
fication and Furnishing
2. Dredging                    0.055      0.132    0.187        0.050     0.120     0.170        70
3. Quay Strengthenisg          1.689      2.530    4.219        1.535     2.300    3.835         60
4. Service Buildings           1.771      1.771     3.542       1.610      1.610    3.220        50
5. Access Road and Truck       1.430      1.749    3.179        1.300      1.590    2.890        55
Park
6. Relocation of Coast         0.703      0.703     1.406      0.639      0.639     1.278        50
Guasd
7. Relocatlov of Navigatlon    1.088      1.088     2.176      0.989      0.989 .  1.978         SO
District Installations
Subtotal              12.359     13.596    25.955      11.235     12.360   23.595        52
B. Land Acquisition                1.980          -    1.980        1.800          -    1.800         0
C. Equipment
1. Container Cranes (3)        0.484      6.446     6.930       0.440      5.860    6.300        93
2. Wide-span Transtainers (8)  0.468      8.883     9.351       0.425      8.075    8.500        95
3. sall-span Transtainexs (10) 0.341      6.521     6.862       0.310      5.928    6.240        95
4. Tractoxs (21)               0.231      0.924     1.155       0.210      0.840    1.050        80
5. Chassie (30)                0.165      0.165    0.330        0.150      0.150    0.300        50
6. Spares                      0.068      0.207    0.275        0.062      0.188    0.250        75
7. Woxkshop Equipment          0.046      0.185     0.231       0.042      0.168    0.210        80
Subtotal               1.803     23.331    25.134       1.641     21.209   22.850         93
D. Construction  smangement        0.502      0.510     1.012       0.456      0.464     0.920        50
E. Physlical Contingencies         1.285      1.410     2.695       1.168      1.282     2.450
F. Price Contingencies             2.891      6.112     9.003       2.628      5.556     8.184
C. Total Costs                    20.820     44.959   65.779       18.928     40.871    59.799        68
May 1985



AMNE 7
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 70 -
Foreiso
Exchangei
Local  0Fo1.13    Total   Local   Foxe13n    Total   Proportion
Item                 Cost      Cost      Cost    Cost       Cost      Cost         S
(Rp. biflion)             -       -- - ----US$ uiullon)=
II. TELUK BAYUR
A. Civil Woxks
1. Site Preparation, Modi-  2.969     2.969    5.938   2.699        2.699    5.398        50
fication and Furnishing
2. Dredging                 0.924     2.156    3.080   0.840        1.960    2.800        70
3. Land Reclastioa          3.905     9.112    13.017   3.550       8.284    11.834       70
4. Quay Strengthening ad   7.841     11.761    19.602   7.128      10.692    17.820       60
Construction
5. Service Buildlzgs        1.142      1.142    2.284   1.038       1.038    2.076        50
Subtjtal           16.781    27.140   43.921  15.255    24.673   39.928           62
B. Land Acquisition             1.576         -    1.576   1.433           -    1.433          0
C. Equipment
1. Mobile Crane (1)         0.088     0.792    0.880   0.080       0.720    0.800         90
2. FLTo. 36 t (2)           0.055     0.495    0.550   0.050       0.450    0.500         90
3. Tractors (4)             0.044     0.176    0.220   0.040       0.160    0.200         50
4. Chassis (12)             0.066     0.066    0.132   0.060       0.060    0.120         80
5. spares                   0.028     0.083    0.111   0.025       0.075    0.100         75
6. Workshop Equipment       0.028     0.110    0.138   0.025       0.100    0.125         80
Subtotal            0.309      1.722    2.031   0.280       1.565    1.845        85
D. Constructlon MKanage -   t   0.752     0.766    1.518   0.684       0.696     1.380        50
E.  Physical Contingncies       1.752     2.791     4.543   1.593      2.537    4.130
F. Price Continogencles         4.646     6.434   11.080   4.224       5.849   10.073
C. Total Costs                 25.816    38.853    64.669  23.469    35.320    58.789         60
May 1985



248
AMIVI 7
lag* 3
71~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 71 -
-Poxrig
'Exchange
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Fox sin    Total   Propoxtion
Item                  Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost       Cost        Z
-(ip  billon)                       us   llion) ------
ll. PANiANG
A. Civil Works
1. Slt Prexparation, Modi-  2.488     2.488    4.976    2.262       2.262    4.524        S0
fleation and Furnishivg
2. Dredging                 0.100     0.235    0.335    0.091       0.214    0.305         W
3. Quay Conotruction        1.733     2.598    4.331    1.575       2.362    3.937        60
4. Service Buldings         1.717      1.717    3.434    1.561      1.561    3.122        50
Subtotal             6.038      7.Q;8   13.076    5.4U9      6.399    11.888       54
B. Land Acjuistiot              0.583         -    0.583    0.530           -    0.530
C. Equipment
1. Mobile Crane (1)         0.088     0.792    0.880    0.080       0.720    0.800        90
2. FLT. 36 t (1)            0.028     0.248    0.276    0.025       0.225    0.250        90
3. Tractors (2)             0.022     0.088    0.110    0.020       0.080    0.100        80
4. Chassis (5)              0.028     0.028    0.056    0.025       0.025    0.050        50
S. Spares                   0.021     0.062    0.083    0.0lq       0.056    0.075        75
6. Workshop Equipment       0.022     0.088    0.110    0.020       0.080    0.100        80
Subtotal            0.209      1.306    1.516    0.189      1.186     1.375       86
D. Construction Manageent       0.473     0.310    0.783    0.430       0.282    0.712        40
E. Pbysical Contingencies       0.651     0.735    1.386    0.592       0.668    1.260
F. Price Contingencies          1.819     1.957     3.776    1.654      1.779    3.433
S. Total Costs                  9.773    11.346   21.119    8.884      10.314    19.198       54
Nay 1985



AM=EX 7
-72 -
Foreign
Excbangs
Local    Foxlign      Total   Local    Forlign       Total   Phopoxtion
Item                     Coat      Cost        Cost    Cost       Cost        Cost          Z.
(Ep. bIlflon)----    --------(US mflllion)-
1V. PALENBANC
A. Civil Works
1. Site Prepaxation, Modi-   4.242       4.244      8.486     3.857       3.858     7.715         S0
fication aDd Furnishing
2. Service Buildlngs          0.845       0.845     1.690    0.768        0.768     1.536         50
3. Service Boat Jettias       0.222       0.333     0.555    0.202        0.303     0.505         60
Subtotal              5.309      5.422    10.731    4.827        4.929      9.756         51
B.  Land Acquisition              4.440           -     4.440    4.036            -      4.036
C. Equipment
1. Mobile Cxane (1)           0.088      0.792      0.880    0.080        0.720     0.800         90
2. FLTs, 36 t (2)             0.055       0.495     0.550    0.050        0.450     0.500         90
3. FLT,  3 t (6)              0.020      0.079      0.099    0.018        0.072     0.090         80
4. FLTs. 1.5 t (8)            0.031       0.057     0.088    0.028        0.052     0.080         65
5. Tractoxa (4)               0.044       0.176     0.220    0.040        0.160     0.200         S0
6. Chassis (12)               0.066      0.066      0.132    0.060        0.060     0.120         80
7. Spaxea                     0.033      0.099      0.132    0.030        0.090     0.120         75
S. Workshop Equipment         0.026      0.106      0.132    0.024        0.096     0.120         80
Subtotal              0.363      1.870      2.233    0.330       1.700      2.030         84
D. Constructlon Management        0.473       0.310     0.783    0.430        0.282      0.712        40
E.  Phylical Contingencies        0.579       0.573     1.152     0.526       0.521      1.047
F.  Prlce Contingencies           1.664       1.715     3.379     1.513       1.559      3.072
C.  Total Coats                  12.828       9.890    22.718   11.662        8.991    20.653         44
May 1985



ANNEX 7
Page 5
- 73 _
Foreign
Excbanae
Local    Foreign      Total   Local    Forelgn       Total    Proportlon
IC=                   Cost       Cost        Cost    Cost       Cost        Cost         2
-      (Rp. b        -lllon)  -        US$ million)-==
V.  PONTIANK
A. Civil Works
1. Slte Preparation, Modi-   1.281       1.282      2.563    1.165      1.165       2.330        50
ficatlon and Furnishing
2. Qu4y Stredgthenin8g ad    1.805       2.708      4.513    1.641      2.462       4.103        60
Construction
3. Servlce Buildings          2.179      2.179      4.358    1.981      1.981       3.962        50
4. Servlce Boat Jetty         0.183      0.273      0.456    0.166      0.248       0.414        60
Subtotal              5.448     6.442      11.890    4.953      5.856     10.809         54
B.  Land Acquisition              0.314          -      0.314    0.285           -      0.285
C.  Equipment
1. Mobile Crane (1)           0.088     0.792       0.880    0.080      0.720       0.800        90
2. FLT., 3 t (2)              0.007     0.026       0.033    0.006      0.024       0.030        80
3. FLTu, 5 t (2)              0.007      0.059      0.066    0.006      0.054       0.060         90
4. Tractors (2)               0.022      0.088      0.110    0.020      0.080       0.100         80
5. Chassis  (4)               0.022     0.022       0.044    0.020      0.020       0.040        50
6. Spores                     0.028     0.083       0.111    0.025      0.075       0.100         75
7. Workshop Equipment         0.018     0.070       0.088    0.016      0.064       0.080        80
Subtotal              0.192     1.140       1.332    0.173      1.037       1.210        86
D.  Contruction Management        0.504      0.319      0.823    0.458       0.290      0.748         39
E.  Physidcal ContlngencLes       0.595      0.677      1.272    0.541       0.61S      1.156
F.  Price Contingencies           1.667      1.788      3.455    1.515       1.625      3.140
G.  Total Costs                   8.720    10.336      19.086    7.925       9.423     17.348         54
May 1985



ANNEX 7
Pag. 6
- 74 -
Foreign
Exchange
Local    Foxelg     Total    Local    Foreign       Total   PFOpoitloD
Item                  Cost      Cost        CoSt      Cost      Cost       Cost         Z
-     (I- ;  bllion)-(p$  mll------        =lion)------
VI. TECHNICAL AS9ISTANCZ
A. PERUIPEL II
1. Coxpzate Nanagmuent       0.270      0.298      0.568    0.245      0.271     0.516         53
2. Port Operations           0.332      0.315      0.647    0.302      0.286     0.588         49
4. Equipmnt Management       0.200      0.205      0.405    0.182      0.186     0.368         50
Subtotal             0.802      0.818      1.620    0.729      0.743      1.472        50
B.  DC of Sea CoimnicatlonC
1. Sector Nonitotiag and     0.343      0.471      0.814    0.312      0.428      0.740        58
Data Nanagement
2. Seaboxne Trade Coortdina-  0.185     0.200      0.385    0.168      0.182      0.350        52
tIon and Doc en t
FacUltation
3. Cargo Unitization         0.235      0.251      0.486    0.214      0.228      0.442        52
Subtotal             0.763      0.922      1.685    0.694      0.838      1.532        55
C. Miniatry of Comualcations
1. Administratloo of State   0.219      0.248      0.467    0.199      0.225      0.424        53
TraDoport Corpoxatlous
2. Pr.paratloO of River      0.407      0.486      0.893    0.370      0.442      0.812        54
Transport Development
Schemes
3. Prsparatlon of Land       0.613      0.769      1.382    0.557      0.699      1.256        54
Traport Improvemet
Program
4. Pr-paration of SPN        0.256      0.333      0.589    0.233       0.303     0.536        56
Subtotal             1.495      1.836      3.331    1.358       1.670     3.028        53
D.  Physical Contingence.e       0.306       0.358     0.664    0.278       0.325     0.603
E. Price Contingencls           0.816       0.958     1.774    0.742       0.871     1.613
F.  Total Costs                  4.182       4.892     9.074    3.801       4.447     8.248        54
may 1985



ANhN 6
-75-                                         7
Exchange
Local   Foreign     Total   Local   For-lp        Total   Proportlon
I__                  Cost      Cost       Cost    Cost       Cost       Cost         Z
,-(ip. billion) ---   -----(US$ million)  ---
VIZ. TRAININC
A. Pott Nanagemant             0.286    0.315       0.601'  0.260    0.286       0.546        52
S. Terminal Oparatoza          0.263     0.278      0.541   0.239    0.253       0.492        51
C. Frelght Foriardera          0.211     0.216      0.427   0.192     0.196      0.3U8        51
D.   ey PCRLHPEL and Pott        -       0.132      0.132       -    0.120       0.120       100
staff overa a  inform-
tlon excuralona
E. Port staff overaeaa           -       0.297      0.297       -    0.270       0.270       100
secondmnt
Subtotal            0.760     1.238      1.998   0.691     1.125      1.816        62
F. Physical Contlngn rel      0.076    0.124       0.200   0.069    0.113       0.182
C. PrieA Contingiel-s         0.242     0.341      0.583   0.220    0.310       0.530
R. Total Costs                 1.078     1.703      2.781   0.980      1.548     2.528        61
may 1985



ANNEX 8
Page 1
-76 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Port Efficiency Indicators
1.        The data required to compute Port Efficiency Indicators oD a
regular basis is already available ln many Indonesian ports. Any addi-
tional data should be as simple as possible and easily assimilable into
the port's operating and reporting system. Typical essential data are:
(a) For each ship serviced in a port:
(1) date and time of arrlval in the port;
(1i)  name, dead weight tonnage, length and draft of a*-
riving ships;
(Wii) date and time of arrival at berth and identiflcatloo
of berth assigned;
(iv)  date and time of departure from berth;
(v) periods fox which ship is idle at berth and reasons
therefor;
(vi) tonnage and bulk commodity/tonnage and number of con-
tainers (20 ft, 40 ft, and TEU) discharged ot loaded;
and
(vii) number of gangs ard gang sizes employed on each shift.
(b)  For each transit shed and storage atea:
(i)  tons of cargo/TEU of container cleared within free
period;
(1i)  tons of cargo remaining uncleared for more than 2, 4
and 8 weeks;
(iii) TEUs of full containers remaining uncleared for more
than 2, 4 and 8 weeks; and
(iv)  TEUs of empty containers remaining uncleared for more
than 2, 4 and 8 weeks.
(c)  For each item of cargo-handling equipment employed:
(i) type, number, and hours requested; and
(ii) type, number and hours avallable.
2 *       From the above data, indicators will be derived each somester and
compared with established targets. Details are given overleaf.



Ilb
AM 8
-77 -
Indlcator             Expl.aaclon                                       1983                     1990
~-Da ---- Bas -----      ----Taset-------
Gnoeral   Contaelors    General   Contaleaos
ca-goa                   cargo
(a)  Throughput per   Total tonnag*/TEU hoadled,    Tanjung Pritok    240            240           350        300
Ship per Shlft   divtded by number of shifto   Teluk Deyur          150        n.a.J1         300        120
(tons/7TU)       vorkd.                          Panjang            220        n"..          300         120
Palembang         240        n.*.           300        120
Pontlanak         120        n.a.           300        120
(b)  Labor Produc-    Total tons/TZU handled          Tanjsmg Prlok       11          15            1J          25
tivity (tons/    dlvlded by total Sao$ tlm    Taluk Dayur            5        n.a.            13.5       10
TnU per nmt       (including overtute) l1os    Panjang               10        o.c.13.5                   10
Cang Dout)        stoppage not attributed to   Palem_bang             8        n               13.5        10
the gang (*.g. weather.       Pontlanak             5        n.-.            13.5       10
cargo/equlpmwet not avall-
able ete.)
cc) Equip ant          Total toos/TCU handled         Tanjung Prlok       26          15            30          25
Productlvity     dlvided by shift + ovettime  Taluk Dayur            14        na.m            25         10
(tone/TEU per    hour. leun stappages not       Panjang              20        n..             25         10
hour)             attributed to the equipment  Pale_bang             17        n..             25          10
or its operators (e.g.        Pontlanak            i8        n.a.            25          10
weather, cargo not
available, etc.)
(d) Avrage Dwell    Ton/ThU/days In storago           Tanjung Pilok       11          26             5           6.5
Tiw (days)       dIvIded by total tons/ThUs   Teluk Dayur            a        *.a.             6           a
stored.                       Panjang              16        r.a.             6           8
Pal_mbeng                     n.a.             6           a
Pontlnak                     n.a.             6           8
(a)  zqulpmnt          Equipment hours supplied       Tanjung Priok       322         9S2           852         952
availability     dlvided by equipmnt hours   Teluk Bayur            572        n.a.            85S        952
(2 age)           raquested.                    Panjang             202        n.a.            852        9SS
Palembang           802      nV..             85         9S2
Pontianak           611       n.-.            8SS         952
tf)  Average ship      Total tJim  bptwenn atrival   Tanjung Puiok         7          2              5           2
walting tiw       and berthitng of all ship.    Teluk Iayut          55        n.a.             S           5
(hours)          divided by number of ships    Panjang              22         n.a.            20          12
berthed.                      Palabsng             So        n.&.             5           5
Pontionak          141        ".a.            20          12
(S)  Average           Total time (hours) at berth  Tanjung Prlok         70         32             30         1i
Service Tliw      (including berthing and un-  Toluk Iayur          81          72             45          24
(hours)           btrthlng time) of all ships  Panjang              gO          48             45          24
divided by nmber of ahips.  Palembang             85          60             45          24
Pontianak           SI        n.c.            45          24
Cb)  Derth             Average service time (layo)  Tanjung Prlok         532         352 (UTC      8O0         302
Occupancy         zultipllca by nunbwr of       Teluk Dayur          90S       o.a.            502         5O2
(I age)           ship. divided by number of  Panjang                572       n.o.            sOx         SO0
berths tries the operating   Palembang             752       n-a.            802         502
days.                          Fontianak           721       n... co0                    50S
I  a.m. - not applicable
-my 1985



ANNEX 9
Page l
_ 78 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes to the Financial Projections
Income Statement
1.       The analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Detailed analysis of traffic volume and composition until the early
1990s. For Tanjung Priok the consultants' low traffic forecast was used
Detailed analysis of operating costs to handle the projected traffic, and
including productivity improvements resulting from che project and
affecting cost of labor, fuel and spares. Depreciation is calculated on
a straight line basis and reflecting the mix of assets in use. For
tariffs, the 1983 tariff structure was used, as modified by the recent
1985 adjustments.
(b) The Bank loan passed on to PERUMPEL II carries an interest rate of 10%
till the early 1990s, and a committment fee of 0.75%. The Government
will be responsible for the foreign exchange risk.
(c) Cost increases due to inflation of 7.25 percent annually from 1985
onward. This is in line with the Bank's projections of 8% inflation over
the 1980s, and PERUMPEL II management's emphasis on tight cost control.
(d)  Non operating items include .nterest income and expenses on cash (12%
interest rate for cash operational) and overdrafts (15% interest rate)
and miscellaneous items particular to the specific ports. No attempt was
made to forecast these items in detail. The suplus-cash account was
treated as non-interest-earning to ensure realistic projections.
2.      In the analysis of the individual project ports, to meet the annual cash
needs (Table in para 6.08), it was assumed that the cash needs would be covered
by interest free funds, i.e. government equity and intra-corporate transfers at
zero interest (if an interest rate of 15% were applied to the corporate
transfers, Teluk Bayur for example, would not only need Rp 55 billion between
1985 and 1992, but about Rp 75 billion).
3.      For the analysis of the consolidated Public Port Corporation II, two
projections were prepared: First, one that consolidates the individual ports'
projections using above assumptions, and adding headquarters's contributions.
Second, one that calculates the required operating revenues to achieve the agreed
working ratio, leaving everything else as in the first. This projection is shown
in the following tables, and indicates that the agreed working ratio is adequate
in the present policy environment. (Working ratios for the first projection would
drop to about 70% in the early 1990s, resulting in a somewhat more favourable
income and cash flow situation. This projection, as well as a similar one for
Tanjung Priok is included in the project file).
Balance Sheet
4.      When changing the organization charter to that of a public port



ANNEX 9
Page 2
- 79 -
corporation, the starting balance sheets were set up new. The major principles
for the restatement were:
(a) all direct government aid, from the national budget or other sources,
including foreign loans, for projects completed by April 30, 1983, were
converted into equity;
(b) accounts were reclassified, and doubtful accounts may be written off
immediately, or over several years, depending on the nature of the
individual account, and the approval of MOF;
(c) physical assets owned by MOC were transferred to the port corporation,
other physical assets were transferred to the newly created dredging
corporation;
(d) the account structure of current assets and liabilities was simplified by
balancing some payables and receivables and consolidating other accounts;
and
Ce) responsibility for staff pensions was transferred from the government's
pension scheme to the PERUMPELs. GOI has decided to establish one
pension fund for all four public port corporations, however the regula-
tions for the management of the pension fund have not yet been finalized.
The closing December 31, 1982 and April 30, 1983 balance sheets under the
previous organizational framework, the liquidation balance sheet and the opening
balance sheet of May 1, 1983 for the new organization and the ending 1983 balance
sheets, together with the report of the Committee of Liquidation are in the
project file.
5.      The projected balance sheets for the project ports are based on the 1983
actual balance sheets. For PERUMPEL II's consolidated operations, a balance
sheet was constructed using the 1983 balance sheet and adjusting it for the
separation of the pension fund, and netting out prepaid taxes with taxes
payable. The revaluation of assets in 1986 is assumed to double the values of
assets in use at that time. Practical levels of working capital have been
determined as follows:
(a) cash and deposits needed for operations, about 1 1/2 months
of working expenses and debt service requirements;
(b) receivables of about 1 1/2 months of operating revenues.
Old receivables will be collected during 1985;
(c)  stores and spares about 1 1/2 month of working expenses;
'd) loans and advances are expected to grow about 5% annually;
(e) accounts payable, about 2 months of working expenses; and
(f) taxes and contribution to the DPS are paid within a year.
May 1985



ANNEX 9
Page 3
- 80 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERUNPEL  II - Actual  and Projected  Income Statements  1983-92
t*PERIOIH        0    1           2       3       4        5       6       7        9       
t   DATE :   12-3   12-94   12-95   12-96   12-87   12-29   12-5    12-9.0         12- 92 --
Renuired Operatinr  Revenues        59424   5.347   52075   56202   ?1305   91476   926   104140  115491  120029
Morking Expenses                     6543   4257    452n9   50949   57044   65181   71295   83312   92393  102471
Depreciation                        looo1     53?    5591    5741   11596   14059   16914   19540   19537   20038
CET OPERATING SURPLUS             118B1   11530    1275    -4B8    2665    2238    1660    2299    356.   559?
PRE TAX INCE                      13581   12-59    1703   -1811   -1970   -         -7517   -6299. -173   .7
ET INCOME                          7470    6798     936   -1811   -1?70   -5512   -7517   -689, 9 -1,273  -19113
Vorkins Ratio                       62.55   71.74   86.92   90.65   90.0 00   800      .0    80.00 . 00      80" .00
Operatirg Ratio                     79.66   80.5.7  97.55  100    96.2    97.2l5  92.21   97.80   96.9.2   9.61
CASH OPERATING INME                 21891   16769    6866    5253   11261   16205   19574   2082    2309   25618
CASH INOME                          23581   1759.9   72 94   390 .0   626    9546    9396   11641   11661   18095
Return cn Net F.A.O.                 5.73   5.21    1.08       .26    1.38    1.06      .83    1.02    1.11    2.03
TANJUN% PRIOK - Actual and Projected  Income Statements 1983-92
sPERlOD:         0        1       2       3       4        5       6       7                I 9
t   DATE     12-83   12-84   12-85   128&   12-81? 12'-        12-99  .42_,A.   t.-.1a  _-07
Recuired Oner3tin  PRevenues        44692.  45033  39.256   5105?   5737    64371   71393   7191    0250   9.7467
Workinr Epenses                    24996   29993   31362   35740   40165   45060   49975   55433   61495   69227
Depeceition                          775     4496    4564    4604    929   1.0297   11617   11959   119S5    1195
E  OPEMATING SURPL"0              11943   10554    3329   1071'   '0*21    WV)    990   11.98   14495   17331
PRE TAX INCME                     13912   12760    3588   10121    5781    567I   619        8452   11374   1465
C  INTME                           7652    7A19    174    5556    3179    312    3405    4648    S256    8060
Working Ptio                        55.93    6.6,0  79.89   70.00   70.0.0  70.00   70.0 ,00   70.00      A   7'0.0.0
O,eratunt Ratio                     73.28   76.56   91.52   79.02   86.19   OC.98   86.27   24.98   8.50 92.17
CASH MPERATING 1*EME                1969.6  15040    70093   C157   j17   19311   2418   2375    25    29240
ASH INME                            21665   17245    815_2  14725 5 15073   15974   17802   20311   231  21 9515
Retun m  Net F.A.O.                  7.80    7.23    2.31    5.12    3.37    3.67    3.93    4.60    5.66   6.3



ANNE 9
Page 4
- 81 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Projected  Income Statements 1983 -  1992
TELUK BAYUR
S PERIOD :       0        '       2       3        4       5               7        a       0
S   DATE :   12-83   12-84   12-85   12-86   12-87   12-88   12-89   C2-A0  1'-91   1 2-2
Required Operating Revenues          1739    2219    1845    2063    2166    3003    3710    4913    5403    5945
Working Expenses                     1683    1938    2059      6'b6   2516    2793    3116    3685    4053    4459
Depreciation                          443     250      245     240     473    1Q09    1658    2076    3788    2380
MET WtERATING SURPLUS              -387      31    -459    -443    -522    -7.9   -1065    -848   -1037    -8M9
PRE TAX INCOME                     -372      64   -557   -1077   -2136   -3384   -1197  -4038   -4036   -36"'
NET INCOME                         -372      35   -557   -107?   -2136   -3384   -418?   -403B   -1036   -3i."
Working Ratio                       96.79   87.34  111.61  109.84  10 200   93.00   84.00   75.00   75.00   75.00
Operating Ratio                    122.25  .99.61  124.89  121.47  121.19  12.60  128.69  117.26  119.19  115.10
CASH OPERATING INCOME                  56     281    -214    -203      -49     210      594    122     1351    1486
CAH INCE                               71     314   -312    -E3?   -1663   -2374   -2529   -1962   -1648   -1278
Return on Met F.A.O.                -6.13     .60   -7.53   -5.33   -2.55  -1.9q   -1.8O   -1.11   -1.34   -l.16
PANJANG
PERIOD :        0        1       2                4                       7        8       a
t   DATE :  12-83   12-84   12-85   12-86   12-87   12-88   12-99  12-90   12-91   12-92
Reouired O-eratins Revenues          1 746    2240    1854    1856    2084    2379    2721    3100   351?    38.m0
Working Exmenses                     11^6    1445    1530    165    1855    204       2308    '55    281 4    3103
Depreciation                          634     22       8       22      561     706      921_   14?7   117    1197
NET OPERATING SURPLUS              -48      513      43   -101    -334   -373    -448    -509    -493    -421
D5E TAX INCO)E 187                          556      22    -263    -794   -1167   -1474   -1586   -1503  -1318
NET INCOME                          103     306      12   -263    -784   -1167   -1474   -1586   -1503   -1348
Working Ratic                       66.44   64. 52   8.49   90.26    9.00.  86.00   83.00   80.00   8"^0.00 0.00
Operating Ratio                    102.l75   77.10   97.69  105.45  116.04  115.68  116A115.96  111'.02  110.8
CASH OPERATING INCOME                 586     79    5          181     2'2    73        473     6      70.3    776
CASH INCME                            821     837     304       18    -220    -461    -554    -4390   -306    -151
Return on Net F.A.D.                 1.94    5.60    1.07   -1.05   -2.67   -2.01   -1.73   -1.69   -1.6L   -1.39
May 1985



ANNE 9
Page 5
-82-
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Projected Income Statements 1983 - 1992
PALEMBANG
t PERIOD:        0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9
$   DATE :  12-83   12-84   12-85   12-86 12-!? 12-82   12-8    122-90   120- 102O2
Reauired Operating Revenues         4447    3014    3021    3070    3667    5595    160   100^0   IA.O   11; 4
Uorking Expenses                    2850    3055    3707    4024    434    5931       8      e04    8775    5
Depreciation                         560     441     448      43    E86    12.2   1462    173z    179    1-MA
MET OPERATIN6 SURPLUS             103?     419  -1134  -13.6   -1582  -1537   -890         274      400     S94
PRE TAX INCE                       852     515  -1123   -1496  -1939          2209   -1176    -146    -452    -172
NET INCOME                         469     223   -1123  -149  -103  -220    -1766    -646   -452    -172
Marking Ratio                      64.0.   78.06  122.70  131.06  119.0.  106.00   93.0A 8A0.00   80.00   20.00
Operatink Ratio                    76.69   8,.32  137.52  1A5.4  14l3.15  127.42  110,91   97.27   OL.   95.01
CASH UPETINS INCIME                 1597     959    -636    -953    -697    -33      57P.    20'12   219     2389
CASH INCOME                         1412    954    -675  -1053  -1054   -1m08   -304    109 I        XQ42    1622
R.eturn on Net F.A.D.               7.42    4.68  -18.94  -17.33  -11.2?   -7.40   -3.11    1.49    2 Ob    3.07
PONTIANAK
PRIOD :          0       1       2       _       4       5       6       7       B
I   DATE :  12-3   12-84   12-85   12-86   12-87   12-E8   12-89   12-90   12-91   12-92"
Renuired Operating Revernes          800     492,    SU      604     751    !20     2475    4335   4812    5342
Marking Expenses                     854     899     841     914    902    115   2120    3252   3609    4007
Depreciation                                82      80      80     159.     7     830    103   111^    1111
NET OPERATING SURPLUS             -153    -288   -334    -2.90    -30.9  -527    -176       45    8.9       21
PRE TAX INCOME                     -20    -247    -342    -428    -71   -1214   -1406    -933    -225    -617
NET INCME                          -20    -247    -342    -429    -713   -1244  -1406    -33    -825    -617
Moa*ing Ratio                     106.80  129.7?  143.45  134 7-  120.00   .$4   95.68  7?5.0   75.00   75.00
Dperatinr PRtio                   119.1?  141.57  157.02  147.96  141.18  143.85  119.21   .,97   98.15   95.85
CASH OPERATINS ICOHE                 -54    -206   -255    -210    -150        6    354    101    1203    13'3
AS 71COME                             79    -165    -262    -349   -554    -711    -5.7       106    29.      107
Return on Net F.A.0.               -1.38  -17.11  -22.17  -13.75   -4.51   -3.91   -2_.54     .I'   1.7A
May 1985



ANNE 9
-83-                                       ~~~~~~~~Page 6
-83  -ag -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERUMPEL II - Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1984-92
: PERIOD:         1                3       4        5       6        7                        10
S   DATE:   12-84   12-85   12-86   12-87   1'-8   12-89   12-90   12.-91   12-c    12-03
SOCES OF FUNDS:
Internal Sources
ICOM!E be? Tar S LTD Interest    1235       2157      486    3?79    3521    3122    3941    5116    7610    9931
+ Decmiation ?Amortization         52'39    551    5741   11596   14058   16914   19540   1953?   20038   20539
- Reserve Funds                   -1614    -'          0        0       0        0       0        0       C Q    -145
TOTAL INTERNALLY SENERATED       15994     55    6227   15375   175?7   20036   22480   21052   27S48   30324
Lore-term Loar,
Proiect Ports (local)                  0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
ProJect Ports (foreign)                0     950   30100   44530   26460    8290          0        0       0        0
TOTAL LONG-TERN LOANS                0     850   30100   41530   26460    8290          0        0       C        0
Goverrment Funds
Overall Develoent Fund                 0       0        0       a        0        0       0        0       0        0
ProJect Ports Eauitt                   0     8950   29670   21670   16490  1'1310       100        0       0        0
TOTAL 60'O1IE!T FUNDS                0     950   29670   24670   16490   11310        100        0       0        0
Dther Sources                            0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Overdraft                                0       0        0        0       0       0       0        0       0        0
TOTAL CASH AVAILABLE          15984    925   6597  084575   60528   396.6   2250   24952   2?7648   30324
USES OF FINDS:
Capital Investents
Miscellaneous Investsents           5000    3000    2000    2000    20o00    2000    50       100    10000   1001
Project Ports (local)                  0     85    28670   24200   15450    850          50        0       0        0
Project Ports (foreign"                0     850   31100   45000   2?500   10950         50        0       0        A
TOTAL IN'VESTMENTS                5000    4700   61770   71200   44950   21600    5100   10000 IO 1        00  10
Debt Service
interest                               0     454    22?7    574?    9032   10640   10839   102:8        9553    8818
Repagment's                            0       0        0       0        0        0    3675    7349    7348    ?IAO
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   0     454    2297    5749    9032   10640   14511   17636   16901   16166
Othr
Repas ent  f Overdraft                 0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Change in Working Capital          -3686   -4280   -200    2770    2330    2340    2600    2520    2270    2410
barge in Ot.her Assets                 0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0 Q
Ta::es                              5320    5562      766       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Overall Development Fund           12?68    3552      48.9      0        0       0        0       0        0        0
TOTAL CASH REGIUIRED          19602    9988   62523   79?71    56312   31580   22214   30156   291?1   28576
CMange in Surplus Cash               -3612il 7         3 74    4P5      1216    5056      36   -5204   -1W         1717
Surplus Cashl - Begin of Year        16913 !3295   125W3    6007?  20863   250^79   30135   30501   25327   n77A
- End of Year          13.29    12533   16007  2M087   25078   30135   30501   25297   2377M         5
DEBT SERVICE COVEPRASE                _-               2.71    2.67    5.,       D 1.82    1.55    1.1    1 .64    1.2
May 1985



ANNEX 9
Page 7
- 84 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERUMPEL II - Actual and Projected  Balance  Sheets, 1983-92
rtpuaO  t 05/10/95    I PERIOD:         0       1        2       3       4        5       6       7       8        .
t 07:52:24    t   DATE:   1 2-3   121-8    12-05   12-96    2-97   !4i9   ig-8a   12-90   l2-91   12-92
AS SET. 8
Current Assets
Surplus Cash                      16913   1329C   1253   16007   20S&3   25079   30135   30501   2527   2377
Cash Operational                   5000    5320    5710    6660    7950    1280   10620   12230   1750  '14920
Accounts Recei-able               20934   15420   10510    70Q0   9910   10180   11610   13020   14440   16010
Loans and    ances and i..sc.      7200    7920    8710    9150    9610   10090   10590   120   11680   12260
Stores and Spares                  1866    5z20    5650    6370    7130    8150       2 9.0  10410   11550   12910
TOTAL CUREIT ASSETS'            35000   33.090   30580   29210   33500   37700   42110   4670   51420   56000
Fixed Assets
Gross Non-Depreciable             18696   18696   18696   18696   10696   18696   1869'  19696   19696   169
Gross Depreciable                119339  124428  127828  271053  336092  412748  453523  473623  483673  493673
SUBTOTAL                      138035  143124  146524  2w99749  354794  431444  472219  42319  52369  512369
Less Accus Depreciation          7599   12938   18419   42569   54158   68216   95130  103670  123207  143245
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OETION   130436  130296  128105  247180  300636  363228   ?7089  398649  9162 I         69124
'ork in Praoress                   10899    1000    2300   59770   65925   34225   15050       50       0        0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS             131525  131286  130405  306950  366561  397453  402139  396n9  379162  369124
Other Assets                           27      "        17       7       0       0        0       0       0        0
TOTAL ASSETS                  183465  17858B  17735   3521 7   420c.23  460231  4?4384  465990  455890   1898
LIABILTLIES and EWUTTY
Current Liabilities
Overdraft                             0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Current Portion ef LTD                0       0       0        0       0       0    3675    7348    7348    7348
Deposits                           2569    9000    9450   9n20   10420   10940   11490   12060   12660   13290
Accounts P3vable                   4865    7100    7530    9490    9510   10960   12390   13990   15400   17090
Ta::es Pavable                     5320    5562     766        0 0         0       0        0       0            0
O.erall Development Furd          12'968    3552    489        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Other                              4975    4975    49,75    47I    40~      407'z   495n 5           1W A7
MTOAL CURRERT LIABILITIES      36974 30199   2321    23.9    24 b5   24? 32520    49S3   46093
Other Liabilities
Lon-terD 3ebt- locsI                  0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Lon-tera Debt - foreign               0       0     850   30950   75420  101940  10655    .92'0   9185   84511
Other Liab.lities                  1380    13EO    1390    1390    1390    1390    1320    1390    1380    1390
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES         "130    1390    2230   3230   76860 103320  10A7935  0l9S8?  93237   95C91
Revaluation Reserme and E3uit.
Revalvatim  Reserve                   0       0       0  10506  t10506  120506  1206  120506  120506  12050S
Gove-nment Eauit,i               145398  1453B9  145389  l145320  145308  145389  145389  145399  145399  14539S
Project Euxit,s                       0       0     950   30C520   5519    7180  92990   93090   83090   23090.
Retained Earnings                     0    161i   1956        45   -1926   -743?  -14955  -21954  -26-2S  -28670
TOTAL EQUITY                   145388  147019  1480?4  296459  31915 330136  333929  327130  322259  320314
T.OTAL LIABILITIES A!1D EGUITY  193465   17959 177 3535  3521?4  420923  46Q0231  V1384  46598C0  455880  44892
RATIOS:
C!urrent                             1.41    1.5?    1.86    1.93    '.1B    2.34    2.1"    7.02    1.90    1.97
Debt 7 sf !ebt+Eou=tl       A.               0.        .57    9.45   19.!3   27.5.   24.92   24.57   23.54   22.29
May 1985



ANNAE 9
- 85 -                             Page 8
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERUMPEL II - Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds Under the Project
Rp. million        X
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal sources
Income before tax and LTD interest                34,780           11
+ Depreciation and amortization                   97,215           30
- Reserve funds                                   (1,837)          (1)
Total Internally Generated                   130,158           40
Bank loan                                          110,230           34
Government equity                                   83,090           26
TOTAL CASH AVAILABLE                         323,478          100
USES OF FUNDS
Capital Investments
Miscellaneous                                     31,000             9
Project (local)                                   77,870            24
Project (foreign)                                115,450            36
Total Investments                            224,320            69
Debt Service
Interest                                          49,300            15
Repayments                                        11,023             4
Total Debt Service                            60,323            19
Other
Change in working capital                          1,794'            1
Taxes paid                                        11,648             4
DPS contributions paid                            17,009             5
TOTAL CASH REQUIRED                          315,094            98
Increase in cash not required for operations         8,384             2
TOTAL CASH USED                              323,478           100
May 1985



ANNEX 10
Page 1
- 86 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sector and Pxoject Related Documents Available ir the Pxoject File
1. The Txansport Sector
1.1 IBRD: INDONESIA - Transpoxt Sector Survey, Octobex 1980.
1.2 MOC: Indooesian Transport, Communications, and Tourism in Brief;
November 1982.
1.3 BAPPENAS: TTanspoxt Development Plans and Development Budgets
under REPELITAs I-IV.
1.4 MOC/T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners (August 1982):
(a)  A critical Review of MOC's Formal Organization and Procedures,
including Recommendations for Improvement;
(b) Guidelines fox Transport Policy Formulatioos and Planning;
(c) Evaluation of Appropriate Roles fox Individual Land Transport
Modes;
(d) Evaluation of Subsidy, Pricing and Licensing Policies for Land
Transport Modes; and
(e)  Review of Studies of River Txansport Sexvices;
1.5 MOC/Halerow, Fox and Associates:
(a) Vehicle Weights and Dimensions Study;
(b) Road Usex Charges Study;
(c) Road Transport Industxy Study;
(d) Road and Txaffic Legislation Study, all Novembex 1982; and
(e)  Contract and Terms of Refexence for Phase I of the Land
Txansport Development Plan, April 1984.
2. The Maxitime Subsectox
2.1 DGSC/Netherlands Maxitime Institute: Integrated Sea Transport Study;
August 1982.
2.2  GOI/IBRD:  The Maritime Sectox Development Program - Concepts and
Plan of Action; March 1982.
2.3  DGSC/DHV Consultants:  Integrated Sea Communications Manpower
Development and Training Masterplan; Novembex 1983.
2.4  DGSC/Paxapat and Associates:  Sea Communications Sector Organization
and Management Study; January 1984.
2.5  DGSC/Parapat and Associates:  Outline of the Cxash Txaining Program
fox PERUMPEL Manageis; November 1984.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
- 87 -
2.6  University of Indonesia, Faculty of Law:  Inception Report fox
the Maritime Law Reform Pxoject;  September 1984.
2.7 M. Klautz, B. Schliephake., F. Wehxhahn: The Aspects of Inter-
island Trade Unitization in Indonesia; November 1984.
2.8 MOF: Action Plan and Timetable for Customs Procedures Improvement;
December 1984.
2.9  DGSC:  (a)  Port and Shipping Efficiency; Summary of Basic
Concepts, Policies and Stxategies.
Work Program, Action Plan and Timing.
(b)  Action Plan fox Port Operations Improvement.
(c)  Action Plan for Shipping Reorganization.
(d)  Basic Concepts for Shipping Monitoring.
(e)  Draft Basic Agreement for a National Intex-island
Liner Conference.
September 1984.
2.10 JICA:  Loug-Term Development Plan for Maritime Communications
System; March 1982.
2.11 DGSC: RecommendatioDs on Cooperation Among Shippers and
Shipowners; August 1984.
2.12 IMO:   Maritime Safety Training and Technical Assistance in
Indonesia; June 1984
3.  The Public Port Corporation II
3.1 Presidential Decree No. 15 of 1983 establishing PERUMPEL II, and
amending Government Regulation No. 5 of 1985.
3.2 Presidential Decree No. 11 of 1983 concerning Harbour Development
and Operations.
3.3 Minister of Communications Ini.truction No. KM 194/OT 002 of 1983
concerning the Organization and Administrations of PERUMPEL II.
3.4 Presidential Instruction No. 4 of 1985 concerning maritime and
trade policy reforms, and complementing MOC, MOF and MOT regula-
tions,    -ees end instructions.
3.5 Government Regulation No. 1 of 1969 concerning the Organization
and Working Procedures in Harbours and Navigation Areas (PP I).
3.6 Government Regulation No. 2 of 1969 concerning the Operation Ind
Exploitation of Sea Transport (PP II).
3.7 PERUMPEL II: Draft Corporate Plan; November 1984.
3.8 Minister of Communications Decision No. 351/AL 106 of 1982 concern-
ivg Ba't r Budgetting and Accounting.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
- 88 -
3.9 Draft Closing Balance Sheet for Maxitime District III, April 30,
1983;
3.10 Opening Balance Sheet fox PERUMPEL II, May 1, 1983.
4. The Project
4.1 Tanjung Priok:
(a) Peter Fraskel and Partners/PTC/Wiratman Associates: Mastexplan and
Feasibility Study, January 1984;
(b)  Peter Frankel and Partners/PTC/Wiratman Associates:  Port Optimiza-
tion Study, May 1984;
(c)  Peter Frankel and Paxtners/PTC/Wiratman Associates:  Detailed
Engineering Design, December 1984.
(d)  Peter Frankel and Partners/PTC/Wiratman Associates:  Container
Tariff Adjustment Study, May 1984; and
(e) Peter Frankel and Partnexs/PTC/Wiratman Associates:  Port Land Rent
Study, May 1984.
(f) PERUPMEL II/PTC: Tanjung Priok Port Operations Improvement Action
Program, March 1985.
4.2  Teluk Bayur:
(a) Lavalin International/Geodata Berlian Centre: Masterplan Study,
January 1984; and
(b)  Lavalin International/Geodata Berlian Centre:  Detailed Engineering
Design, August 1984.
4.3  Panjang:
(a)  Lavalin International/Geodata Berlian Centre:  Masterplan Study,
Januaxy 1984; and
(b)  Lavalin International/Geodata Berlian Centre:  Detailed Engineering
Design, August 1984.
4.4  Palembang
(a) Haskoning/Delta Tama Waja: Masterplan and Feasibility Study,
Januaxy 1984; and
(b)  Haskoning/Delta Tama Waja:  D-tailed Engineering Design, June 1984.
4.5  Pontianak
(a)  Haskoni-g/Delta Tama Waja: Masterplan and Feasibility Study,
Januaxy 1984; and
(b) Easkoning/Delta Tama Waja:  Port Optimization Study, November 1984.
(c)  Haskoning/Delta Tama Waja:  Detailed Engineering Design, March 1985.
4.6  DGSC:  Standard Design Criteria for Ports in Indonesia, Januaxy 1984.
4.7 PERUMPEL II: Action Plan and Timetable for Land Clearance and
Acquisition, March 1985.



7b
ANNEX 10
Page 4
- 89 -
4.8 MOC/DGSC: Needs Assessment fox Technical Assistance under the National
Poxts Development Project, May 1984.
4.9 PERUMPEL II: Needs Assessm-ent for Construction Management, May 1984
4.10 MOC/DGSC/PERUMPEL II:
(a)  Terms of Reference (TOR) for Technical Assistance in Corporate
Management of Financial Planning;
(b)  TOR for Technical Assistance in Port Operation. Improvement
Schemes;
(c)  TOR for Technical Assistance in Equipment Management;
(d)  TOR for Technical Assistance in Maxitime Sector Monitoxlng;
(e)  TOR fox Technical Assistance In Seaborne Trade Management;
(f)  TOR fox Advisory Services in Caxgo Unitization;
(g)  TOR fox Technical AssistaDce in the Administration of State
Transport Enterprises;
(h)  TOR for the River Transport Development Study;
(i)  TOR for Preparation of the Land Transport Improvement Program.
4.11 PERUMPEL II: Financial Projections, November 1984 and March 1985.
4.12 Details of Project EcoDomic Evaluation.
4.13 Details of Project Financial Analysis.
May 1985



25-
-90-                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table I
INDNSIA
-. ..          000 ton             .. .............(Peatag)                        - -. .
metthara Signaturea - Narthar. Smattra      5,537    3S."7        517        87       1,245      100.0    65.8       10.4      1.5      22.3
Northers Sumters - vast mmagtez               713        119        -         -         354      100.0    16.7          -        -      5.5
Norther. S_eters - Central sumater          1*441        23         -         -       1.413      100.0      1.9                  -      95.1
No tuws  _ atrag - bouthert satela            495         -         -         -         495      100.0        -         -        -     100.0
east seters  -  east Sa_ ter.                  4         7)5      17          -          of      100.0     75.0      17.3        -       5.
Meat umaterg - CeetraL Monsters               331        101        -         -         230      100.O    30.5          -        -      9.s
Neat It=atera - Southe4n Imge..             1.072          2        -         -       1,070      100.0      0.2         -        -      99.n
Central Satrera - Cantal Simatea            4,74"       1"0         -       l19       4,405      100.0      4.0         -      2.3      93.
Central smatera - Seetbhe' Senators           772        17         -         -         735      100.0      2.2         -        -      97.5
Southw. Saunters - S-uthet. Swatea t        1 42 -      97        44                    2U       100.0    55.2      25.9        -       17.9
Total _uintara                        tL           7      T wINWS    W1m1                      N      3S        t        1- FT  M  W7
Met Java - Mat Java                           S.     53,3532     e..          -          14      i00.0        -         -        -         -
Meat Jv - Cantal Javw                         ..      4.15      a..           -           -      100.0        -         -        -         -
Ma t Joav- Last Java                        a...      lUI        a.m.         -         102      10.0         -         -        -         -
Cental Java - Central Jaw                   :.A.     27J053      E...         -           -      100.0        -        -         -         -
Central Java - Kat Java                     u..       3.747     s.c.          *         137      100.0        -         -        -         -
Hgat Java - cast Jewa                       D..      30 020     *.-.          -       2 401      100.0        -        -        -          -
Total Jav                   115                1           21I        -N .TWi                         WT ;t                :         T-
Meat Kallilta  - Vast K1aten 3t                          114        -         -         271      100.0    29.5          -        -      70.4
Vast Kallamta  - Ceattul Ksalitaaa            126          -        -         -         125      100.0        -         -        -     10D.0
C-ntral Kaltaatm, - Ceatral Kinataa           542         -         -       500          42      100.0        -         -    9.5        4.5
South        *_atm - South Lallelatan       1.U7         "1         -       731          50      100.0    45.4          -    50.2        3.4
Cast  AlLaa  -  otb KAlI ta                    9         23         -         -          70      100.0    25.5         -        -       71.4
M-t   lmtantao - Rast Kalt1 519                          107        -         -       1 212      100.0      5.1        -        -      91.9
Total Mal.mantas                         1!        U .551                         A. 7 ri   IU         1Nx51                        3
meat Java - mall                               31         l         -         -          13      100.0     M.1          -       -      41.9
aat Java -  1l                              1 53        498         -         -       1055       100.0    31.9                          G -  .1
Total 3.11T~                                       lITS         -        -       1oU71      TWN       3          -         -      171
North Sl_"eat - North leimal                1.432        74         -         -                  100.0     53.4        -   '           45.
Jerth   loal - Cattal sulasea                241          -        -         -         241      100.0        -        -        -      100.0
Eatth Samal - South    lol                    502          -        -                   52       100.0                                 l -  -  100.0
Noxth Solmmsi - Southaaat Sulaeal              43          -        -         -          43      100.0        -        -        -      100.0
Central ftLmad  - Central  easeal             120          -        -         -         120      100.0        -        -        -      100.0
Central Sulawesi, - South Sulaml              34                                        36       100.0        -        -        -      100.0
Centtral Sulal -  othat Sulamal                79                                        79      100.0        -        -        -      100.0
South  Suimena-South kml1_d                 2.425     1.917                             N o 509  100.0    79.0                  -      21.0
South Sulawsal  - touthbast Stla              352         -         -         -         352      100.0        -        -        -      100.0
Sout_eat Sulawe   - Southeast Sulawes          *                                                 100.0        -        -        -     100.0
Tota Stlmal                            357_51                            -       s                 .    T                  - r T
Total Istralsled                          154.7S5   130.572    3.50       1.54       19.150      100.0    64.3      2.3       1.0       12.4
n.a. - mot avallable
SouCe,  Soad data d We  fr DCIE-PC 0-D SrVey   r alU data ftre  PlEA. Ft               I  rin,e-A
Sve data  tfrm DGN-N0CI              pilot Serve, of  ti  ?Toi lal _F_
OlrectOrato omeerel of sa C      lcIstatated Leafaq or_* t Study
may 1955



Table 2
- 91 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESOURCE ALLOCATIONS FOR TRANSPORT UNDER REPELITAS I-III
Repelits I    Repelita II    Repelita III
--------------Pe cetag--          -
A.  Roads                                     75.0           77.7             66.5
B. Land Transport                              6.3            6.7              8.5
(Rallways, Freight and Passenger
Road Transport, and Ferries)
L.  Sea Transport                              9.8           10.4             13.2
(Ports and Shipping)
D. Civll Avlation                              8.9            5.2             11.8
(Airports and Alrcraft)
Total                                    100.0          100.0            100.0
E.  Sea Transport                              1.7            1.3              2.4
(X of Total Development Budget)
F. Transport                                  17             16               14
(2 of Total Development Budget)
Source: BAPPENAS
May 1985



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A.  REPELITA IV SECTORAL ALLOCATIONS                              B.  REPELITA IV MODAL ALLOCATIONS
Sector                Amount      Percentage                       Mode            Amount        Pexcentage
(Rp. billion)                                               (Rp. billion)
- Transport                 9,106            11.6                 -  Roads                4,220          46.3
- Telecom./Touxism            816             1.0
- Industry/Mining           8,488            10.8                 -  Land Transport       1,598          17.6
- Energy                    9,598            12.2
- Manpower and                                                    -  Sea  Transport       1,694          21.6
Transigration             4,559            5.8
- Regional Development      5,345            6.8                     Civil Aviation       1,324          14.5  e
- Education                11,554           14.7                                                                      4
- Health and Family                                                  Total                9,106         100.0
Planning                  3,537            4.s
- Housing and Watex
Supply                    2,987            3.8
- Agxicultuxe and
Irrigation                9,982           21.7                     Sea Transport
- General Public                                                    (t  of total
Services                  6,917            8.8                     development budget)
- Othex                     5,738            7.3
Total                    78,618          100.0
Source: BAPPENAS
May 1985



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL FLEET COMPOSITION AND GROWTH TRENDS
(No. of Snips)
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1986      1981      1882     1983
A.  Domestic Services
- Regular Linex Ships       262      305       320       316       343      373       342       361      415
- Lokal Ships               880      906    1,228    1,456    1,624    1,579    1,420    1,663    1,700
- Pioneer Ships               9       16        19        20        21       25        33        34       35          1
- Sail Boats              1,047    1,471    1,490    2,106    2,182    2,288    2,563    3,346    3,500 O
- Bulk Caxriexs             774    1,010    1,351    1,655    1,941    2,090    2,231    2,242    2,500              w
Subtotal            2,972    3,708    4,408    5,553    6,111    6,355    6,589    7,646    8,150
B.  Intetnational Sexvices
- Liner Ships                54        56       55        590 P 0 0-2        50        58        61       62
- Bulk Carriezs              41       44        53        63        97       89        89        96       96
Subtotal               95       100       108       122      149       139       147      157       158
Total Fleet         3,067    3,808    4,516    5,675    6,260    6,494    6,736    7,803    8,308
Source:  DGSC and Mission Estimate
May 1985



Table 5
- 94 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year        Cumulative Disbursements       Disbuxsement Profile,
and End of Semester         at End of Semestex        Poxt Projects (Bankwide)
(US$ million)        (X                (%)
1986
December 31, 1985              1.0             0.9               0
June 30, 1986                  4.5             4.0               4
1987
Decembex 31, 1986             10.0             9.0              10
June 30, 1987                 20.0            18.0              18
1988
Decembex 31, 1987             33.0            29.7              27
June 30, 1988                 46.0            41.4              38
1989
December 31, 1988             60.0            54.0              48
June 30, 1989                 72.0            64.9              58
1990
Decembex 31, 1989             83.0            74.8              67
June 30, 1990                 92.0            82.9              75
1991
December 31, 1990             97.0            87.4              81
June 30, 199.                102.0            91.2              87
1992
December 31, 1991            107.0            96.4              91
June 30, 1992                111.0           100.0              95
May 1985



Table 6
- 95 _
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
SEABORNE TRADE DEVELOPMENT
( 000 tons)
1977   1978   1979       1980    1981    1982    1983
A. Domestic Trade
- Regulaz Liner
Services      2,440    2,531   2,941    3,497    3,346   2,999    3,704
- Lokal Services  2,372   2,385   2,287    2,756   2,745    2,409    3,110
- Pioneer Services   63       53      68       96       97      98      115
- Sail Boats      1,357    1,500   1,645   1,885   2,178   2,069    2,219
- Industrial
Carriers     12,856   13,127   16,891   16,527   17,261   19,486   20,060
- Othex/l           554     421      495      775    - 483     736      723
Subtotal     19,372   20,017   24,327   25,536   26,160   27,797   29,931
B. Intexrational Trade
- Imports        13,925   13,349   14,509   19,008   18,631   23,468  26,363
- Exports       95,203  101,267   98,268  101,415   97,353   98,456  104,653
Subtotal    109,226  114,614  112,777  120,423  115,984  121,924  131,016
Total Seaborne
Trade     128,958  134,631  137,104  145,959 142,144  149,721  160,947
/1 Indonesian Ocean Liners and Foreign Carriers
Source: Biro Pusat Statistik
May 1985



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERUMPEL 11
Organizaton Chart
Board di
I IMof  I
k~fOgnc_          _    __  _ _
Bad d1
D,v              r , r
__jcmriim__rJ
Conhtr Uni                                I     I     I
l l l Diecbrotecdnw
iDirctoate d             Sub cktw                       u Dlteeuate              u  kfrt
dOFncll                  dP&chv*                        dP GLvm                       ewn
_  bele d  |~~~~~~         D_ eoW d1                 _b oktrwe Of              _b    or;to
d ebbao   CM Tedhn 4xt         }    Monce       l         - . .Wcd Doa - 696
S<ub Dirftoroe d         Su E Died cale d                 Su D 9st  rDie   l      S   kectkde d|
|TemWrd    . |akm       |Mocne techitnl"               |    ACdMcaWh               Ad |  huteph
IuObDectoote  I                                       IL tlb
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A d0  - 26*90|0 |1



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT ADMINISTRATION
OrganIzatlon Chart
|~a1 APrVaofcr |
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
smd    DM           d          Do|                              DMun           idOnd
ft F_       _                               _cOV._        _  
MD3              9.bD            urmf            Lb 1D
MC"  SubMoWm                       op"m~~~        %b D~
ubDM.on     1o Dk & Obsn                                       h DMM*"
&* DM ~    W4 h
&VW" ~  ~             9bn" OM     |I
PN$Wo                  Eq*fIoth -
M~~~~CcwEt EWW
&bCM~~~&CnD
rdA-t961



INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PORT ADMINISTRATIONS FOR TEWK BAYUR, PANIANG, PALEMBANG & PONTIANAK
Orgonizaflon Chad
PMI A*m*Wmiotc
I  t   I~~~~~~~~~~~~
Adhn*trfion
Polorew  Adn**kOve          Legci & pLA                             Rilrf& 
section d* soction d                    c
O~~~~MoncI  OMilon of ~  ~        ~        ~        ~        SibSctonsuisA
S_ k:e               Plloge              T                       .__               _._
S~b OMi~n       9ib                                       Su0DMmso
Wlore & Elect0lClty  pelcamot &EuretbTrinnk 
--    *                I L  I .UC'ln       ,b os               aRmPoAnkfaIo
1 9*-0 1 I               SuPbuOlonI    I                                 s I  I   ,     I n
Wal  Bx* - 26-I2



-~i                   if '[j'l
I   R  fi  g  g   i  g    g g  X  W l  g  g  i  X  B g g i W W i l $ g  g I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.
t 42  {g  Si   s      Si~~~~~~~~~~~~
hhl  2  I I 11lbl]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
LIi ~~~~~~~- 6=  -_ i



THAILAND                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
-                            ~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES-.                                 INOEI~
S~i~7,v    ~ :/b4A       SEA                                          ....NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT POJC..
-  '                         ~~~~~~~~~~NATI1ONALP11ORT.INFNATIWUCTURI 
-   *        L ~MALAYSIA
9                                                            4,  CSLWSPSJI~~~~~~~~~Tnum      4
PERUMPEL    a                                                           MALAYSIA    )4/-                                                                                                                       5
ZONE%                                  MA.NIa                                               34                           ..~'~'                      ana
* ~  ~     ~     P .                                                                      N aas., &               .c                                                                AtV~
IA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~            tvN               *2                tr2f7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~26                P-
4SI          'A         4
~ama LoafsX
LL ImaKU11Avn                              EUPL
*wlAUAPEjUMPELUMPEZONE
sumIn, #0                                                                  JA       PEA UMPELMFEL ZONEONE
* A~S ?IWAI
* -AA-"u   Af
tSAA*Mftlt                                                                            ERU  E.II-ON
naSTl                                                                                                                                                                   '                 
Amu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    o                     mu                                  
Km .mau sup  .I                                                                                                                                                                      :i.7Zt4i el E:
ro" IN"                                                                                                              ip    3p    mg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 
fo  d~~ M    ft   W~-=
27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



S                                r.  IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
aj|| i \ 0  V  . t INIA JA V A                                        E A                                         IO
'~~'~~~'  -  -~~~  *,.  .7           ~~~IATIONAL . aRTS DEVELOPMENT ;PROJECT. .. i   .. .Nao 
-. - ?r1*..s.  - 1.1I                                                                           9-
l   a   ZF<l! z 1' - -- - I~~-  a
OR IMPROVEDFl"UY 
am     Aumm e A 
PitONCTAREAS ~  PENUAY 



IBRO 1806
VI YxIA M  AL               PAciPI cOCEAN
UK    NCAPO~/  r snZ
Cn, A' - ax m t
FM- W of *5 -
& ft m n  to
USiaw SW' a   .  ft
- ft UtSmSiw  ,*_ To
4nv- .:- ft -    1
ifuvt a  ,a _t  I
SICinfMISwb*i
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ONG foS n400  INDfNIOUNDESI
hjA'.USI ft W' USATELUK                                                                                   r
t  '                                               J     S    WCO SEllH  |      . . '    : r                -; ._  ; . . i _ . :; .~~~~~~lloo to 0.0 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVN ANNDR UTILTIE
~~~~~~ my SiftYcigy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'EITN FCLTE
EU,mW U aseb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNODIGciH N
Si-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY18



IBRD 1806I
-S \t   8    \^.\                                   INDONESIA
-   NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PANJANG
PAyVIN, AND utilitIES
\XISTING IAlilTitS
V- <    \ \     ;', IxISTlNG PACItIlES TIt OtlM ISHtD
R OADS
- \  \ -_ -   IROADS tO be SMANItoI 06 NAeuGNID
mAaLw'rs
AND FAR        ^"aA To l  rc              F + +-  RAIL WAYS TO r ODISUANILID
/ IV. ) :  1 *       ' '' i                                        i UNDIN K, OJR
ti    3                      -                -  INttLNATIONAI OUNDANIts
ARIA 1011 COMPLI1U0 
usmiN KP PROJe 
ti ~~~\ a ta -a   o
ILAUMAUTANIWPU
-   NMA&AVUIA    em/                                                                     \ 
_A   msinu 0  'JL --                          liN                                  \\ \
-*J                                                                                                                                   1 9 8
SUl.|_         0|AIm1.L*A' _            _i_
JANUARY 1965



aLoufma im
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,* .!                                              _ 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --<>"<                                               L *^ -g-,
>  '.","w....                                   _     S , S        s 9       9 ..    - tn**. 
1%~~~~~~~~~6
.           ..                                                                                ..-->           ,
Az                                   .
JI-.
.W6=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
PONTIANAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAR 0



mu tin
INOONESIA                                                                               *A.GAA STrAT
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    -
PALEMBANG
_ _        - -  - l   _  \   F  ~l4-  --
, (r  . -\,,\t,--  \                                                          --.-b.= I~~~~~~~~~~~, 1 i
_                                              C
-   La-.-                                    I            -I-~~~~~~~ USI    IV  
V -AI.AY IM



