Doumeut Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rkprt No. P-4089-tT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS111.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1985
IThis d.c.nmt bo a rugIcte dhtulbdom ad may be ied by redplents emiy In the perfommee of
heir oU.cd dukies ]b coumibs qmy     oherwiwe be dilosed wit"t Wold Bunk *traion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million      US$909
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1-March 31
Public Port Corporation II - January 1-December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS  -  National Development Planning Agency-
DEPENG    -  Supervisory Board for the Pubiic Port Corporations
DGSC      -  Directorate General of Sea Communications
COI       -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES    -  Presidential Instruction
JICA      -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
HOC       -  Ministry of Communications
MPW       -  Ministry of Public Works
MSDP      -  Maritime Sector Development Program
PERUM     -  Public Utility Corporation
PERUMPEL  -  Regional Public Port Corporation
REPELITA  -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV
1984-89; Repelita V 1989-94)
RLS       -  Regular Liner Services
SPN       -  National Transport Sector Development Guide (Sistem
Perhubungan Nasional)
YUKA      -  Port labor pool



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of rndonesia
Beneficiary:       Public Port Corporation II
Amount:            US$111.0 milLion equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:          Part of the proceeds of the IBRD Loan (US$100.2 million)
would be onlent by the Government to the Public Port
Corporation II on the same terms as the Bank loan, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description     The project would (a) improve port productivity and manage-
ment in one of four regional public port corporations in
Indonesia and provide demonstration effects for the others;
(b) facilitate seaborne cargo unitization; (c) rehabilitate
and modernize five ports in the Public Port Corporation II
(Tanjung Priok, Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang, and Pon-
tianak); (d) provide training for port personnel and staff
of port service organizations; and (e) provide technical
assistance for strengthening of maritime sector management
and pLanning, preparation of future water transport and
land transport improvement schemes, and improving oversight
of state transport corporations. The project would yield
substantial economic benefits through reduction of sea
transport costs in the foreign and domestic trades; as such
it would contribute to improving the performance of Indo-
nesia's maritime transport system. There is some risk that
part of the required land acquisition could not be timely
completed; however, a feasible timetable has been
established and satisfactory contingency plans exist to
deal with such problems, if they arise.
This document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:/a                                  Local      Foreign   Total
--(USs million) ---
Civil Works /b                   49.8       54.3    104.1
Equipment                          2.6      26.7      29.3
Consultant Services and            5.9       6.4      12.3
Technical Assistance
Total Base Costs              58.3       87.4    145.7
Physical Contingencies             4.7       6.1      10.8
Price Contingencies               12.5      17.5      30.0
Subtotal                      17.2       23.6      40.8
Total Project Costs            75.5     111.0    186.5
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                -      111.0    111.0
Government                        75.5        -       75.5
Total                        75.5      111.0    186.5
Expected
Disbursements:
Bank FY       1986   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
-       -    (US$ millionT
Annual        4.5    15.5  26.0  26.0  20.0  10.0   9.0
Cumulative    4.5    20.0  46.0  72.0  92.0 102.0 111.0
Rate of Return:           32%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5422-IND, daLed Hay 15, 1985.
Maps:                     IBRD Nos. 18065, 18066, 18067, 18068, 18069, and
18070.
/a Including US$14.5 million in taxes.
7i Including the cost of required land acquisition.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$111.0 million to help
finance the National Ports Development Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variabLe interest
rate. Part of the proceeds of the loan (US$100.2 million) would be onlent by
the Government to the Public Port Corporation II (PERUMPEL II) on the same
terms as the Bank loan, .at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plenciful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP  r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-'
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
1/   On the basis of the WorLd Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (COI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil.  Met exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of CentraL Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4X p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although chis was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid-to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dolLar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated lomestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broa ening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. CDP, led by strong performance in



the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.72 in 1983 and 6.5Z in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4Z
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsibLe for this imp-ovement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probabLy fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, heLped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983
and 9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 52 p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures. is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key poLicy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
externaL trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project-implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector wiLl be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, che need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This arget should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industr_.al economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantLy, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and



-4-
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and reguLations requiring
higher local content in production - have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the Longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50X of Indonesia's GDP and 62Z of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there a-e two
important processes at work in Indonesia wnich enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16X of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.



-5 -
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40Y; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless Laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limiced avaiLable evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth,
13.       In the future, the avaiLability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3Z p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the Labor market is not expected
co Lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining, labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contrinute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term. especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms- If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in



- 6 -
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness.  This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in wattr supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18X of the rural and 402 of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainrnble levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets-(52 p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-reLated credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues ro manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
202. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 252 in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, th- _otal
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.48 million (less cancellations), and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less canceLlations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) externaL debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and
the share of debt service, 10.3% compared with 13.3Z and 7.9Z, respectiveLy,
in 1982. From 1968 until. 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff Level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (incLuding transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transporta-
tion, education, urban development, water supply, rural development, indus-
trial development financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecom-
munications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (L969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increasef emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate pov-
erty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Health
(Manpower Development) Project (No. P-4040-IND), circulated under cover
of R85-117, dated April 25, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
o.a May 14, 1985.



- a -
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recur-
rent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achieve-
ment of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high Level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize che ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource devel-
opment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationaLize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing an efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on
improving the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban
development and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to
developing innovative low-cost solutions, p-roviding for cost recovery and
strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the
Government budget and decCntralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to c.ntribute aL,ut 20%
of Indonesia's capital requirements during the next three years and is
expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where
possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through
technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated
policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending
programs for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There ha, been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio-/ from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 19% in FY84. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However,
it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.  Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September
41   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
L979. November 1981 and May 1984.  As a consequence of these joint initia-
tives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project impLementation. In
addition, in order to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project imple-
mentation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of
all of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 milLion in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84.  It is nevertheless clear
that continued efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of
disbursements are required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement
ratio below the Bank-wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The
Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identifv problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions
and policies, as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia.
Efforts are also underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to
snedu the procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land
acquisition procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to
devote continued attention to these and other aspects of project implementa-
tion in the coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized
from the Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND MARITIME SUBSECTOR
The Role of Transport in National Development
21.       Transport demand in Indonesia is estimated to have developed at
about 12% per annum during the 1970s. When annual GDP growth slowed down
during the early 1980s as a result of worldwide recession, transport demand
continued to increase at high annual rates of between 8% and IOZ. With the
country's geographic dimensions and large population, attempts to cope with
the necessarily diverse nature of transport demand efficiently and equitably
remain a difficult task, which is aggravated by the need to constantly address
newly emerging demands, resulting from economic progress and population in-
creases. While the coverage of the country's transport system is generally
adequate, the system's performance is to a considerable extent not yet in line
with market demands. Not only have substantial elements of the system dete-
riorated, but many facilities are obsolete in concept and cannot provide
efficient services, consonant with new and cost-saving transport technologies.
System obsoleteness implies avoidable transport costs and growing impediments
to domestic and foreign trade development.
22.       The transport system in Indonesia includes all major modes:  high-
way, railway, air, river and sea transport. The role and importance of each
mode in addressing transport demand vary among regions. There have also been
marked differences in traffic growth by mode. Over the Last few years, annual
traffic growth was very high for air transport (22%), high to moderate for high-
way (16%) and sea transport (12Z), and stagnant to negative for rail transport.
The principal road network expanded from 85,000 km in 1971 to 148,000 km in
1983, when there were about 4.6 milLion motorized vehicles on Indonesia's roads.



- 10 -
The country's railway network comprises some 6,000 route-km, covering all of
Java and parts of Sumatra. Presently there are 53 classified airports in Indo-
nesia and several hundred smaller, non-classified airfields. The total number
of commercial aircraft in operation exceeded 700 in 1983. There are several
thousand km of navigable waterways among Indonesia's river systems, and more
than lO,000 river craft are estimated to be in operation.
23.       The Repelita IV transport development budget provides Rp 9,106 bil-
Lion or about 12% of the total plan budget; for the maritime subsector an
amount of Rp 1,964 billion has been appropriated. Of considerable burden to
GOI's budget are the costs of various subsidy schemes in the transport sector,
which have been devised over time to offset apparent inequalities and also to
cover the difference between the revenues and expenditures of state transport
enterprises. Cost recovery in the highway sector has been limited, at levels
of 40Z to 50% of annual government outlays. The State Railways continue to be
dependent on subsidies, amounting to Rp 60-80 billion per annum, and there re-
main several subsidy requirements in the maritime sector. The global sum re-
quired to operate and maintain all Indonesian ports in 1983 was Rp 150 billion,
whereas the combined revenues collected in these ports during the same period
was about Rp 90 billion. GOI has also to routinely support the shipping
industry with subsidies at estimated annual levels of Rp 25-30 billion.
24.        Faced with buoyant transport demand, substantial sector subsidy
requirements, and at the same time reduced financial resources, GOI needs to
pursue a policy aimed at improving the efficiency of existing transport
resources and increasing the level of cost recovery in the sector. Also, a
sector environment has to be established and specific incentives have to be
introduced which are conducive to attracting private capital and initiatives.
Maritime Subsector
25.       Maritime transport is a key link in Indonesia's domestic and foreign
trade. Between the mid-1970s and the early 1980s, domestic seaborne trade
increased at an average annual rate of 8%, to reach 30 million tons in 1983.
During the same period the annual increase of imported cargo flows was llX; in
1983, 26.4 million tons of various import commodities were channelled through
Indenesian ports. The volume of annual exports has remained relatively stable
at about 100 million tons during the last six years. The nature and composi-
tion of export, import and domestic cargoes continue to undergo significant
changes. Crude oil and natural gas have been the major commodities for many
years, but their share in the volume of seaborne traffic has decreased. In
early 1982 GOI promulgated its export drive policy, aimed at diversifying the
country's export base to offset losses in the oil trade, and to reduce the
economy's vulnerability to fluctuations in the world market. As a conse-
quence, other export cargoes are gradually gaining a more important share in
seaborne trade.
26.       There are problems associated with trade coordination which affect
fleet productivity. Coordination among traders and between the traders and
the shipping industry is limited, and often inefficiencly guided by government
institutions. As a result, there are frequent discrepancies between available
cargo space and cargoes to be transported. The consequences are either



- 11 -
substantial delays in moving cargo, or underutilized ship capacity. Freight
documentation is generally incoherent, leading to further impediments in
seaborne cargo management.
27.       The backbone of Indonesia's domestic shipping industry nre Regular
Liner Services (RLS) providing transport capacity on fixed routes and at fixed
intervals. RLS is complemented by short distance feeder services, and tradi-
tional sail boats.  The domestic fleet included 8,150 ships with a total dead
weight tonnage of 4,648,000 in 1983. The proportion of old and technolog-
ically obsolete ships in the domestic fleet is high; thus aLmost all ships are
not readily geared to modern, low-cost unitized cargo handling arrangements.
The productivity of ships in the domestic fleet is low. This low performance
is partially due to conventional and therefore costly cargo handling practices
on board ships, but more importantly because of shortcomings in the operation
of ports. It is because of these .inefficiencies that as much as 65% of total
sea transport costs are generated in ports. To reduce sea transport costs in
Indonesia, and particularly the port time of ships, there is a need to
unitize, seaborne cargoes.
28.       The country's port infrastructure is geographicalLy fairly evenly
distributed. There are more than 300 ports, some 45 of which have annual car-
go throughputs in excess of 200,000 tons. International cargo fLows through
all Indonesian ports have grown at average annual rates of 7.5% since the mid-
1970s, whereas domestic cargoes increased at average annual rates of 13Z
during the same period. Almost all ports in Indonesia were established during
pre-independence days. The layout of these ports and port facility configura-
tions were derived from design concepts and cargo handling arrangements which
reflect the applicable technologies and maritime industry customs in use dur-
ing the first decades of this century. Over the last 25 years very few physi-
cal adjustments have been made to the country's port system. The majority of
Indonesia's ports are therefore presently not equipped for the introduction of
modern technology, low-cost cargo handling arrangements. In many ports, vital
installations are badly deteriorated. Cargo handling equipment is often in
poor state of repair. As a result, cargo movements are slow, and a signifi-
cant percentage of cargo is damaged in the process.
29.       Most land-side managemient of cargo is handled by shipping compani-es
which generally give priority to their own ships, regardless of arrival dates
and berthing time.  In all ports there is a labor pool (YUKA), which is organ-
ized and managed by a supervisory body composed of representatives from dif-
ferent government institutions, the Shipowner's Association, and the labor
unions. Each terminal operator is obliged to use YUKA labor over which he has
no disciplinary control. High rates of absenteeism are common and labor
productivity is generally low, as there are no incentives for improving
performance.
30.       There are several services which are involved in processing a ship
or cargo through each port. These services include the harbor master, customs
authorities, terminal operators, freigh forwarders, and a host of brokers.
The working hours of each service and the availability of service agents are
generally not coordinated. It is particularly the customs inspection services
which have caused substantial additions to ship waiting and cargo handling



- 12 -
times. All cargoes, including shipments with origins and destinations within
Indonesia, have been subject to a stringent and time-consuming customs
clearance procedure. Low port productivity has escalated the transport costs
and such costs are reflected in the world market prices of Indonesian goods,
and in the domestic market prices of imported and locaL commodities. These
circumstances have contributed to the poor performance of the merchant fleet,
and capital invested in ships yielded low returns, which had consequential
negative impacts on private initiatives in the shipping industry. Low produc-
tivity has also become a significant and increasing impediment to regional
development in the port hinterlands, where growth of the local economies is
criticially dependent on efficient trade with other regions in Indonesia, and
the outside world.
31.       Cost saving cargo handling technologies and management arrangements
which are increasingly employed by Indonesia's actual and potential trade
partners, and in the international shipping industry, dictate changes in the
national ports. Cargo unitization, especially containerization, has become
commonplace in global trade. Through unitization cargo can be handled faster,
and the incidence of damage and pilferage is greatly reduced, all of which
results in substantial transport cost savings. To maintain the competitive-
ness of Indonesian commodities in international markets and to support the
export drive policy, GOI has chosen to pursue a program aimed at adjusting the
country's ports and their management for unitized cargo handling. As in the
case of international trade, the domestic trade would also greatly benefit
from seaborne cargo unitization. However, not only are the domestic ports
ill-equipped to handle containers, the local shipping industry and freight
forwarders are not organized to effectively cater for such demand.
Sector Organization and Management
32.       Responsibility for developing the transport system and organizing
its operations and maintenance is shared among three Government agencies. The
Ministry of Communications (MOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport
modes through its Directorates General of Air, Land and Sea Communications.
The Directorate General of Highways in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) man-
ages the highway system. The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS),
reviews sectoral investment plans drawn up by HOC and MPW and approves invest-
ment plans under the development budget. The organization of MOC and MPW are
repLicated at the provincial level, but delegation of authority to the pro-
vincial branches has been slow. Because of limited involvement of provincial
governments in transport development planning and sector management decision-
making, development plans have often not adequately reflected regional needs,
and sector management arrangements have lacked effectiveness.
33.       Coordination of transport sector development planning, programming
and budgetting across line agencies at the central level, is also a problem.
While BAPPENAS has tried to balance modal investment programs, the absence of
an overall transport development and management strategy has hampered rational
decision-making concerning the most cost-effective role of each mode in the
transport system. A critical constraint is the lack of effective mechanisms
to compare the potential of optimizing the use of existing resources against
the merits of proposed new investments, and to assess overall transport system



- 13 -
adjustment needs in the light of ongoing national and international develop-
ments. Avoidable investment decisions are frequently taken, and the transport
system remains largely inflexible to changes in market conditions. The organ-
izational and regulatory framework which governs the transport sector has thus
been a major im-ediment to the evolution of an efficient system, and subsidies
have often masked system inefficiencies.
34.       The organization and management of the maritime subsector have been
major factors contributing to poor performance. The subsector has been cen-
trally managed by the Directorate General of Sea Communication (DGSC) with
only limited participation of individual port managers or the shipping
industry in decision-making processes. Highly centralized authority and
limited staff expertise in DGSC have led to inefficiencies which have been
compounded by the lack of effective pLanning, programming and budgeting.
Financial practices in ports have been deficient, and DGSC's reguLatory frame-
work governing the shipping and freight forwarding industries has been
restrictive, causing distortions and high costs in the provision of maritime
services. The laws and regulations applicable to the maritime subsector were
to a considerable extent promulgated during pre-independence years. In
today's subsector environment and market conditions, many of these legal
provisions have become hindrances to required system reforms.
Cov-e-ament Policies and Actions
35.       To address these problems, many of which have been long standing,
GOI has established a program which aims at (a) rationalizing transport devel-
opment planning; (b) decentralizating transport sector management functions;
,c) deregulating transport services; and (d) increasing cost recovery from
system users, and private sector participation in transport development finan-
cing. To overcome the problems associated with uncoordinated transport plan-
ning, programming and budgeting, MOC is preparing a broad transport sector
development guide, the Sistem Perhubungan Nasional (SPN), which takes into
account regional development plans and comparative advantages of each trans-
port mode. Parallel to the preparation of SPN, MOC's Directorates General of
Land and Sea Communications are drawing up comprehensive development plans for
land and water transport. In 1983, GOI issued a policy directive which calls
for increasing cwmmercial orientation of public sector functions and inducing
privatization in the transport sector. Consequently, many transport sector
functions which were managed by the Government in the past are now scheduled
to be transferred-to state enterprises, which either exist already, like the
National Toll Road Corporation, or have been recently established for that
purpose, as in the case of port infrastructure. These enterprises are man-
dated to provide efficient, demand-responsive transport services and to become
financially self-sufficient. Cost recovery in the sector is improving as a
consequence of revised pricing for the use of transport infrastructure and
user taxation. For example, major highways are now being built as toll roads
with partial financing through bond sales in the domestic capital market. A
major cause for subsidies in the transport sector has been removed as a result
of significant increases in prices of gasoline and diesel fuel. Cost recovery
in the highway sector will also improve as a result of the 1984 general
taxation reform which provides for increased road user charges.



- 14 -
36.       The most important changes have been introduced in the maritime sub-
sector. They include decentralization and commercialization of port manage-
ment, and substantial deregulation of the shipping and freight forwarding
industries. There have also been profound changes in customs procedures. The
basis for these reforms was established through the Maritime Sector Develop-
ment Program (MSDP) which was initiated in March 1982 under the auspices of
DGSC. Under MSDP, 15 task forces were established to deal with different
aspects of the maritime subsector, including administration and management,
the regulative framework, operation and management of port infrastructure,
customs procedures, the shipping and ship-building industries, and required
trianing and human resources development. By late 1984 detailed problem
assessments had been completed and remedial measures had been prepared.
37.       As a critical first step in support of MSDP, GOI decided to separate
the management of key ports from DGSC, and four new public port corporations
were established in May 1983. These corporations are organized as state
enterprises with GOI as the sole shareholder (PERUMs). PERUMs are mandated to
operate and be managed in line with commercial principles, and to strive for
financial self-sufficiency. The four public port corporations (PERUMPELs) are
headquartered in the country's four main ports. Each PERUMPEL has its defined
zone of responsibility. The PERUMPELs manage 90 of the country's ports; all
remaining ports continue to be managed by the DGSC through its regional
offices, although the longer term goal is to integrate them into the PERUMPEL
structure. During the intervening months since their establishment in May
1983, the PERUMPELs have taken the necessary steps-to organize their
activities. Managers and staff have been appointed. Financial and operation-
al management procedures have been drawn up, and are being successively intro-
duced. A guiding framework for port management is being prepared through
corporate plans.
38.       Also in support of MSDP, DGSC has drawn up a program for
streamlining the provision of inter-island shipping and port services. This
program is now being implemented on an experimental basis, as the practicality
of several proposed systsem adjustments has to be tested. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached that the action program would be satisfactorily
implemented (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       In April 1985, GOI announced through Presidential Instruction
(INPRES 4/85), far-reaching and sweeping reforms on ports and shipping. These
reforms address excessive subsector regulation and aim at reducing costs
associated with customs, port operations and shipping; they are expected to
profoundly affect all aspects of trade. Export goods, and domestic trade are
no longer subject to regular customs inspection.  Import commodities will be
inspected at the ports of origin by Government-appointed surveyors who will
determine import duties and other levies, which the importers will pay to
designated banks. Under these procedures the role of the customs authorities
will be limited to ensuring that documents are completed, and that cargo will
be promptly released from Indonesian ports. Customs inspections of domestic
cargoes have been completely abolished.
40.       Foreign flag liners and conference carriers are to be treated on the
same basis as local shipping companies regarding harbor dues and the freedom



- 15 -
to call in any port which is open to international trade. Terminal operations
by domestic shipping companies will be discontinued, and qualified enterprises
will be appointed for these services on the basis of competitive bidding.
YUKA will be reorganized and port worker wages have been substantially
increased. Freight forwarding has been completely dereguLated. A mandatory
24-hour three-shift system has been introduced in all ports. To ensure
efficient port services coordination the position of port administrators has
been established. These administrators are empowered with considerable
authority to enforce timely and effective provision of port services.
41.       The past multitude of port charges and fees have been consolidated
and simplified. Cargo loading and unloading charges have been reduced.
INPRES 4/85 provides also for several measures which represent major steps in
deregulating inter-island shipping. Various requirements imposed on shipping
companies providing domestic services have been removed. Sea freight tariffs
have been consolidated and represent ceilings. Actual sea freight charges
will be negotiated between shipping companies and shippers.
42.       The drastic nature of the reforms introduced in INPRES 4/85 is a
clear indication of GOI's determination to remove administrative and proce-
dural impediments in the maritime subsector. The implementation of these
measures will be a major challenge, but given time and the Government's com-
mitment to the reforms, there is little reason to doubt that significant
progress is Likely to be achieved in improving customs and port operations,
and the provision of shipping services. -
Bank Group Role and Maritime Subsector Assistance Strategy
43.       To date the Bank has assisted GOI in its effort to develop the mari-
time transport system through three lending operations. The First Shipping
Project (Credit 318-IND, US$8.5 million) was completed in 1979. The project
essentially aimed at rehabilitating RLS ships. The Second Shipping Project
(Loan 1250-IND, US$54 million) was completed in 1984 and had an expanded scope
of providing financial assistance for ship procurment; it also helped to
establish the National Fleet Development Corporation. The Project Performance
Audit Report for the First Shipping Project (SecM83-299), states that wbile
the aims of the project were desirable, they have not been achieved. Expected
ship productivity improvements did not materialize because the Bank Group did
not attempt to deal with regulatory issues. Implementation of the Second
Shipping Project was a noticeable improvement over the experience gained under
the first project. There were still weaknesses in institutional performance
and development, but to a much lesser extent. The project contributed sub-
stantially to initiating the required sector reforms through MSDP. The third
Bank lending operation, the Tanjung Priok Port Project (Loan 1337-IND, US$32
million), was completed in 1984. Under the project the domestic traffic sec-
tion of the port was improved and expanded. Most importantly, however, the
project was instrumental in establishing container handling capacity in the
port.  The three projects were implemented over a period of 12 years.  The
lessons to be learned from the completed Bank operations suggest that the
complexity of problems in the maritime sector and institutional weaknesses
limit the extent to which policy, institutional and procedural reforms can be
successfully implemented in single lending operations.



- 16 -
44.       An part of its subsector support strategy, the Bank helped GOI in
assessing maritime transport problems and issues, and in drawing up MSDP. All
technical assistance in MSDP preparation and the implementation of the firmt
MSDP action plans was financed with proceeds out of Loans 1250-, 1337- and
2120-IND. In the meantime several multilateral and bilateral institutions have
joined the Bank in assisting COI to improve maritime transport under MSDP,
including ADB, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Federal Republic
of Germany (KEW), and the Netherlands Covernment. In parallel with continuing
sector dialogue, the Bank will arrange for lending operations which would
address high priority needs in the maritime transport subsector and increasingly
aim at rectifying system shortcomings. Integral parts of this strategy would be
gradual decentralization of sector management functions, increasing commercial-
ization of maritime infrastructure and services, and progressive liberalization
of subsector regulations, all of which would be in support of INPRES 4/85.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       During the initial phases of MSDP preparation, it became obvious
that low port productivity was a key bottleneck in maritime system perfor-
mance. Therefore, a decision was taken to address port efficiency problems on
a priority basis, which led to the preparation of the National Ports
Development Project. Bank-financed consultants were hired during the second
half of 1982 to prepare optimization studies for key ports, and to draw up
plans and designs for required improvements. A pre-appraisal mission visited
Indonesia in June 1983. The project objectives, scope and composition emerged
from joint discussions between the MSDP Steering Committee, DGSC, BAPPENAS and
the Bank. The project was appraised in November/December 1983. Since the new
arrangements for port management and related services needed to be firmed up,
there were two post-appraisal missions in Hay/June and November/December 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington on April 22-26, 1985. The Indonesian
delegation was led by Mr. J.E. Habibie, Director General for Sea Communica-
tions. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5422-IND is being distributed sepa-
rately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
46.       The proj-ect would be the first Bank lending operation aimed at
improving port operations and management, and would support the objectives of
INPRES 4/85. Specifically, the project would demonstrate how port efficiency
improvements, and thus sea transport cost reductions, can be achieved through
the application of internationally proven port management and operations
practices and arrangements. The project would also arrange for necessary
facility rehabilitation and modernization in ports to facilitate seaborne
cargo unitization. It is expected that the experience gained during project
implementation would guide future similar efforts throughout the country's
port system.
47.       The project's primary focus would be the new Public Port Corporation
II. The Corporation would be assisted in establishing sound technical and



- 17 -
financial management procedures, and in implementing port operations improve-
ment schemes. Special emphasis would be given to introducing modern low-cost
cargo handling arrangements through selected upgrading of existing installa-
tions. These measures would ensure that projected port traffic can be
efficiently 1 idled until the mid-1990s. Extensive training of Corporation
and port personnel would be arranged.
48.       DGSC would be assisted in its efforts to:  (a) promote cargo
unitization; (b) streamline seaborne trade coordination; and (c) improve
sector performance monitoring and analyze freight market trends. MOC would be
assisted in: (a) guiding state transport enterprises; (b) preparing for
improved utilization of the country's river network for transport purposes;
(c) developing land and sea transport improvement schemes; and (d) estab-
lishing a national transport sector development guide.
The Public Port Corporation II
49.       In line with GOI's decision to commercialize and to separate from
DGSC the management and operation of the country's major ports, the Public
Port Corporation II (PERUMPEL II) was established as one of the four new
public port corporations to manage these ports in the future. Like the other
public port corporations, PERUMPEL II was established on May 1, 1983, and
became operational on January 1, 1984. Under the enacting legislation
PERUMPEL II's mandate is (a) to build, equip and maintain all land- and sea-
side port installations and ancillary facilities, required for efficient
handling of ships, goods and passengers, and (b) to provide all port services,
such as pilotage and terminal operations in the Corporation's administration
zone. The Corporation is responsible for planning necessary infrastructure
improvement and development to meet changing port user requirements.
50.       The administrative zone of PERUMPEL II covers the southern half of
Sumatra, Wesc Kalimantan and West Java, and encompasses an area where
presently most domestic and international trade is generated. The main port
in the zone is Tanjung Priok, Indonesia's most important gateway. Second in
importance are the ports of Teluk Bayur, Panjang, Palembang, and Pontianak.
Teluk Bayur is the major port on the west coast of Sumatra and serves a
hinterland where extensive agricultural, industrial and mining developments
take place. The port of Panjang is located at the southern tip of Stumtra and
serves the Lampung and Bengkulu provinces with important agricultural
activities and transmigration schemes. Palembang is a river port, about 100
km inland, and serves the province of South Sumatra; it is the site of
important and fast growing fertilizer, cement and oil refining industries,
which generate substantial sea transport demand. The port of Pontianak is the
only important sea outlet on the west coast of Kalimantan; it is located 20 km
upstream from the estuary of the Kapuas Kecil River. Except for Tanjung
Priok, all ports in the PERUMPEL II zone are characterized by substantially
deteriorated installations and system obsoleteness. A main reason causing
deterioration of port installations and facilities was inadequate maintenance
and associated budgets. During negotiations PERUMPEL II agreed to implement
improved maintenance arrangements and to provide funds for adequate annual
port maintenance budgets (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
51.       PERUMPEL II is under the superviscry control of MOC.  A Board of
Supervisors (DEPENG) has been established and includes representatives of MOC,
the Ministries of Finance and Trade, the relevant provincial governments, and
the port users. vDEPENG reports to the Minister of Communications. The
Corporation is administered and managed by a Board of Directors, which
includes the Managing Director as chairman and the Directors of Operations,
Technical Affairs, Finance and Personnel/General Administration.  An internal
audit unit reports directly to the Managing Director.  The five directors and
their reporting staff form the PERUMPEL II headquarters, which is Located in
Jakarta. The Corporation has branch offices in each of the 19 ports under its
jurisdiction. The organization and staffing of each branch office is tailored
to the size and importance of particular port in the PERUMPEL II zone. The
experience of most Corporation staff in dealing with corporate management and
in organizing port operations is still limited. The general policy and
procedual principles and criteria for PERUMPEL II management have been
established, and have been translated into operational standards, guidelines
and arrangements, which are reflected in PERUMPEL II's corporate pLan. While
the proposed approaches and arrangements for PERUMPEL II management are satis-
factory, details of the proposed organizational and procedural arrangements
need to be appropriately adjusted, as experience in port administration under
the new rules and regulations is gained.
52.       Particularly importanc for PERUMPEL II management are financial
policies and procedures which will be conducive to attaining the Corporation's
mandate. As a PERUM the Corporation is to increasingly finance the operating-
expenditures in all its ports and to contribute substantially to required
investments through internally generated funds. The ports which PERUMPEL II
and the other public port corporations took under their responsibilities
reflect a wide spectrum in terms of physical conditions, operating
efficiencies and financial performance. In many of these ports user charges
have not been changed for several years, while inflation caused cost
increases, which generated growing subsidy requirements. GOI recognizes that
the new public port corporations will be hard tested during their formative
years in trying to achieve financial self-sufficiency in the face of time
required to effect operational improvements, and public sensitivities
regarding tariff increases. Nevertheless, there is agreement on the objective
to reach financial self-sufficienicy within a reasonable timeframe through   -
progressive improvements in financial and operational performance.  In the
interim and until such condition is achieved, GOI will assist the public port
corporations in financing investment requirements.
53.       To support effective financial management the existing accounting
system needs to be adjusted in order to strengthen cost control, budgeting and
financial analysis and tariff calculations. The system also should provide
improved information for senior management to conduct the operational and
financial affairs of the Corporation. During negotiations it was agreed that
the revised accounting system would be designed by December 31, 1985, would be
introduced not later than July 1, 1986, and would be used for that fiscal year
and thereafter (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
54.       As a step towards sound financial management, the opening balance
sheets for PERUMPEL II have to be formalized by GOI. An officially appointed
liquidation committee, composed of representatives from several GOI line
agencies, has already drafted the opening balance sheets for Government
approval. The provisions of the draft balance sheets are satisiactory.
Pending Government approval, PERUMPEL II management is pursuing its financial
planning on the basis of the committee's recommendation. It is not expected
that there will be any material modifications in the draft balance sheets
before their legalization.
55.       The last asset valuation for the ports in the PERUMPEL II zone was
carried out in 1977. The current replacement value of most assets is likelv
to be much higher than in 1977, and depreciation allowances will have to be
adjusted accordingly. During negotiations, agreement was reached that assets
would be revalued by December 31,-1986, and periodically thereafter (Section
4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       Based on the recommendations of port optimization schemes, PERUMPEL
II is preparing operations improvement action plans for each port under its
jurisdiction. Since Tanjung Priok is the pivotal port of PERUMPEL II, and
early operations and management adjustments are critically important for the
rest of the system, the action plan for the port has been completed. The
port's proposed operations improvement plan provisions are satisfactory. It
is expected that operations improvement schemes for Teluk Bayur, Panjang,
Palembang and Pontianak will be prepared by July 1985. Receipt of satis-
factory schemes would be a condition of disbursement for the individual
ports. (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.01 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Description
57.       In the Corporation's hub, the port of Tanjung Priok, existing
container handling facilities are reaching their capacity limits; additional
installations have to be developed to service projected traffic. Accordingly,
the port's container terminal would be improved and expanded, including quay
strengthening and container crane rail extensions so that containers can be
handled without restriction throughout the terminal area. Additional
container handling and stacking areas would be obtained by developing zones
adjacent to the terminal. Capital dredging would be carried out to increase
the water depth in the terminal area in line with projected ship movements.
In order to avoid the Longested streets in the port area and to ensure speedy
passage of containers into and out of the port, a limited access road link
would be constructed. A truck park would be established, and a new complex
constructed to house the terminal administration. Container-handling
equipment, based on the existing terminal operational system, incorporating
rail-mounted quay cranes, rubber-tired transtainers in the stacking areas, and
transitting tractors and trailers would be procured, and improved workshop
facilities would be established for the maintenance of container handling
equipment.
58.       A short-term development plan for Teluk Bayur established the
necessary port rehabilitation and development measures to meet projected



- 20 -
traffic demand. Based on the recommendations under the plan, three badly
deteriorated quays would be reconstructed. Without reconstruction these quays
would have to be decommissioned during the next five years. Substantial
capital dredging would be carried out to increase the water depth in the port
and access channel in line with projected ship movements. Restricted working
areas and obsolete transit sheds behind these quays would be altered and
modernized. The port would be expanded to include a multipurpose terminal for
container and other unitized cargo handling. The terminal complex would
include a 200 m long new berch, and a 30,000 sq m reclaimed back-up zone for
cargo handling, working and storage areas for fertilizers, parking, mar-
shalling, and additional open and covered storage needs of the port's general
cargo operations. A multipurpose freight station would be constructed, and
road access to the port's hinterland would be improved. A set of basic
equipment for unitized cargo, especially container handling would be
procured. To improve the maintenance of existing and new port equipment, a
workshop would be installed and provided with necessary tools and material.
59.       In Panjang shortcomings in existing port facilities and installa-
tions have to be remedied. For handling of containers and non-containerized
cargo, a 45,000 sq m land area would be developed behind new quays, and there
would be alteration and modernization of existing working areas and transit
sheds. Construction of these quays is in the final stage and is financed by
KfW. A multipurpose freight station would be constructed. Some capital
dredging would be carried out to increase the water depth in line with
projected ship_movements.  A gap in existing quay frontage would be filled,
and several measures to Tiprove tie proviL 1..f port services would be
implemented, such as demolishing delapidated sheds, pavin4  service roads and
working areas, installing drainage and water/electricity supply. A basic set
of equipment for unitized cargo handling would be procured. To improve the
maintenance of existing and new equipment, a workshop would be installed and
provided with necessary tools and material.
60.       The present main problem in Palembang is the lack of handling
capacity for unitized cargoes, although container traffic has started to build
up. A multipurpose terminal would be established on the north bank of the
Musi river.  About 60,000 sq m of land would be developed as back-up area for
cargo handling. An existing warehouse would be remodeled for transit of non-
containerized cargoes, and a new multipurpose freight station would be
built. A system of basic equipment for unitized cargo, especially container
handling would be procured. To improve the maintenance of existing and new
port equipment, a workshop would be installed and provided with necessary
tools and material. A basin for service boats employed in the port would be
developed.
61.       The Port of Pontianak is in poor condition, most of its structures
and installations are considerably deteriorated. Under the project, two ouL
of three existing berths would be rehabilitated, and a new berth of 100 m
length would be constructed to fill an existing gap, such that the port would
have 400 m of continuous quays. An existing transit shed would be complemented
by two new sheds with a total covered area of about 4,500 sq m. One shed
would be suitable for container and unitized cargo handling. Several measures
to improve the provision of port services would be implemented, such as



- 21 -
demolishing delapidated buiLdings, paving service roads and working areas,
installing drainage and water/electricity supply. Accommodations for
different port services would be built, including a service boat jetty. A
basic set of equipment for unitized cargo handling would be procured. To
improve the m- ntenance of existing and new equipment, a workshop would be
installed, and provided with necessary tools and material.
62.       Technical designs and tender documents for all measures required in
the project ports have been satisfactorily completed by Bank-financed con-
sultants.
63.       Consultant Services, Technical Assistance and Training.  Consultant
services would be retained for construction management in all project ports.
The construction management contracts would be with consortia, formed by the
design consultants and Local firms. Such arrangements would ensure technology
transfer to Local consuLtants and thereby contribute to GOI's objective of
developing the domestic consulting industry. Technical assistance would be
provided to PERUMPEL II and the other public port corporations in corporate
management, port operations, and equipment management. PERUMPEL II management
would arrange for required training of port personnel and staff of the
different services in the ports (like terminal operators, freight forwarders
and brokers) in support of the operations improvement schemes. Technical
assistance would be provided for these training programs, for which the
concepts, curricula and implementation arrangements have been established.
The training programs would be open to personnel from the other public port
corporations after meeting the priority needs of PERUMPEL II. Training for
port workers would be provided by the NetherLands Government. There would be
appropriate coordination of training provided under the project with the
Netherlands-assisted port worker training.
64.       TechnicaL assistance would be provided to DGSC in:  (a) maritime
sector monitoring and data management; (b) seaborne trade management (through
organizing better coordination among traders and between traders/shippers and
the shipping industry, and streamLining freight documentation); and (c) cargo
unitization (through providing advisory services to traders, shipping
companies and freight forwarders, on possible measures to facilitate unitiza-
tion of seaborne cargoes). Jechnical assistance would also be provided to MOC
for: (a) the administration of state transport enterprises and to provide
advisory services; (b) the preparation of river transport development schemes
to improve cargo distribution and passenger transport in Kalimantan and
Sumatra; (c) the preparation of transport improvement schemes to establish
effective land/sea transport interfaces, least-cost modal arrangements for
inland movement and sea transport of cargoes and passengers; and (d) the
establishment of a national transport sector development guide. Draft terms
of reference and resource requirements for technical assistance and training
have been prepared, and these along with associated service arrangements are
satisfactory.
Project Implementation
65.       Project implementation would be primarily the responsibility of
PERUMPEL II. Under the guidance of the Corporation's Managing Director, the



- 22 -
Directorates of Technical Affairs, Operations, Finance and General Adminis-
tration would manage the implementation of the different project provisions.
Qualified foreign and local experts would assist in all these efforts. In the
office of the Corporation's Managing Director, a project coordination unit has
been established. DCSC related project measures would be monitored and guided
by the MSDP coordinator in the office of the Director General. All studies in
MOC would be under the direct supervision of the Ministry's Secretary General
and managed by the head of MOC's Planning Bureau. The project impLementation
period is expected to be about six years.
66.       The different measures to be taken under the project aimed at
improved port management and productivity will need careful monitoring. The
appropriateness of actions taken, and the corresponding implementation
arrangements will have to be tested, and timely adjustments made, as and when
required. Eventually, when optimal procedures and their operational impact
have been determined, it is expected that they would be replicated under
similar efforts in other ports in Indonesia. To establish a benchmark against
which changes in port efficiency could be measured, current production rates
of key activities in the project ports have been established. Productivity
targets for these activities, to be attained in 1990, have been set, from
which semi-annually required productivity improvements will be derived. The
port productivity targets were agreed during negotiations (Schedule 2 of the
draft Project Agreement).
67.       PERUMPEL II, DGSC afid MOC would maintain-separate records and  -
accounts for the project components implemented under their respective
auspices. These records and accounts would be sufficient in detail to
identify the goods and services financed with loan proceeds, and be maintained
in line with sound accounting practices. The accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.01 of the
draft Loan and Project Agreements).
68.       Im?lementation of project measures will require clearance of land
within port perimeters, which is presently occupied by private companies,
government services, or squatters. This land is owned by the respective port
administrations, and compensation will only have to be provided to cover re-
location costs.  In Tanjung Ptiok and Palembang, there will also be a need to
acquire land outside the present port perimeters to permit development of
required additional working spaces.  Necessary land clearance or acquisition
procedures have been initiated; the arrangements and timetable for this -
process, which will be completed by mid 1987, are satisfactory.
Project Costs and Financing
69.       The total financing required for the project, including contingency
allowances is estimated at US$186.5 million (Rp 205.2 billion), which includes
an amount of US$14.5 million, representing taxes. Equipment would be exempted
from taxes and import duties. An allowance of 10 physical contingencies was -
made for all project items, except equipment. Price increases for local costs
were calculated at 8% in 1985-90 and 5Z in 1991, and for foreign costs at 5%
in 1985, 7.5X in 1986, 8% between 1987 and 1990, and 52 in 1991. The foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$111.0 million, or 60% of the total project



- 23 -
costs, including taxes. The base cost estimate reflects April 1985 unit
prices which were derived from extensive analyses of recently awarded civil
engineering contracts for port works, and supplier quotations for port equip-
ment. Estimates of technical assistance costs include salaries, fees,
international and domestic travel, subsistence and other applicable charges.
70.       The Bank loan of US$111.0 million would finance the project's esti-
mated full foreign exchange costs.  The remaining 40X of the total costs would
be financed by GOI. GOI would pass on the loan portion allocated for port
improvements (US$100.2 million) to PERUMPEL II through a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would oe a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement Arrangements
71.       Procurement of all civil works and equipment would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines; this
would amount to US$161.7 million, including contingencies, of which US$94.2
million would be financed by the Bank loan. All bidding documents would be
subject to Bank review and approval before tendering; the same principle would
apply to proposed contract awards. It is expectet that for most civil works
contracts joint ventures of local and foreign contractors would be formed.
Given the highly specialized and often sophisticated nature of the required
equipment, it is expected that the majority of such equipmenc would be
supplied by foreign manufacturers.  The usual preferential treatment (15Z) for
bids from local manufacturers would be afforded. Construction management
consultants and technical assistance/training experts would be appointed in
accordance with Bank guidelines; the Bank Loan would finance the entire amount
of US$16.8 million, including contingencies.
Disbursements
72.       The proposed loan of US$111.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
as follows: (a) 50% of tocal expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and 65%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally, for equipment; and (c)
100% of total expenditures for technical assistance, consultants and
training. Disbursements for (c) wouLd be on the basis of statements of
expenditure.  Supporting documentation would be retained by PERUMPEL II, MOC
and DGSC for inspection by Bank staff during supervision.  The expected loan
closing date is June 30, 1992.
Environmental Impact
73.       The project is not expected to cause any adverse environmental
effects. All construction measures under the project would be in already
existing port basins; thus there would be no project generated interference
with coastal or river currents. Land reclamation in Teluk Bayur would be with
marine sands which would be dredged from the sea bed; analyses have demon-
strated that there would be no environmental damage resulting from such
action. Except for the access road improvements in Tanjung Priok and
Palembang, all other project measures would be carried out within existing



- 24 -
port perimeters. Possible disturbances resulting from the road works would be
temporary and be kept at acceptable minimum through appropriate traffic man-
agement arrangements.
Financial Performance of the PERUMPEL II
74.       Among the four public port corporations, PERUMPEL II is the largest
in terms of cargo volume and gross revenues. Over the last few years it has
also become the financially strongest, accounting for more than two thirds of
the net income generated by all ports. The financial performance indicators
are satisfactory, and show continuing improvements. The Corporation's good
performance is due principally to Tanjung Priok, which generates about 75% of
the corporation's revenues and generally 90% or more of its net income. The
other four rroject ports together contribute about 17% to the Corporation's
revenues. Their financial performance has been weak over the last several
years, with revenues often falling short of working expenses.  The
Corporation's remaining branch ports contribute about 6 to 7% to combined
revenues.
75.       The projected financial performance reveals improving trends in all
project ports. The initial revenue reducing impact of tariff provisions under
INPRES 4/85 should be gradually neutralized by the cost reducing effects of
project measures and the other provisions of INPRES 4/85. As long as cost
inflation is offset by corresponding tariff adjustments in each port, PERUMPEL
II should attain a financial position by 1992 which would enable full coverage
of future investment and operating costs with Corporation internaLly generated
funds. Thus the Corporation could be expected to become financially self-
sufficient by the end of the project implementation period. During nego-
tiations financial performance targets were discussed and it was agreed that
working ratios should be attained and thereafter not exceeded, as follows:
PERUMPEL II 8OZ by 1987; Tanjung Priok 70% by 1987, Teluk Bayur and Pontianak
75% by 1990, and Panjang and Palembang 80% by 1990.  In addition, agreement
was reached that PERUMPEL II shouLd maintain a debt service ratio of 1.5
(Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
76.       Given the presently weak financial position of all project ports,
except Tanjung Priok, and the sizeable investment requirements under the
project, GOI has decided to fund the local project costs in each port as
equity contribution. All other cash requirements in the project ports are
expected to be covered by Corporation internally generated funds, primarily
through income in Tanjung Priok, which should maintain its good financial
performance. However, GOI has agreed that if this is not possible, for
example if ceilings are imposed on required tariff adjustments in pursuit of
the objectives of INPRES 4/85, PERUMPEL II would be compensated for the
resulting revenue shortfalls. (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       The Corporation's future financial performance needs careful moni-
toring, so that timely remedial measures could be taken if performance trends
would not be conducive to attaining the agreed working ratios. During negoti-
ations a monitoring procedure was agreed which provides for (a) an annual
financial performance review; (b) determination of required operational and



- 25 -
financial measures to be taken to ensure that the agreed ratios will be
achieved and maintained; and (c) an assurance that the required measures would
be promptly taken (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
78.       Measurable project benefits would largely result from reductions in
ship waiting and services times. Such reductions would materialize as a
consequence of streamlined port operations and improved port facilities. A
substantial proportion of ship turnaround time reductions would be achieved
through gradually increasing cargo unitization, which would be promoted under
the project. Also, containerization of shipments would lead to a diminishing
incidence of cargo loss and damage. All these reductions would translate into
cost savings for the shipping lines, the freight forwarders, and insurance
companies.
79.       Indirect project benefits, which were not calculated, include:  (a)
more efficient utilization of domestic ships, which will curtail to some
extent DCSC projected fleet development requirements; tb) reduced port
expansion needs because unitized cargo-handling allows a higher intensity of
facility utilization than current arrangements; and (c) facilitating regional
development through reduced commodity costs, and thus accelerated trade
growth. Finally, the project would be beneficial through estabLishing a
repiicable framework for improving port productivity throughout Indonesia.
80.       The overall economic rate of return on the project investment is
expected to be 322. The effect of possible changes in key parameters on the
rate of return was tested, tog-ther with the influence of possible cost
increases above the appraisal estimate. For Tanjung Priok a detailed proba-
bility analysis was carried ouz, considering the combined effects of different
handling productivities, container dwell times, the rate of inter-island cargo
containerization, the extent of import/export cargo transshipments to other
ports, and variations in construction costs. The mean incremental economic
rate of return of the proposed project investments in Tanjung Priok is
expected to be 53%; there is only a 10% chance that the rate of return would
be less than 15%, but there is a 35% chance that the rate could exceed 100%.
A more limited sensitivity analysis was carried out for the other project
ports and revealed that a 20% shortfall in traffic forecast, containerization,
or port productivity, or a 20% increase in construction cost, would yield
rates of return no lower than 15% for Teluk Bayur and Panjang, 19% for
Palembang and 14% for Pontianak. Best estimates are 19% for Taluk Bayur and
Panjang, 22% for Palembang and 17% for Pontianak.
81.       The principal risks associated with the project are (a) the possibi-
lities of slower than anticipated seaborne traffic increases; (b) limited pro-
gress in port productivity improvements; (c) delays in land clearance or
acquisition; and (d) constrained decision-making in PERUMPEL II. The combi-
nation of (a) and (b) would be consequential for the economic rate of
return. However, because the project addresses critically required adjust-
ments in these ports, even a combined effect of a 20% increase in project
costs and 20% decrease in project benefits would still result in an overall
economic rate of return for the project above 20%. Delays in land acquistion



- 26 -
and clearing are conceivable in the ports of Tanjung Priok and Palembang,
where squatters have to be moved from port owned land. However, delays would
become critical only in the third year of project implementation, and techni-
cally acceptable alternative solutions have been established in case squatter
relocation could not be timely organized. Finally, it is important that
PERUMPEL II management be given the latitude to exercise its rights and
privileges conceded by the enacting legisLation of the new public port
corporations, without restriction in the pursuit of the project objectives.
The port administrators, established by INPRES 4/85, are mandated to ensure
that the Corporation can perform efficiently. The performance of PERUMPEL II
will receive particular attention during project supervision.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Perusahaan Umum
Pelabuhan II (PERUMPEL II) and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project
are: (a) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and PERUMPEL II would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (para. 70); and (b) the receipt of satisfactory action plans for
the individual ports wouLd be a condition of disbursement for the individual
ports (para. 56). Other special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-27 -                                       Page l of 5 pages
INDOUCSA              - SOCIAL IDIAOS DATA S
INDOI.SIA                         REFREN  CR0631S (EIrGTED AVEACES) I/
aIDST                 (cOa  BE=  usrau) lb
sc 1? r  mcu     MDD M                mun  INCuKZ
19601   19?Q!!!zmIATF-.I          ASIA A PACIFIC       LAT. AKZRICA & CAR
a  (sO seBN . 9 6)
TOAL                              1919.3     1919.3   1919;43
ACIICULTURAL                       296.5      307.1    317.3
GM  a CU  (CM)                        90.0      150.0    580.0            1091.2                  2106.6
uzr wana cur
(EILOGAMS OF OIL EQUIVALDIT)       86.0        98.0    191.0            567.3                   ff5.5
IOPUL&101U AND VITAL S5TXSC
POPULATIONID-.YA  (THOUSANDS)    946O.0   116201.0  152598.0
URBA  POPULATION (S Or TOTAL)      14.6        17.1     22.3             34.7                    66.5
POPULATIO PRoJECTIONS
POPULATION IN  EAR 2000 (HILL)                       212.0
STATIOURY POPULTION (KILL)                           370.1
POPULArION IWNENU                                      1.,
POPULATiON ncmT
PEt sq. 1M.                       49.3       60.5     77.9            261.9                    35.7
PER sq. MI. AGIh. LAM            319.3 -   376.4    471.0            1735.1                    92.4
POPULATION AGE SMUCTRE (C)
0-14 tRS                         40.7       44.0     39.5             39.0                    39.9
15-64 US                          56.2       53.4     57.3             57.6                    56.0
65 AND AOVE                        3.1        2.5      3.1              3.3                     4.1
POPULATION ROUTH RATE CE)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.0      2.3              2.3                     2.4
URBaN                              3.7        3.6      4.5              4.3                     3.6
CRUDE BIRTN RATE (PER 730US)        44.2       41.0     33.6             30.1                    31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE THOUS)        22.9        17.6     13.0              9.5                     8.1
GROSS REpRODUCTION RATE             2.7         2.7      2.2              2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCETRS, ANNILL (THOUS)             ..      181.1   3051.0
USERS t2 OF H ORRIED WON)          ..         ..      53.0 /c          52.7                    40.3
rFOD SM 5OHnor
INOEX OF FOOD PRDO. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0       102.0    117.0            123.0                   114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES C OF REQUIRIENTS)        36.0       96.0    110.0            114.4                   110.6
PROTEINS (CRAZUS PER DAY)         38.0       44.0     49.0             57.0                    67.3
OF tWICN ANI ALD PULSE           6.0        6.0      7.0 ld          14.1                    34.1
CWILD (ACES 1-4) DBEATH RATE       22.9        16.9     13.0              7.2                     5.7
HEALS1
LIFE EXPECT. AT URTH (TEARS)       41.2        47.0     53.3             60.4                    64.7
INFANT NORT. RATE (PEI TROUS)     149.9       120.9    1D2.0             66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (IPnP)
TOTA                                ''        3.0     23.0             37.0                    65.4
URBAN                               *        10.0     61.0             54.8          _         78.1
RURAL                               *-        1.0     16.0             26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EICRErA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATIONl)
TOTAL                               '        15.0     23.0             41.3                    52.9
URBAN                               ..       19.0     20.0             47.4                    67.0
RURAL                              '-        16.0     24.0             33.3                    24.5
POPULATION PER PISICIAN          46780. 0    26510.0  11530.0 le       7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER NRSING PERSON            4510.0 /f  7680.0   2300.0 T         2460.4                   815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0     1650.0   17200 o          1044.2                   367.2
URBAN                            250.0        ..    7.oTjt            651.2                   411.5
RURAL                               __        ..   3160.0 6a         2594.6                  2636.3
ALNEISSIONS PER HOSPITAL MMD         _          ._      22.4 lh          27.0                    27.3
aVa
AVERAGE SIZE OF IO3USEIOLD
TOTAL                              4.4        4.8
URBAN                             4.9         5.3
RURAL                             4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROM
TOTAL                               ..        1.5
URBAN                               ..        1.6
RURAL                               ..        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLIGs)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
Rm                                 ..          ..
RaRAL                               ' ''



- 28-                                        ANNEX I
28es  - La-50-T s5 Pagem
silnenoMOS                              (M  nm       ses  ^^^ 
1860Lk.    1070&     M              ASIA a i*avi@          MA2. MInO    
ASJUUTU            PA0UU3.O20
nwA!asI   OToAL                     71.0        77.0     100.0             102.0                     105.4
NALS                     36.0        62.0    L06.0              ios.g                     106.3
FIXAU                    5-.0        71.0      94.0              91.2                     104.5
ICOIAys TOML                         h.0        15.0      50.0              44.0                      U3.2
MAI                      10.0        20 a      26.0              41.7                      42.3
nU                        3 .o0      10.0      24.0              43.1                      44.5                      -
VOCAEI0AL (t Of 4UD)                  20.4        22.1      13.4              17.5                      33.6
COII-9CU    RDZ
IRmARI                              31.0        20.0      52.0              31.8                      30.1
SECONDARY                           14.0        13.0      L6.0              23.3                      16.4
AULT LITRIAS RT (C)                   31.0        56.6      62.0              72.9                      79.5
PASSZ    CIIC/TwUSAJ  PO               1.1         2.1       4.4              10.1                      46.0
RADIO uZc     /TBOuUoo D POP           7.2        21.9      42.4             113.6                     225.6
TV RECKIVlRS/TBOUSAND POP              0.1         0.4       9.6              50.1                     107.2
msPAln ('D=Y  0na3
IiIURZS)  nCSLATIOU
PER 7hUAND  DOPULAIIoU              11.0          ..      17.7              53.9                      63.5
CIRISA ANNAL  ATTUANCI/CAIrA          2.8          ..       0.8 -iE           3.4                       2.8
LAMM
TOTAL LABOR FORM CTMOUS)           34791.0    41090.0  543U9.0
-A  CPRCENT)                        27.8        30.9      29.1              33.5                      23.2
ACEICULTURE (PERCENT)               75.0        66.0      54.0              52.2                      31.5
INUSTRY (PERET)                      8.0        10.0      12.0              17.9                     23.9
PAFCIPATIO  RATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.7        35.4      35.8              38.7                      32.2
MALE                                54.2        49.5      51.1              50.9                      49.3
-UALX                               20.0        21.6      20.7              26.6                      15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENCDC  RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.2               1.1                      1.4
1N m
PERCENT W  PRIVATE ID001
RECEIVED FY
IE.S? 5 w OOSEOLDS                    ..          ..      23.5              22.2
HICHST 20 or OUSDW                    ..          ..     49.7               AN.0
5IT 20X OF IOUSEHt                    ..          ..      6.6 X              6. 1.
LowIS? Am or HOUSE0..                                    14.4 S5.5..
to10 rWl        -
ESTIKAO ABSOLUT  POVUEf IUC=
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPI)
URBAN                                 ..       L24.00    124.0 A           1a.6                      248.2
RURAL                                 ..       106.0 _f  106.0 7           152.0                     l84.0
ESTIMATED WIM   E POVER?! DMMHE
LEVEL (US PE  CAPITA)
nuR"AN..                                          ..    119.0 tl           177.9                     522.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..     98.011            164.6                    372.4
ESRTD1E  POP. ELO ARSOLUTE
Prozr   X4 LEVL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..        51.0 /    26.0 /            23.4
2mAIL                                           59.0 7F   44.0              37.7
SOT AVAILABE
NOT APPLICABLE
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ND                         T VZ
NOTES
/a  The rmp aver*ge for each ladicator erz  populatioan-i.1.ted rltebmtlc _ms. Coverage of ccmtr1ua   m_  the
indicators depends an swalobl2ty of data .d Ie not ouolu.
/b   Unl1s otbetwias noted,  eta for 1960 refer to aW year bet_.. 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970 boete   1969 end
1971; and data for Most RIent Eetlaete  beteen 1980 and 1982.
/c  1983; /d 1977; to 1979; lf 1962; J& 1976;  h  975; lt 1940 price.
J,s1984



-LA I... I5 'ia-a   saa  -ll             1aafwpa   -as.  q
is-  psala  'I-as.-   i ass-01 a-  e         -aLiI   li P ""Id   - I
asAa.S  .S-iaal   * p-a             -    . - s   ~aas  'is 7 5  s
is*ls-ma's n-a .    a..  -a-i' s-Ja  .    ii..    a p.- .se-  a
P..                                                                                                          _1_3~~~~~~~~~~,'aii   s1d    iiSa   3i-i5     (iifl  -als
itS: -sq                                        i'P   -         iiePd's piasad  saa iiti - iise --  MisPSlissas
I-P IMI W. "L.1        sis"   aS           7-PnS  'i    -aS.-a
-  ns r -d   P   .1sIssiass   s  ssa    i-a'. pa Asi-i--a *                                 -J*51   as  ie.  ...aa.. -P(isA M. ai   -9 .-PAld
n-au  - Ca-s-a.-) 1.-al mast -la-..4 easi-hy  siai iniasiae  pd-aiia a                                                                       stasis-_
'iisa  -l- -i111    caaaqiia-   s--CP.r   --
t-sasa  sa  .55-  -  ii  -   da.a.s-ia- aw  as-                         'sa   mm  a.~g'  a-i  s.'s_   ai  sssp-anna  -                    Ja.s
atad.,sad aa-s aspalis-se sii-at   asi L A-sd-a-i-a u1s.c                     Psatsna           a  *             " asi .  -ea na -a'se  qiaj 
mi saassspss a-5-a'isiisss  sl  act.-~-'- *ulssi,i 85aflss   S i55i '5iii,S  IA-paad sa- dis sia                        5ipP ses  p,a
5-1a-   list aisiisti  -at  aa~  i ~e~    ai d-es  a-isQ                      as.~i *is'  i.-5.j    stsap55i-'s  -a)Lid-.Is.l.e  las  a
- msa  ..  qas- asia  aa  as) iai  -'a) saas  3am.-p-alaP                          '-ep  ies i-t-5 '(isi  isid.i isa plas   a
'- paaisase   s-peaaai-psi                                        a-ia-p-da               1--s  e   isa.-              iaa    --a
is 3-saia Sq p-isaas- ipamip.- is -.      -J. insai  s.sa   -Lsaaaiada*ea"-i.sias-  sa-                                          PjiaasP---,PiasSi
ifti f.. 01.1 'MlAmaAmideas                                                                     'is  is-Ipaasi tlI..sm,pii Pml-ssa
P-,asa-   .a-  isP    iaid5s.ii-   5'Sai'aasim-.ias-    1. i.-,siI-&s   - Apa-ia-a                                                                    --ss   i
a- -Rr-   ~          '~ass-s-as  a                sLiL  5a5                      aais    '-3 Iaimd         1-sia.'dsiadpiac   assi
1   I-'-ac  i.  Pai  as'isalidd  q  a-  aAla.. -s-s  eaaas                                    sa-'asis   psaasmdssi    i-s-   sia                             .'aas
Liais ssa-iSaas  -uii-sps   Li. ss-~   isp i.)psi 'ss  'sss             ise)sa.i '- sIiasP-a-  -ie-   -aias     eIit-   aiiiies'A
Raaias-  -mi-p  iaps    S.P   s-s  ia,i  .ssaa                                      aas1iaaSAa -m .it-imad                     Alids P.1a aa- i   sism5  As's
-   dLii n-t aimS a  'si-s '-as. -   p    -s s-is  Laseas                         s-a   :sp        - iiaasia   -"c'a-S  isiais  a-aas  i5P 
--iiiaa-1 -i--         A- -- 'i--i                                                                                           '_ases  -ia -  isiaa
'iis' ss  ie   isl      mae  'si-ais  tasli- ama-aap    a5'aa- in st'i'       pip
saM  a-si5-eaS n-i ia-a  uiasaasa- .s  a-  asi. 'Ciaia551isi   aaa  sis.5 ..midsp-a  -assali-               mpa-ma- aasaa  -s ajjs
P:: ma~ss  -misass -mp                        Ralj n-     - (1a-   Aemsal''iiails                                                -- msLSSia*P iaili ~ taii.1a- a--a-   a-U-s-o
nsa   m a- oaa'sss  1.aLiua.qs  isai as-.ass-a   -  -ti                   i')-alSasial                -sa      pw -in-- asoa P-$-s   - IIA:Sp
-    wsiaam-              si    )iLi-s iLia up 1E sem.iid.
.q. -S --w- j- R_ 14   W  =7:2~~~~~~~~~~~~~i i " isaisss i ss
.1 MI---   - ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ -i-   Ii-                             aia    s  siasas-  sLLism-              5   iiaa)  .U    -1. m P.-ia*
am         - mesi -. ssPSP Ui-ma -       " si  ss PiLi.a.                                         I."      -Im-I  - -sIs-isiL                  _od  'af
Sc an-s sia - p -p. - ii    - 'L5    a m -a-asasi-assmiip-dAis   -a   a   iis   as.a.a  iame'idiI
".-   --sa-   -a   ---aS   si n=                      i-                  amAa'i  -s-   ps-- In=is-J.d  is                    wva as de   -J.ssi    i-
p.anams-i 55  '--*  msan   Isipaasa si   mia-sa   a1-a-    ssialqs                                                                                     'S- S
sA.n-.aa   R   pa..aiirn      -.I-,i ismids a-Z ni        1             RRI 1-siS  s--a                                          'sLp        p~ a- C-'saiss  isaa-.C
'is-"usais  ps -sm -V-t-isid-.                                                ssp(.mis sga'-ad. is-a';d. P-.
am  a-i- sflaasa p. a- a.. -pa  _cas-   i   sLa.. --J                                         - Ps-imis-  -st-s .i  -isy   5pa   .([i -a)-ai.e.   ps
LIp-   asaalus1  sslaA                  mLiaaL.s-a ai -a-i-a a,p-asic                                                  'hsc        S 5'is 's-C           ,  sasdA
J. aasa  isi-aa  -R pii   -   m.P            ssaiLiiasasst-:.                                           '.:5'ai      -as-(c..-   a   s-a   i-
-d                                 :7~~~~~"ap  6 1=a' f    'm-a LAs
'ass P   -aat si -is -.a.iai   i'. is-a  s aa--s-            pas ,--si dida   -al  -Tsa  55o a-aS  '- PSi i55iS54S  'ILi 
d liaise  :Sp-  aea~i).  aaif      aLsasise.as    s-'apisips'ni"siisasLa)
Vapif .1 'AlpPim-aLi-sa.-  is.I.                                         a Sins aamm.   Lab   s    R-saaia a.sd.'pta - S .d
'"Wim    i"Rpsa  aHis Iafa                 --AumN-sdepl                       I  -ad        isLai-sad- -           adqm    A--ialsi  iuisi Ziap -    in
-ial    -i.    paen--as'iilsmsi'iaiis  ---i.sJ   't as-A p-pc  si-sA.1dd  p..as s.-isisdfiaaaLasas
'a-a-ia- Aimfls-i                -As   'ia- psaa -   1-~P.a msli-sdP.   - das  aiji     ..s-   I
-. pasasia -.  pads-as.  lab 5cs-s-S s   i ii J. LaWiNudsasi!-pqi  n   n    ails   ss~i~isd a Si  i  Rq  m-p.1
~i  'aafl a--ea a -s-a ass a--a  ~- -a--a -iisa-a                        mi-iw-n~-ss-    lSll a.. -s eas l   s-sa-a V"ao--'5
'abopoo    i-R      iiissa-i  --sAM~i-                          ai                      1-ais  a-sm  s             .-Jai,.n   daissi-s.'a.  5i-  s-
asS is-ia-isa- daaiad a- p.abai ihsasleap -l a1-i--n  0            -s- P-   i.-6 "fiai' sa 'as., iJ id -   'sF-i -m'i.-   ssna-a
J-jV- LAR pq) -J.$Ad" .  q.pjl... A a- "  "   .'ssdaad isitsLiFsP  5553d-pa    dim_ sLi Psor aliaid a-iliiss
p-    Io"   PI-]  .1.31doom I..ai    is a  -PSPSi aqi i sa -  'spa'asaasi  Iimai
1.1p.-  Al do-pd ftipp-d              -    -1          ~       ~      II1-s  iad  utiaai   at  s  Papaaa  Sa              .-Ps mi asi-p   ii
1P l5a =Ld-iLlslPIaiI   iaaa .3a-as La-aim1-1df         i- -smile..,"j  a.gfl qiiii-.1 Saipla-Si eami                                      ..- -- 'aia    Au  -ooaid-S
M3as   5   'P-IMl.a-s. Pmimi-n     asaa'dl0 SliA5aS  51 m Lf.'.a..ais  'i   si-as  isadli  ' -ai-a ao, ala  Ls-is.a-i
smisa-a. a-dsas is-s iss n-a  mi %3m  --aaoo sciJ.d  *lms  -p-is- -n-i -eafea -                          i-i0    i.dan P- v- iCi    -i-I
ap.a-- .i. aLis i-a-a PS  AseAjds 'inp    -                                                                                         isa-ss1-as  i aqJ.ta-ae.1 Ii32T~UI
si  apia-in p.A- 5 a-st  si-  a-  nn-             ' - _L-    sn-aps   aP-a41  --p 'Ai P.-sstsao Lseis                          1 O5a.. n-aa'-isii.iaL
~~                                                                                 ~          PS   ~    'm *P- I-  p.Imi-d-
p-  "WR'D  :s 3-   'app. Sc a.1...p.i     dippl,-usI 16saf--sel                l          &.   fL-av               4J. Oa           --t-   was               --
-%ss'm  a- -i   elsmn1- s*  .n-  Pass.&   S. iWjlft.11-W'SIIN!I=                                    -1- 1   0                4   1        '   M  I-RIP -SJ s--V-l
-1   1.Vdd`RldA.   I'-ulimuasi i- N.a a-   -3-1p's1i  s nine-do                   passsa t.ii3.1add- a-sts-iss  a  a.  ael'm-  (Aa= aaasl "I .1q-
PSni--AP  i=  ts-c  551  a-i-  ga.isiii '--    .1'isi-i-                A. -        aLiias "'pAis           .  PSsp  e-Is A- ' a-d -'LilCIti P    a-i -d-Iss Sassyd
iPIPS    dli i-i -aisSiS    Sq nals Atis.pam    PS  -usaI.-   i-*                 a-i-s pa55ab3-   ia-aS. i-a-P.st                      A.e ..,_scsi sI .. 
PS  mt-i apis-   ...s i.s.       udfs --Ppa-a 'e-ii  s   sa'a-a            moa pApl  , - P                    .8.5r  -Fao.b   .     80                   -      q
iria-lss Ai-aiseia    Mipia sotAs-at1 -if      RIs '.I.Pas -t .p.pSfAl. a--i.a- Sq-                                                             Pa-P  Us   S    T41'5
a-a'- m  iasa ain-imPi---*iaiiam   saiss  -a.imami                             a-n-amasa  -m   -i  nap-   it-  -saes
oogvd        ;O          C in    siiiasPSIa-iP--sa    Saiq' OPi-ii                                              'Lidasi-a-a.   '  s-t-  le.sa                           a-s..is  p 
-In--n-F"s   -issaasiqai~   (ia-m-at-di



P-3IOLal/I*-239/ICD-D/05-73-85/ujd-sdldb/2    - 30 -
ANNEX I
Popapation    1 155.8 million (.ld4-1963)                                                                   Fags 4 of 5 Page.
GOI per Capita:  US$560 (1983 estlmate)
INDONIESA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Awmunt
(milllon US$ at                            Annual growth rate (X) /b
curront prices)                Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                           1982          _0   lS81   l9YZ   1983  !S84/a  1955  196b   1987   1S5    198   IY9U
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestrc product /a         78,344        9.9    7.9  -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651        5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Induetry                       29,896        12.5    8.5  -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                       27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                       62,731       12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross invoetment /d               18,908       18.9   11.1    8.5  -7.0  -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CGPS                   19,508       -5.6  -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Importe of GNlS                   22,803       15.1   27.1    3.2  -8.6  -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Groas national savinp             12,273       33.2  -20,0  -11.3    3.7   18.4  -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
lDrdeflator (1981 - 100)                         91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Rp per US$)                      627    632    661    919  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(ot current pricee)                ______  Aver~ ae*nnual increaee (1 /b
9b     1970   1975     80   1985   1991985-90
Cross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100         3.9       8.4        7.4       6.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47     32     25     26      25        2.7       4.1        3.3       4.1       3.7
Industry                       14     18     34     43     38      38        5.2      12.0       9.8        3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35     35    :i2    36       37        4.8       9.7       9.5        5.6       5.5
Consumption                   91      89     79     71     78      76        4.1       8.4       9.2        6.0       4.0
Cross investment /d             8     14     20     21      18     19        4.8      18.3       12.2       2.6       5.4
Exports of GNFS -              13     13     23     31     25      24        3.6       9.2       2.9       -1.1       4.0
Imports of CNFS              -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2      22.1      14.0        2.6       2.5
Cross national savings          a      9     17     26      19     21        6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3       6.8
As I of GDP
I960              19(0               1 /.5             1980               1984x
PUBLIC MUINAECE /e
Current revenue                              11.7              10.1               17.4               22.5              21.5
Current expenditures                         14.0               8.4                9.9               12.8              13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   -2.3              +1.6               +7.5              +9.7               +8.2
Capital e.penditure                            n.e.             5.0               11.3               13.0              10.0
Foreign financing                             0.2                3.5               3.7                3.3               1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
AnInua  CNP Fojwth rate (2)                  -      4.5              7.6             7.1             4.1             4.7
Annual GNP per capita growth ra 2 (Z)               2.4              5.1             4.7             2.0             2.5
Annual energy consumption grovtr rate (2)           2.2             11.2            11.0             1.4             4.6
ICOR                                                2.2             2.2              3.3            4.8              4.0
Marginal savings rate                               0.30             0.48            0.28           -0.01            0.29
Import elasticity                                   1.2              2.8             0.84            0.57            0.53
/a Estimates.
7W At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7- At merket prices.
71 Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
Te  Central GCovernment only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Nay 3, 1985



P-gOILl I1N-239/ICIU-ND/05-07-8t/sd/db/I 1
Population    :  155.8 million (mid-1983)                      - 31 -                                       ANNEX I
GNP per Capita: US$560 (1983 estImate)                                                                       aage of 5 page.
INDONESIA - LALANCe OF PAYHENTS AND  TERNnAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(KilfLons U55 at current prie.s)
Actual                                Projected
1980     IIII    198Z      1983      1954/a  1M5      1986     1981      1990
BALANCE OF PAYKENTS/b
aorts                                   22,885   22.994   18.672   19,817   20 243  20.769   22.868   26,170   36.235
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                   17.297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14.341  14.253   15,512   17,821   23.848
(b)  Nonoil                                 5,588    4,170    3,928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8.349   12.387
2. Imports (including net UFS)                -17 ,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20 ,783  -23,026  -31.586
(a)  Oil sector                            -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3.839   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3,619  -6,540
(b)  Monoll imports                      -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,899  -16.462  -22.438
(ce) NFS (net)                             -1,70Z   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1.649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3.  Resource balance                            5,296      424  -3,667        162  -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4. Factor services                             -3.165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528  -4,994   -5,708   -7,287
(a)  interest public debt                    -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598  -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216  -2,428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,4R7
5. Capltal grants                                  76       67       105       95      100     112       119      125      150
6. Balance on curreat account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7. Direct Eoreign investment                      140.     142       311      193      250     250       275      300      375
8. Public K & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                           2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortization                            -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1.295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545  -4,603
Cc) Net disbursements                       1,615    1,620    3,000    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9. Other capital (fet)                         -1,488      -31       455    1,975      287   -143       -104     -418-    133
lo. Change in reserves (- increase)             -2,736      988    3,350   -1,619      -873    -400     -672      -966     -309
11. Net official reserves                        7,342    6.354    3,004    4,623    5,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9.384
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ UFS                                       6.5      4.4      2.1       3.5      4.6     4.6      4.7       4.9      4.5
Memorandum Item
Net toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                    10,787   10.622    6,322    8.395    9.930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reselrves in months of nonoil
Imports + NFS                                  9.6      7.4      4.3       6.4      8.2     8.1      7.9       7.8      6.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBI/d
Gross Disbursements                            2,551    2,673    4 192    4 965    3 828
Concessionsi Loans                             -tsr      'Y       t          o      tss
Bilateral                                   TWm       7                 Ir       W7
IDA                                           42       69       78        60       54
Other                                          6        7         8        8       19
Nonconcessional Loans                          1 892    1880    3503    4 357    3,277
Bilateral                                      W        704
IBRD                                           331      314      505       489      772
Other multilateral                              52       85       126      160      163
Private-source                               1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed Ie           14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
OfEicial-source             9       ,     50 ll ,llZ           IZ,
Private-source                             5,465    5,812    7,403    9.649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service                                                --
Totar service payments                       1.759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                     823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as % of exports/f                     7.7      8.9      12.0     12.9     16.0
AveraRe Interest Rate on New Loans ()            8.1      8.7      9.2       8.8      9.1
Ot trial-source                                5.4      7.8      8.8       8.7      8.6
Private-source                                12.4      9.4      9.5       8.8      9.8
Aversge Maturity of New Loans (Years)           18.8     15.5     15.2      15.1     15.9
OtXrciA-source                               24.4     20.5     20.6      22.3     20.9
Private-source                                 9.8     11.1      11.1     10.3      9.2
As X of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                            34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                           65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                          7.0
/a  Estimates.
71  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7W  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7T  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7eW  At end of period.                                                                         East Asia and Pacific Region
71  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                May 3. 1985



- 32-                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less canceLLations)
number   year      -pose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,584.59   642.71         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00       -        68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00       -        29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                     -      49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00       -        23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       54.00       -        11.26
1692    L979   Second Agricultural Training                  42.00       -         8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                                123.20       -        19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                               -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00       -        86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00       -        41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.50       -         9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -       12.00       7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           99.00       -        34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -       37.6       15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00       -        53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            42.00       -        29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -       30.00       5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00       -        86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               46.00       -        33.06
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00       -        37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00       -        21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00       -        24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



33 -ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amounc (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            161.00       -       114.44
2011    1981   Second SmaLl Enterprise Development          106.00       -         8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -        75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -        84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00       -        10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00       -        85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00       -        63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00       -        76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00       -        24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00       -        21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00       -        48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00       -        41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            68.10       -        59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00       -        19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50       -         4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00       -       256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60       -       152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00       -        25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40       -        21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00       -        66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00       -        28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60      -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90       -       158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50       -        61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40       -       107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00       -       241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30       -        62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholdez Sugar          79.20       -        53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00       -        41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00       -        85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00       -       235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65       -        39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70       -       204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00       -        64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00       -       209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00       -        50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -        77.81
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30      -         11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II la         131.00      -        131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         ObLigor                business           --  (US$ million)
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8       3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.5       2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4       3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism             9.8       1.6      11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7       6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3       2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -        0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5       0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6       3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -        1.1       1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile         -
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4        -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2       1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -        0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3       5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6     19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             107.6      7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                                36.0     12.2       48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                    9.5



36                           ANNEX II I
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project         :  24 months
(b)  Agency which proposed the project         :  DGSC
(c)  First Bank mission to consider project   :  June 1983
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission            :  November 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations                :  April 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             :  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank ImpLementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
COI and PERUMPEL II wilL ensure that the following actions are
carried out:
Ca) implementation of the shipping and port services 'iprovement schemes
(para. 38);
(b) completion of operation improvement schemes for the project ports
(para. 56);
(c) attainment of productivity targets for each of the project ports
(para. 66); and
(d) achievement and subsequent maintenance of agreed financial
performance indicators in the project ports and for PERUMPEL II
(para. 75-77).



._.                .t  ~~~~~THAILAND 
:    . .  -   \  S  >  sourH    cw/~~~~~~~>i  SEA              SX       \ $         f                9. r1-              -, NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
\ 4 zj ~MALAYSIA ,> k _.Br  ~~~'';     __
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ,                                                                                                    4.-
PERUMPEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            .w
A, t.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



IBRD 18066
INDONESIA
\A  \    t NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PANJANG
FACILITIES
\ PAVING AND UTILITIES
EXISTINC FACILITtES
\r 7- \  \   =__ EXISTING FACILITI1S TOBE DEOLISHED
-         \  X  \   ROADS
\\- _ -   ROADS TO E DISMANTLED OR REALIGNED
.-.4----.-4  ,RAILWAYS
ANIID PARKgNej~   AREA TO IL RECLAS        +--4- -I-+   RAILWAYS TO BE DISMANTLED
-.--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AREATO ECOMPLETED        ,                I
UJNDEN EPIW PROJIECT 
1 -                _ _  _    _ _  _    _  _ _
URmR
L0   10D    2110 3D    4DD    50D.                          \                      
_MALATIIIA                                                   uN       \b \\                                             1
Z,                                         iHuri         c           kwT_a_e_ 13 No\
MALAIAVA                 i                               SW       * /t, N
:   r    .; -                 -; AUEIA N                         d   ION"   _
SULAWEM                I~~~~ uwd aM SIn 1mLw  Elm.
-     IIAIJ AVYA     0.g w,d .0 .pI. - 9 NW
. . X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .l 2.. ,,pp  TllOMELI 
:                                                                                                                              JANUARY 1985
-      - -              -  ~~~~~----AIUTrRAUA
JANUARY 1985



[ORD 1SOg
ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN
/   /t'>27XRt  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
NATIONAL PORTS DNEVAENLAOPMENT PFROJEC_ f  | r
PROJECT ARIEAS ;>'->-
';   ,       ~~~~~~~~EXISTINti SHEDS  1_                       i           De        m 
, am -    ISDATHS IN METERS r  EOMLSi        
. * ~ROADS /  .-/7*
rB :- i *-   -2                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUAliY INS5



IBRD  I 8068
A |                                                    |
--*                     KALAN            .     I
~~~~~~* ' D H   -.-<. g;.> JAVA  -  '''
so~/                                      *         > t          AI                     0 us;,L~t#'' ow roo                                                                      e I
rft ftU An 'Ir Oat5 udh*
Mi1< Ali aiNI 5.! ft !*,
INI wel I                                 /                                                     Xi'
*     A NftSWofINI V.waIN
SE  /hft |fh#   I' WM
alftSS  mm i ,N 9r4. - ft
Di ibNI.Nro    -r to
WAV. ftp  1 NV L
;  .  .  ; -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:7                                                                                 .-r-. $. . -. ... .:-.-;=
ANISMOJ                                                                                                            1YJ5A
AIALPORTS DEVELOPMENT PRJC.., 4
I ~g*...  IISTI       PROJECTtIE.,..'  * ,,
-l.!---!W?SIN?IONL TELUK            SS AYUR 
A                                                                             1*  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  
uNLOADINaIUININD  g                    .3,.,~~~AVIN  AN)          **ilt
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
CARGOWCAIBe            JTH.                                                *   -*    **            .1 -
DANGEA0115 tAgGO UNTH~~~ANURY   95



INDONESIA                                                                                                         S                 . .
NATIONAL PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PALEMBANG
Pro .O.t  A....
usbdnr Shoas                                                                                                                   Xd  f      
i       4Bildiqa                                                                     I                            J      (
r= 5 tiqstn  Buildiap  To Be Otm. ilthl.ed
aRadi To No Romrod
*'-   I.IIIOfi.b  rttr                                                                                                               _ J447 4."  -   SUtt
-,tL
B oItAiX STRU                          . _
S I   R I V, E 
,4r X ,^ ~- , ! ,'.                    ",                                        '                         ',                       'J. . .  *. .
JANUARY 19B5



IS I AD7
. r-.,          4-- :: tNOONIEIA: .X* 
l}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. -
%tt4JWJr w    h- t   'U* se          p -                  l             s \ -  .. .  JlAVAe       _       Ati*'TS DEVELOPMENTa PROJECT
|  0  .r.; .^} . to * s. J. 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
. X 4 _ ,' 7 7; 1. 1- 7,. 1.-
N%
..~~~~ . -  'a                                            NN,                                                             XSnGZIDNST EDMLE
1111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI.1
N.'
-  Ja~~PAIOJECTAMIEAM
-ACCESS ROADS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
N  <5k'                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR IMPROVED
N                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EX(ISTING SHEDS
I                  L.....J :~~~~~~EXSTNG SUILDINGS OSE DEMOLISED
I                                           I                            ----.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~O    45    m                    un
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wn
p. *,. 
PERAYIN



