Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15725
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETTON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1972-YDR)
June 13, 1996
Human Resources Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemenii Dinar (YD)
(at time of appraisal)
I US$ = 0.34 YD
2.94 US$ - IYR
Currency Unit = Yeineti Riyal (YR)
(at time of project completion)
I US$= 100 YR
0.01 US$= I YR
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Republic of Yemen uses the metric system of weights and measures
ABBREVIATIONS
FP            Family Planning
HG            Health Guide
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
MOPH         Ministry of Public Health
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PDRY         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PHC           Primary Health Care
PHCU         Primary Health Care Unit
P119          Project Implementation Unit
ROY           Republic of Yemen
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TBA          Traditional Birth Attendant
TS'I'        Training and Supervision Team
USAID         United States' Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization
YAR           Yemen Arab Republic
YR            Yemeni Riyal



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE,ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1972-YDR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ................................................................................ i
Evaluation Summary.i
Introduction.i
Project Objectives ,,.                                                                        
lmplementation Experience and Results.,,,ii
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations.'iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment.l
Introduction.l
Project Objectives.l
Implementation Experience and Results.7
Achievement of Objectives.2
Project Design., ,4
Sustainability.5
Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Achievement of Objectives.5
Actual Costs, Financing Arrangements, and Implementation Timetable.6i
Bank and Borrower Performance.6)
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations.7
Findings and Key Lessons Learned.,, 
Future Operations.7
Part lu.  Statistical Annexes.....................................                                 9
Table 1. Summary of Assessments..............................,,,.9
TIable 2. Related Bank Credits,,.,,.,10n
Table 3. Project Timetable 0.
T    able 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual. . 
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation                    . .
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation. 2 
Table 7. Studies Included in Projection ...............................I ,
Table 8A. Project Costs.13 '
Tabl     e 8B . Project Financing...............................................,,. , , . i .4
T    able 9. Economic Co sts and Benefits .............................................,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,.........,,,.,,.....,...,.....2
Table 10. S       tatu s of Legal Covenants . ........                                  ,, .........2
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statement         s        . ................................I ,
T   able 12. B ank Resou rces: Staff Inputs.16 .................................6
Table 13. Bank   Resources: Missions .......................... 7.,,,,,,,,,,,......, .. , .17
Appendixes             A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map
|This documnent has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their    l
| official duties. Ius contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.  I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1972-YDR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Health Development
Project (Cr. 1972-YDR) in the Republic of Yemen, for which a credit of US$4.5 million (SDR 3.5
million) was approved on December 13, 1988 and made effective on September 22, 1989.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1995, 18 months after the original closing date (June
30, 1994). The project account is expected to be closed by July 31, 1996, at which time a balance of
US$72,400 (SDR 50,245.6) is expected to be canceled.'
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Gail Richardson (Health Specialist, MN2HR) of the Middle
East and North Africa Region and reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy (Chief, MN2HR) and Ms.
Tufan Kolan (Acting Project Advisor, MN2DR). The peer reviewer was Mr. Albert Sales (Public
Health Specialist, MN2HR).
This ICR is based on material in the project file. Supplementary information and data were
collected during the Bank's final supervision/project completion mission (April 6 to 11, 1996)
(Appendix A). The Borrower contributed to this ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the
project's preparation and implementation experience (Appendix B).
1.44US$= I SDR was the exchange rate applied. As of June 11, 1996, the only disbursement activity
pending is resolution and closure of the project's Special Account.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1972-YDR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.1    The Second Health Development Project was developed as a continuation of IDA's involvement in
the health sector of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) within the framework of the
national health development plan. The First Health Sector Development Project (Cr. 1 377-YDR) targeted
the improvement of health status in three of the six govemorates of the PDRY, while the Second Health
Development Project was to focus on the remaining underserved areas of the country where 17 percent of
2
the population resided.
Project Objectives
1.2    The principal objectives of the project were to improve the health status and quality of health
services. Specifically, the project was designed to: (i) support the upgrading and extension of primary
health care in the governorates of Shabwa, Al Mahra and the island districts of Socrota and Perim; (ii)
develop and upgrade health manpower in these areas; (iii) promote family planning and health education
throughout the (former) PDRY; and (iv) strengthen the management capabilities of Ministry of Public
Health (MOPH) staff and support decentralization of MOPH's administration. The original objectives of
the project were consistent with the Government's Third Five Year Plan for the period 1986-1990 which
emphasized the development of primary health care (PHC) services.
1.3    These objectives were to be achieved through:
*  the construction/renovation of about 45 primary health care units (PHCUs), 2 health training
institutes, 2 health directorate offices, and 3 storage facilities for medical supplies;
*  training outreach primary health care workers3 and providing in-service training in maternal
and child health (MCH) and family planning (FP); and
*  the development of management tools (e.g., computerized drug information system) and the
provision of management training.
In November 1993, the project was amended to include the rehabilitation of the air conditioning
system at Gumuriyah Hospital, a major teaching and referral facility (US$1.34 million).4
I      In November 1990, PDRY joined the Yemen Arab Republic to become the Republic of Yemen.
2      The First Health Sector Development Project, closed on December 31, 1989, included the same components and
objectives of the second operation. As described in the Project Completion Report (report no. 9926), it was successfully
implemented within the original timeframe and appraisal costs and was considered to be sustainable if incremental
recurrent funds continued to be made available.
3      Outreach PHC workers included both Health Guides (HGs) (volunteers from the community who were trained to
provide advice and first aid and dispense a few basic drugs) and trained Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs).
4      The amendment was justified as a means to respond to the Govemment's request for assistance following the flooding in
February 1993 and to utilize credit funds which were expected to otherwise go undisbursed.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
1.4    Achievement of Objectives. The physical targets (as described in para. 1.3) were successfully
achieved, although there were significant delays to their completion.5 While it is too early to accurately
measure the extent to which these physical accomplishments have contributed to improving the health
status of the target population, based on a preliminary assessment, the achievement of the specific
objectives can be summarized as follows (additional details are provided in para. 2.6):
(a)    Upgrading primary health care services - partially successful; could be improved (the
PHCUs are operational however services available are limited)
(b)    Developing health manpower - objective substantially achieved (training facilities
functional; substantial number of participants in training program)
(c)    Promoting family planning and health education - negligible achievement of objective
(current supply distribution system for FP supplies is not functional; health education
activities centralized in Sana'a since unification)
(d)    Strengthening MOPH management - negligible achievement of objective (ministry
incorporated into ministerial structure for the unified Yemen; management of resources
remains centralized; limited number of people received management training)
1.5    Project Design. In hindsight, the project design was consistent with the Government's strategy and
the interventions seemed appropriate, given the success of the first project and the social framework and
government-supported systems which favored expansion of infrastructure as the cornerstone for improving
access to PHC services. Experience has shown, however, the importance of assessing and evaluating
alternative models to achieve the same outcome to ensure that the most cost effective option available is
implemented. Given the extremely remote and isolated areas targeted under the project, alternative models
to the costly expansion and operation of infrastructure should have been considered, such as using existing
infrastructure, supporting mobile teams, etc. Additionally, greater attention should have been placed on
how PHC services would fit into the health delivery network. Finally, mechanisms for donor coordination
(e.g., establishing a committee for follow-up) and assessing the impact of training programs should have
been included in the project design.
1.6    Sustainability. The current prevailing fiscal constraints prevent the Government from adequately
supporting the provision of decentralized PHC services in remote rural areas, raising the risk that the
objective of upgrading PHC services will not be sustainable. Alternative strategies, such as involving the
community and/or non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the provision of such services, are being
developed. So in principle, the expansion of primary health care objective could be sustained if these
alternative strategies are implemented, using the infrastructure provided through the project. The training
facilities to support the development of health manpower, another project objective, are expected to be
sustainable and valuable.
1.7    Key Factors. Successful implementation was hindered by: (i) the disruption from the unification
process, including the shift from a deliberate social policy and corresponding budget to expand PHC (pre-
Some equipment from eight PHCUs was looted during the Civil War and the medical stores were damaged. The
Govemors have agreed to replace the equipment and make the necessary repairs.



- iii -
unification) to an uncohesive social policy and severe budgetary constraints (post-unification) and
subsequent breakdown in systems (e.g., distribution and supervision) that had been functional in the
PDRY; (ii) the Civil War (May to July, 1994) which effectively stopped project activities for about 8
months; and (iii) the delays in civil works due to the lack of a price escalation clause in the contracts.
1 .8    Actual Costs, Financing Arrangements, and Implementation Timetable. The cost of implementing
the Government/IDA portion of the project is expected to amount to US$5.5 million compared with an
6
appraisal estimate of US$6.8 million.  In terms of disbursement, the project was successful (about 98
percent disbursed). Implementation largely did not follow the timetables as described in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) due to the factors listed above (para. 1.7).
1.9    Bank and Borrower Performance. The performance of the Bank was satisfactory during
preparation and implementation of the project. The Borrowers performance was satisfactory, largely due
to the capabilities and experience of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). While the delays to project
implementation can largely be attributed to factors beyond the control of the PIU and the MOPH, both the
Bank and the Government should have agreed upon an acceptable solution to the contract price escalation
issue in a more timely fashion.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations
1.10   Findings and Lessons Learned. The key findings and lessons learned can be summarized as
follows: (i) the current fiscal constraints and lack of resources allocated to lower level health services limit
the Government's ability to support the provision of PHC services; alternative cost-effective strategies are
needed; (ii) there is a minimum package of inputs required for the effective delivery of health services
(e.g., a reliable drug and medical supply distribution system, appropriately trained staff) which must be
operational for implementation of health programs to be successful; (iii) women are more likely to seek
care if a female health worker is available so their participation as health providers should be encouraged;
(iv) appropriate incentive systems (e.g., for Health Guides (HGs)) is critical for sustainability; (v)
community participation can also support sustainability and should be encouraged; (vi) training programs
should be located near the community to encourage the participation of women; (vii) including a specific
mechanism for follow-up with other donors will facilitate monitoring the achievement of objectives; and
(viii) delays in implementation hamper the achievement of project objectives. Similarly, revised output
indicators should be formulated if there are significant implementation delays.
1. I I   Future Operations. Future operations should take into account the following: (i) shifting the role
of MOPH in sector development towards planning and policy development, regulation, and public health.
Similarly, the participation of the private sector, communities, and NGOs in the provision of services
should be encouraged; (ii) improving MCH and FP services should continue to be a priority; (iii) the lack
of critical inputs for the health delivery system (e.g., an effective drug and supply distribution system,
appropriate incentives for service providers) should be addressed; (iv) communities should be consulted on
the type and level of inputs to be provided; (vi) data for decision making should be developed; and (vii)
inter-sectoral collaboration should be supported.
6      Since there was no mechanism for monitoring the contribution from other donors (US$1.1 million appraisal estimate), it
is difficult to assess their financial contribution to the achievement of project objectives. The value of the Government's
actual financial contribution is estimated to be about 12 million YR (US$1 million). Due to the fluctuations in exchange
rate, converting this figure to US dollars is problematic. Because IUS$ = 12YR was the official exchange rate for most
of the project implementation period, this rate has been applied to convert the Government's contribution. This amount
overstates the actual financing provided by the Government as compared with the market rate of exchange. The project
account is expected to be closed by July 31, 1996.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1972-YDR)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
2.1    The Second Health Development Project was developed as a continuation of IDA's
involvement in the health sector of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) within the
framework of the national health development plan.' The First Health Sector Development Project
(Cr. 1377-YDR) targeted the improvement of health status in three of the six govemorates of the
PDRY, while the Second Health Development Project was to focus on the remaining underserved
areas of the country where 17 percent of the population resided. The First Health Sector
Development project was so successfully implemented that no major implementation problems were
expected for the follow-up project.2
Project Objectives
2.2    The principal objectives of the project were to improve the health status and quality of health
services. Specifically, the project was designed to: (i) support the upgrading and extension of
primary health care in the govemorates of Shabwa, Al Mahra and the island districts of Socrota and
Perim; (ii) develop and upgrade health manpower in these areas; (iii) promote family planning and
health education throughout the (former) PDRY; and (iv) strengthen management capabilities of
MOPH staff and support decentralization of MOPH's administration.
2.3    These objectives were to be achieved through:
* the construction/renovation of about 45 primary health care units (PHCUs), 2 health
training institutes, 2 health directorate offices, and 3 storage facilities for medical
supplies;
1      In November 1990, PDRY joined the Yemen Arab Republic to become the Republic of Yemen.
2      The First Health Sector Development Project, closed on December 31, 1989, included the same
components and objectives of the second operation. As described in the Project Completion Report (report
no. 9926), it was successfully implemented within the original timeframe and appraisal costs and was
considered to be sustainable if incremental recurrent funds continued to be made available.



-2 -
*  training outreach primary health care (PHC) workers3 and providing in-service training
in maternal and child health (MCH) and family planning (FP); and
* the development of management tools (e.g., computerized drug information system) and
the provision of management training.
In November 1993, the project was amended to include the rehabilitation of the air
conditioning system at Gumuriyah Hospital, a major teaching and referral facility (US$1.34
million).4
2.4    The original objectives of the project were consistent with the Government's Third Five Year
Plan for the period 1986-1990 which emphasized the development of PHC services. The Plan
focused on expanding and upgrading rural health infrastructure and resources, improving the quality
of PHC, upgrading staff, decentralizing management, and strengthening community involvement in
health promotion (e.g., expanding the use of volunteer health guides (HGs)).
Implementation Experience and Results
2.5    Achievement of Objectives. The physical targets were successfully achieved, although there
were significant delays to their completion. Forty-five PHCUs were constructed/rehabilitated and
equipped, a health training institute was constructed and additional classrooms added to another,
three medical supply storage facilities and offices for two regional health directorates were
constructed, and the air conditioning system at Gumuriyah Hospital was rehabilitated.
2.6    While it is too early to accurately measure the extent to which these physical
accomplishments have contributed to improving the health status of the target population, based on a
preliminary assessment, the achievement of the specific objectives can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Upgrading Primary Health Care Services. The achievement of this objective was
partially successful and could be improved (see para. 2.8). All 45 PHCUs
constructed/rehabilitated under the project have staff and are operational.5 In terms
of their effectiveness as a means to expand access to PHC services, the number of
patients being treated per day at the PHCUs varies from 2 to 20, which suggests that
more people now have access to primary services. However, a survey of the
catchment population found that, on average, 60 percent of the people thought that
the services provided by the PHCUs were insufficient to meet their basic needs and
the facilities were found to be providing about half of the services which they were
Outreach PHC workers included both Health Guides (HGs) (volunteers from the community who were
trained to provide advice and first aid and dispense a few basic drugs) and trained Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBAs).
This amendment was justified as a means for IDA to respond to the Government's request for assistance
following the flood in February 1993 and to utilize uncommitted credit funds.
Some equipment from eight PHCUs was looted during the Civil War and the medical stores were damaged.
The Governors have agreed to replace the equipment and make the necessary repairs,



- 3 -
expected to provide.6 Reasons for these shortcomings include: (i) not having
adequate medical supplies and pharmaceuticals. Prior to unification, the PDRY had
a well functioning distribution network which has deteriorated dramatically during
the transition to a unified Yemen; and (ii) unavailability of female staff. In general,
Yemeni women are less likely to seek care if a female health worker is not available.
Strengthening outreach from the PHCUs to the community level was successful prior
to unification. Although 200 HGs were trained and were providing outreach services
at the community level, they are no longer formally providing such services because
they were not remunerated, lacked supplies, and were no longer receiving support
from the Training and Supervision Teams (TSTs).7 TBAs, who receive a salary from
the Government and private payments, are largely still working in the community.
(b)    Developing Health Manpower. This objective was substantially achieved.
Particularly to encourage the participation of women by providing training closer to
their community, a new health training institute was constructed and another institute
expanded. The institute was designed to train midwives (15 per year) and nurses (30
per year), and provide other in-service training programs as needed. Classes are
scheduled to start during 1996 in the new institute and the additional classrooms are
currently in use. It is expected that more women will now have access to training,
and the availability of female staff will subsequently be increased. In addition, an in-
service training program was implemented under the project, emphasizing PHC, FP,
and preventive medicine. The in-service training program was largely successful in
terms of the total number of people trained (about 150) and the ability of the project
to adjust the training program to reflect priority needs. However, no assessment of
the quality of the training provided and the impact it may have had on the provision
of services was conducted, although it is generally accepted that any training will
improve the skills of the participants.
(c)    Promoting Family Planning and Health Education. The achievement of this
objective was negligible. Sixteen workshops on the importance of family planning
were conducted, drawing together religious and community leaders, health care
providers and administrators, although their impact was not assessed. The
breakdown in the supply distribution system (see 2.9 (a)) would suggest that the
Government-sponsored efforts to expand the availability of FP supplies have been
largely unsuccessful. A contraceptive prevalence survey was also completed at the
beginning of the project to establish a baseline. A similar survey, with support from
USAID, is under preparation for the Republic of Yemen (ROY) and should be a
The specific services available varies from one unit to the next. For example, some facilities reported not
being able to provide vaccinations (lack of supplies) and/or prenatal services (female staff not available).
Source: "Project Assessment Study"; the survey is not representative of the population therefore the results
are only indicative; (March 1996).
According to the "Assessment of the Effectiveness of Health Guides" study (December 1995) completed
under the project, after unification, HGs became disillusioned when they realized that their counterparts
from the former YAR were remunerated. This, coupled with the breakdown in the distribution and
supervision systems, were cited as the primary reasons why they stopped working as health guides.



- 4 -
useful tool for measuring current attitudes towards, and use of, contraceptives. There
is no information about whether the in-service training in FP or fellowships, which
were to be supported by other donors, were conducted because the project design did
not include a mechanism for donor coordination and after unification, donor
programs were largely revised. With respect to health education, prior to unification,
the health education program was successful. The equipment provided to the Aden
Health Education Directorate allowed it to develop appropriate and well received
health education messages. After unification, Sana'a became the headquarters for the
Health Education Directorate, leaving the health education office in Aden with
limited equipment and authority for developing national health education programs.
(d)    Strengthening MOPH Management. There is no indication that management of
MOPH has been strengthened or decentralized. The MOPH of the PDRY was
incorporated into the managerial structure of the unified Yemen, essentially
nullifying its capacity to be strengthened as an entity. Management of resources and
health services post-unification is centralized, leaving little authority or management
responsibility for the staff using the two directorate offices which were constructed
under the project to facilitate decentralization. Computerization of the drug
information system was initiated with support from WHO, although since unification
the emphasis has been on developing a comprehensive drug information system for
the unified country. Fifty-three people participated in management-related training
courses and 4 management-related fellowships were awarded. Although the impact
of the training on the improvement of sectoral management was not assessed, the
limited number of participates would suggest that the overall impact will be
negligible. Data for the health manpower needs assessment was collected and
incorporated into an assessment completed for the ROY. The other management-
related study, assessing the effectiveness of PHC workers was completed, although
its results were not available until the end of project implementation period. It is
expected that its findings will be incorporated into future sector planning.
2.7    Project Design. In hindsight, there was perhaps too much confidence that the successful
implementation of the First Health Sector Development Project would continue under the second
operation. A key difference between the two projects is that the second one targeted even more
remote and isolated areas which had primitive health services if they had any services at all.8
Although at the time it was generally accepted that constructing units in each community was
important for improving basic health services, and the appropriate social framework and
government-supported systems (e.g., for supply distribution) appear to have been in place,
alternatives to the costly expansion and operation of infrastructure should have been considered,
such as using existing infrastructure, supporting mobile teams, etc. Experience has shown the
importance of assessing and evaluating alternative models to achieve the same outcome to ensure
that the most cost effective option available is implemented. Additionally, greater attention should
have been placed on how PHC services would fit into the health delivery network. Finally, a
mechanism for donor coordination should have been included in the project design (e.g., establishing
a committee for follow-up) as well as a mechanism for assessing the impact of training programs.
8      For example, two PHCUs were constructed to replace the existing units which were housed in caves.



2.8   Sustainability. The prevailing fiscal constraints which prevent the Government from
adequately supporting the provision of PHC services in remote rural areas raises the risk that the
objective of upgrading PHC services will not be sustainable. Alternative strategies, such as
involving the community and/or non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the provision of such
services, are being developed. So in principle, the expansion of primary health care objective could
be sustained if these alternative strategies are implemented, using the infrastructure provided through
the project. The training facilities to support the development of health manpower, another project
objective, are expected to be sustainable and valuable.
2.9    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and the Achievement of Project Objectives
(a)    Unification. The achievement of project objectives was more successful prior to
unification. When the PDRY and Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) unified, Sana'a
became the capital of the Republic of Yemen and the seat of government. The
transition brought with it social and economic uncertainty. Unified administrative
and management systems are still being developed, and those that were in place in
the PDRY have been largely dismantled. This affected implementation in a number
of key areas. With unification came a shift from a deliberate social policy and
corresponding budget to expand PHC (pre-unification) to an uncohesive social policy
and severe budgetary constraints (post-unification). The supply distribution system
that had been functional in the PDRY broke down and has not yet been replaced,
leaving the peripheral health units with only sporadic deliveries of needed supplies
(including those for family planning services) and pharmaceuticals. With the change
in budget processes and available resources, the training and supervision teams no
longer had the resources to support the peripheral units and outreach health workers
(HGs and TBAs). Further, as noted in para. 2.6 (c), Sana'a became the headquarters
for the Health Education Directorate, reducing the role of the health education office
in Aden. Additionally, the Public Building Corporation (owned by the government
of PDRY and the principal contractor for the project's civil works program) defaulted
on numerous contracts, which resulted in their having to be rebid.
(b)   -)Y. The Gulf War (August 1991 to March 1992) resulted in a massive return of
migrant workers from the Gulf states which placed additional strains on the
Government's ability to finance social services, including health services. Perhaps
more relevant for this project, the Civil War (May to July, 1994) effectively shut
down all project activities and several project-financed facilities were looted (8
health units and two medical stores).
(c)    Price Escalation. Most of the delay in completing civil works activities can be
attributed to the lack of a price escalation clause and rapid inflation which caused
many contractors to stop work altogether until an agreed upon amendment to the
contract could be developed. This issue affected implementation in all sectors with
which the Bank is involved. It took the Bank and the Government about 18 months
to come up with a solution that was acceptable to all parties concerned.



- 6 -
2.10   Actual Costs, Financing Arrangements, and Implementation Timetable. The cost of
implementing the Government/IDA portion of the project is expected to amount to about US$5.5
million compared with an appraisal estimate of US$6.8 million.9 Since there was no mechanism for
monitoring the contribution from other donors (US$1.1 million appraisal estimate), it is difficult to
assess their financial contribution to the achievement of the project objectives (see para. 2.7). In
terms of disbursement, the project was successful (about 98 percent disbursed). Implementation
largely did not follow the timetables as described in the SAR due to unforeseen circumstances such
as unification, the Civil War, and rapid inflation.
2.11   Bank and Borrower Performance. The performance of the Bank was satisfactory in terms of
developing a project that was consistent with the sector strategy at that time (see para. 2.7 for
additional comments on project design). During implementation, the Bank worked with the
Borrower to adjust the project to meet the current needs (e.g., revising the management training
program and incorporating the rehabilitation of the air conditioning system). The Bank also
provided for two extensions of the project to provide the Borrower with sufficient time to complete
implementation, which had been slowed due to extenuating circumstances. Supervision missions
were consistently launched except during times of political unrest. The Borrowers performance was
satisfactory, largely due to the Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) experience in implementing
Bank projects. The PIU was well organized, thorough, and careful to ensure that Bank guidelines
were followed. While the delays to project implementation can largely be attributed to factors
beyond the control of both the PIU and the MOPH, both the Bank and the Government should have
agreed upon an acceptable solution to the contract price escalation issue in a more timely fashion.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations
2.12   Findings and Lessons Learned. The key findings and lessons learned can be summarized as
follows:
(a)    The Government as provider of PHC services. The current fiscal constraints and lack
of resources allocated to lower level health services limit the Government's ability to
supportthe provision of PHC services, particularly given the costly nature of
providing services to such isolated communities. Alternative cost-effective strategies
are needed, including increased participation of both non-government providers and
beneficiaries in the sector's development. With regard to health system development,
particular attention must be given to how the pieces (e.g., PHC) fit into the whole.
(b)    Critical inputs. There is a minimum package of inputs required for the effective
delivery of health services. These inputs include a reliable drug and medical supply
distribution system, appropriately trained staff, supervision mechanisms, incentives,
equipment, health education, and a referral network. All must be operational for
9
The value of the Government's actual contribution is estimated to be about 12 million YR (US$1 million).
Due to the fluctuations in exchange rate, converting this figure to US$ is problematic. Because I US$ =
12YR was the official exchange rate for most of the project implementation period, this rate has been
applied to convert the Government's contribution. It is expected that this amount overstates the actual
financing provided by the Government. The project account is expected to be closed by July 31, 1996.



- 7 -
implementation of health programs to be efficient and successful. For example, a
principal reason cited for not utilizing PHCUs was the unavailability of drugs.
(c)    Female health care providers. A woman is generally more likely to seek care if a
female health worker is available. Efforts to encourage their participation in the
provision of health services should be given priority.
(d)    Incentives. A principal reason that the health guides who were trained under the
project stopped providing services was because they were no longer interested in
continuing as volunteers. Including appropriate incentive systems is critical for
sustainability.
(e)    Community participation. Community participation should be encouraged as a tool
for improving project sustainability and quality. There are several examples of how
greater community commitment to the project might have improved the project
outcomes. If the community had felt a sense of ownership for the health facilities,
they would have been more likely to work together to solve problems on their own
(e.g., coordinating the pick-up of drugs from distant stores). Additionally, if the
community had been involved in determining which services were to be provided by
the health guides, it is more likely that they would have been willing to pay for these
services, and assuming responsibility for the HGs remuneration when the HGs
decided they could no longer provide volunteer services.
(f)    Training programs. Social norms limit the ability of women to participate in training
programs if it involves traveling. Decentralizing training programs so that they are
located near the community should facilitate the participation of women.
(g)    Donor coordination. Incorporating specific mechanisms for donor coordination can
facilitate collaboration in the achievement of shared project objectives.
(h)    Monitoring outcomes. Since most civil works activities were not completed until the
last year of project implementation, it was difficult to measure their impact on the
achievement of project objectives.
2.13   Future Operations. Future operations should take into account the following:
(a)    The shifting role of the MOPH. MOPH's role in sector development should focus in
particular on: (i) developing policies; (ii) sector planning and coordination (including
monitoring and evaluation); (iii) regulation; and (iv) ensuring public health programs
are available to the population. The trend should be towards decreasing the role of
the MOPH in the direct provision of services while increasing the participation of the
private sector, communities, and NGOs.
(b)    Streamlining the MOPH. The governmental structure for the ROY is still in its
formative stages. Priority areas for development include: (i) revising the budgetary
procedures; (ii) decentralizing management (including the provision of appropriate



- 8 -
management tools); and (iii) tailoring the number and expertise of public sector
employees to match the Government's revised role in sector development.
(c)    Maternal and child health. Future operations should continue to place a high priority
on improving maternal and child health and family planning services. The total
fertility rate for the ROY is one of the highest in the world (7.5 births per woman),
family planning activities are minimal, and maternal and infant mortality rates are
high by any standards (800-1,000 per 100,000 live births and 117 deaths per 1,000
live births, respectively).
(d)    Critical inputs. The lack of critical inputs for the health delivery system (e.g., an
effective drug and supply distribution system, appropriate incentives for service
providers) should be addressed.
(e)    Community participation. Communities should be consulted on the type and level of
inputs to be provided.
(f)    Data for decision making. Attention should be given to the development of accurate
and reliable information and data collection systems as a tool to be used for policy
development and better monitoring sector development.
(g)    Inter-sectoral collaboration. A critical issue underlying the health status of the
Yemeni population, particularly the high prevalence of diarrheal disease, is
unsatisfactory water and sanitation. Additionally, there is a high correlation between
education and health status. These, and other determinants of health status, support
the need for improved cross-sectoral collaboration.



Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial   Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                               X
Sector policies                                  X
Financial objectives                                                         X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                            X
Gender issues                                    X
Other social objectives                          X
Environmental objectives                                                     X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development                                                   x
B. Project Sustainability              Likely         Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                   X
Preparation assistance                           X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                   X
Preparation assistance                           X
Appraisal                                        x
Supervision                                      X
E. Assessment of Outcomes        Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient  Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 10-
Table 2. Related Bank Credits
Credit Title           Purpose                   Year of Approval           Status
Preceding Operations
1. Cr. 1377-YDR        Expand primary                 1983               Closed 12/89
Health Sector          health care services
Development Project    (southern region)
2. Cr. 1294-YAR        MOPH institutional             1982               Closed 6/89
First Health Project   development
(northern region)
3. Cr. 215  -YAR       Expansion of MOPH's            1990             Scheduled to close
Health Sector          institutional                                     on 12/31/96
Development Project    development
(northern region)
4. Cr. 2525-YEM        Improve MCH/FP                 1993             Ongoing; date of
Family Health Project   services; improve                             effectiveness: 9/94
management
effectiveness
Following Operations
1. Social Fund         Reduce poverty         Board Date: June 1997   Under preparation
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    Date Planned  Date Aclual/Latest Estimate
Initial EPS                        ---          December 31, 1986
Preparation            November 1987               November 1987
Appraisal                  March 1988                  March 1988
Negotiations                 July 1988             September 1988
Board Presentation        October 1988          December 13, 1988
Signing                            ---           February 23, 1989
Effectiveness                      ---          September 22, 1989
Project Completion       June 30, 1994          December 31, 1995
Loan Closing          October 31, 1994              April 30, 1996



Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90     FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96
Appraisal
Estimate             0.80      1.80      3.30      4.20      4.40      4.50
Actual               0.40     0.40       1.18      1.74      2.63      3.51       4.43
Actual as a % of     0.50     0.22       0.36      0.41      0.60      0.78       0.98
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: Expected to be by July 31, 1996 (closing of Special Account pending)
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicator                 Estimated    Actual
1. Indicators from SAR
Construction of health units                      19       21
Renovation of health units                        26       23
Construction of medical storage facilities         3        3
Construction of health directorate facilities      2        2
Construction of manpower training institute        1         1
Construction additional classrooms                 I         I
Health guides in project areas trained           200      200
Training in midwifery/family planning            123      123
Family planning workshops                         16       16
Maintenance staff trained                         10       10
II. Modified Indicators
Number of staff trained in:
administration                                  20       20
statistics/computer skills                      31       31
nutrition                                       12        12
bio-medical maintenance                          6         6



- 12 -
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Continued)
Key Implementation Indicator                          Estimated           Actual
II. Modified Indicators (continued)
Number of fellowships for:
Community health                                                I
Health management                                               I
MCH management                                                 2                  2
Units constructed under project provided with:
equipment                                      within 3 months        equipment
of completion of       generally
staff                                          construction            available
female staff not
always
available
consistent supply of drugs and other
consumables                                                         sporadic supply
of consumables
Notes: (i) Several of the training indicators included in the SAR were to be supported and
monitored by other donors. Information on the number of people trained by other
donors is not available.
(ii) "Modified indicators" represent the agreed upon changes to the training program
and other indicators developed to measure project implementation.
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicator             Estimated               Actual
Establishment of the PIU                 By effectiveness        By effectiveness
Opening of the Special Account           By effectiveness        By effectiveness
Civil works completed                         March 1992          December 1995
Equipment installed                           March 1992          December 1995
Local training completed                       June 1993            October 1995
Fellowships completed                         March 1993               April 1995
Studies completed                             March 1992          December 1995
Accounts audited                     By June of each year   By June of each year
Annual progress report                             Yearly                  Yearly
Note: The audit report was submitted late in 1994 because of the Civil War.



- 13 -
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose                  Status                  Impact of Study
I. Effectiveness of     Determine relevance     Completed - December   No direct impact on
P1-IC workers           of training and          1995                    project (completed too
effectiveness of                                 late in project
services provided by                             implementation);
PHC workers                                      expected to be used as
tool for strengthening
PHC and community
participation in future
operations
2. Analysis of health   Facilitate planning of    Data for southern      No direct impact to date
manpower requirements  human resource            region collected and
development             incorporated into ROY
national survey
3. Project assessment   Conduct thorough         Completed - April 1996   Provided valuable
assessment of extent                            insight into
to which project                                 effectiveness of
achieved objectives                              project
Table 8A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
- Appraisal Estimate -             - Actual -
Local      Foreign   Total  Local       Foreign   Total
Item                     Costs      Costs              Costs     Costs
1. Civil Works           2.42       1.98      4.41    1.70        1.39      3.09
2. Equipment             0.07        0.65      0.72    0.20       1.75      1.95
3. Technical Assistance   0.13      0.24       0.37    0.08       0.13      0.21
4. Local Training        0.39        0.00      0.39    0.20       0.00      0.20
5. Recurrent Costs       0.57       0.26       0.83    0.05       0.00      0.05
6. Contingencies         0.64       0.53       1.15
TOTAL             4.22       3.66      7.87    2.23        3.27      5.50
Note: Information on other donors' contributions to the cost of the project are not available.
Therefore, the "actual" costs of the project include only IDA's and the Government's
contribution to the total project costs. IDA's contribution will be finalized by July 31, 1996.



- 14 -
Table 8B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                  Appraisal             Actual
I ____________________   Estim ate
IDA                        4.5                 4.5
Government                 2.3                 1.0
SUBTOTAL                 6.8                 5.5
Other Donors               1.1              unknown
TOTAL                    7.9
Note: The value of the Government's actual contribution is
estimated to be about 12 million YR (US$1 million). Due to
the fluctuations in exchange rate, converting this figure to
US$ is problematic. Because IUS$ = 12YR was the official
exchange rate for most of the project implementation period,
this rate has been applied to convert the Government's
contribution. It is expected that this amount overstates the
actual financing provided by the Government. IDA's
contribution is expected to be finalized by July 31, 1996.
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
(not calculated for this operation)



- 15 -
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Text        Covenant Status  Original        Revised Fulfill    Description of Covenant          Comments
Reference   Class              Fulfill Date   Dale
Sec. 3.01    10        CP      By            At effectiveness   For purposes of coordinating the    Regional health
effectiveness                   execution of the project, the     directorates were never
Borrower shall (i) maintain the  formally designated as
PIU and provide it with the      project implementation
resources and qualified          units. This does not
experienced staff required for this  appear to have
Upon          Construction      purpose; and (ii) cause the       negatively affected
completion    completed;        regional health directorate to act as implementation.
of            regional          regional project implementation
construction   directorates not    units and provide them with the
of health     designated as     resources and qualified
directorate    regional PlUs    experienced staff required for this
offices                         purpose.
Sec. 3.03    10       CP       6/30/92        12/31/95          The Borrower shall (a) not later    Health manpower study
than 6/30/92 furnish to IDA for  was incorporated into
review and comment, the findings   ROY national
and recommendations of the       assessment; assessment
studies under part D4 of the     of PHCW was
project; and (b) not later than  completed in
12/31/92, based on such review,    December 1995
prepare and finalize an action plan,
satisfactory to IDA on the
measures to be taken by the
Borrower to implementel
recommendations.
Sec. 4.01    1         C       continual                        The Borrower shall maintain or    All records were
(a)                                                             cause to be maintained records and  maintained by the PIU
accounts adequate to reflect in  in Aden.
accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the
project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carring out the
project or any part thereof.
Sec. 4.01    1         C       annually      annually           The Borrower shall have the      The only significant
(bi)                                                            records and accounts including    delay in the submission
those of the special account for  of audit reports
each fiscal year audited, in     occurred during the
accordance with appropriate      Civil War
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
Notes: C = Complied with; CP = Complied with partially; I = Accounts/Audit. 10 = Implementation



- 16 -
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks and US$'000)
Stage of Project Cycle     Planned            Revised            Actual
Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal   ---    ---      ---       ---     36.7      101.3
Appraisal                ---      ---      ---       ---      14.5     39.9
Negotiations Through     ---      ---       ---      ---      5.90     16.4
Board Approval
Supervision              ---      ---      64.1     195.6    55.9      192.3
Completion              ---       ---       7.8      17.2    7.80      14.0
Total                    ---      ---      ---       ---     120.8    363.9



-17-
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
SJage of          Monthl    Number of    Days in    Specialized Staff          Performance Rating'          Types of Problems"'
project cycle      Year       Persons       Field          Skills
Represented                                                           l
Implementation    Development
Status         Objectives
Through          11/87         2           14         PH, AR
Appraisal        3/88          3           14         PH,PS,AR
6/88         1            4         00
Appraisal                                             00. AR, PS, Pll
Through Board
Approval
Supervision      06/89         I            3         00                      I                I                              l
10/89         1           7          PH                     I                 I
01/90         2           4          PH, AR                 I                 I                              l
05/91         3           7          ES, AR                 2                 1                 LC
09/91         3           7          ES. AR, HS             2                 1                 CF
11/91         I           4         ES                      2                2
07/92         2           4          ES. HS                 2                 2                              l
11/92        4            4         ES, HS, AR              2                2             TA, DW, DS
01/93         3           4          ES, HS. AR             2                 2                 DW
05/93         I           7          PH                     2                 2                 DW
07/93         3           6          ES, HS, AR             2                 2                DW
01/95         3           5          HS, AR                 2                 1                 DW
05/95         1           2          HS                     I                 I                              l
09/95         2           4          HS                     I                 I 2H
Completion       04/96         I           4          IS
Specialized Staff Skills Represented:
AR:    Architect
EC:    Economist
ES:     Education Specialist
HS:    Health Specialist
00:    Operations Officer
PH:    Public Health Specialist
PS:      Population Specialist
Rating:
I = No Major Problems
2 = Moderate Problems
ii      Types of Problems:
CF = Lack of Counterpart Funds
DW = Delays in Civil Works
DS = Delay in Completing Studies
LC = Lack of Donor Coordination
TA = Trainee Attrition



I                   I           .



Appendix 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IDA HEALTH SECTOR MISSION
APRIL 6-11, 1996
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission visited the Republic of Yemen from April 6-11, 1996 to prepare the
implementation completion report for the Second Health Development Project (Cr. 1972-
YDR). While in the field, the mission reviewed progress made in implementing the Family
Health Project (Cr. 2525-YEM) and the Health Sector Development Project (Cr. 2151-YEM)
in preparation for a more comprehensive supervision mission scheduled for June 1996. The
mission was composed of Ms. Gail Richardson (Health Specialist).
2.    The mission worked in close collaboration with representatives of the Ministry of
Public Health (MOPH) and met with representatives from several of the principal donor
agencies involved in the sector.
3.    This Memorandum of Understanding summarizes the main findings of the mission as
well as the decisions reached and actions agreed upon with respect to implementation of
Credits 2525-YEM and 2151-YEM and finalizing the implementation completion report for
Credit 1972-YDR. Its contents were discussed during wrap-up meetings with representatives
of the MOPH. The findings of the mission are subject to review and confirmation by IDA
management.
4.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the cooperation and hospitality
extended to it by representatives of the MOPH, in particular by the staff of the two Project
Implementation Units (PIUs).
The Second Health Development Project (Cr. 1972-YDR)
*     The Second Health Development Project was closed on December 31, 1995 and
final disbursements will be made by April 30, 1996. Only about US$72,400
credit funds are expected to remain undisbursed. The PIU did an effective job
in implementing the project; they were thorough, well organized, and ensured
that IDA procedures were followed.
Project assessment. The PIU has already prepared and submitted to IDA its
"Borrowers Report", which summarized their assessment of project
implementation. In addition, an end of project assessment is currently being



-2 -                             Appendix 1
prepared which incudes a detailed survey of the project interventions and an
evaluation of their relative effectiveness. Initial findings from the assessment
were shared with the mission and the report will be finalized by the end of April
1996. These reports will supplement the "Implementation Completion Report",
currently being prepared by IDA, which will summarize IDA's perspective of
project implementation and the extent to which the project's objectives were
achieved. A brief summary of the mission's initial assessment of project
implementation is included as Attachment 1. It was agreed that the
Implementation Completion Report, including the Borrower's Report, would be
submitted to the Government for their comment by May 15, 1996.
Audit report It was agreed that the audit report for the project, covering the
period January I to December 31, 1995 would be submitted to IDA by June 30,
1996.
Maintaining the office of the PIU. During the mission's meeting with H.E. the
Minister of Health (see para. 6), the idea of maintaining the office of the PIU to
assist with implementing the Family Health Project activities which will be
going on in the southern region was discussed. The Minister also noted that the
PIU would be assisting with several Government sponsored civil works
programs planned for the area. It is suggested that the Government formally
clarify with the PIU what their future role will be. If they are to be involved
with the Family Health Project, an agreed work program should be developed
in collaboration with the PIU currently operating in Sana 'a.
Current Projects in the Health Sector
5.    The following are the principal findings of mission and agreements reached for further
im -nmentation with respect to the two ongoing operations.
Audit Reports. It was agreed that for both projects, the audit reports would be
submitted by June 30, 1996.
The Family Health Project (Cr. 2525-YEM)
Project Districts. A technical assessment of two of the seven project districts
has been completed by the PIU and submitted to IDA. It was agreed that an
assessment of an additional two districts would to be completed by June 30,
1996 and forwarded to IDA for review. As per the agreements reached during
IDA's September 1995 mission, priority would be given to upgrading the health
services at the district hospital and health center level. Baseline indicators to
measure the impact of project interventions have been developed. It was agreed



-3 -                            Appendix 1
that a copy of these indicators would be submitted to IDA for comment by May
15, 1996.
District Health System. The PIU has taken a leadership role in coordinating the
various donors' efforts to implement the district health system (DHS) model
included in the Family Health Project. To facilitate coordination and to provide
a forum for discussion of the model, the PIU has organized a DHS workshop,
scheduled for May 12-16, 1996. The workshop will draw together
representatives of the Government, donors, and the private sector to discuss
how the DHS model should be implemented to ensure sustainability and
effectiveness. Topics are expected to include selecting appropriate areas for
intervention, encouraging community participation, and defining minimum
needs.
*     Specialized Training. To ensure that staff, particularly in the project districts,
are adequately trained, a proposal for training medical specialists in the areas of
pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, health management, community health,
surgery, and anesthesiology during the period May 1996 to May 1997 was
submitted to the mission. IDA's no objection to the training plan was provided
on April 5, 1996. Agreement to this training program was based on the
following understandings: (i) priority would be given to providing training to
qualified personnel who are already working in the districts which are to be
included in the Family Health Project; (ii) these trainees would be formally
obligated to return to work at the district facility upon completion of the
Waining program; and (iii) necessary training equipment would be procured for
Gumuriyah Hospital, which is expected to serve as a secondary training site.
HeaiUuJnIfrma.tio System. The forms for a national health information system
have been developed. It was agreed that a workshop to review the forms mth
MOPH stafffrom the central and governorate level, and relevant donor
agencies, would be held by May 31, 1996. It was further agreed that the tender
documents for the rehabilitation to be completed at the central HiS directorate
and the researchldocument unt would be submutted to IDA for comment/no
objection by May 31, 1996.
Technical Assise. The bids for five consultancies are under review. It was
agreed that the results of this review would be submitted to IDA for its
comment/no objection by May 15, 1996. The 5nsultants would wor im 
following areas: (i) finalizing the baseline indicators for the project districts and
collecting the relevant data in the first four project districts; (ii) developing the
software and hardware specifications for the health information system; (iii)
stengthening the health education program; (iv) reviewing and consolidating
the training programs provided at the Health Manpower Institutes; and (v)
designing the blood banking program for the project districts.



- 4 -                            Appendix I
Health Education. A list of equipment for the Health Education Directorate was
submitted to IDA in March 1996. It was agreed that IDA would review the
equipment list and the proposed rehabilitation work for the health education
directorate during its next mission when there would be an opportunity to
discuss the current and proposed health education program in greater detail.
*     Fellowships. A plan for the fellowships to be conducted in 1996 was submitted
to IDA on April 1, 1996. It was agreed that cost estimated would be included
and the revised plan submitted to IDA for comment/no objection by May 15,
1996.
Local Training Stipends. It was agreed that to ensure participation,
particularly among women, in the project's workshops and training activities,
the local training stipend would be increased to an amount which reflects
current prices.
*     .Steering Committee. The mission supported the idea that to facilitate
coordination and expedite implementation, a Steering Committee for the Family
Health Project would be formed and include representatives from the MOPH
and MOPD. It was agreed that a proposal for this committee, including the
objectives, composition, and renumeration would be submitted to IDA for its
comment/no objection by May 31, 1996.
The Health Sector Development Project (Cr. 215 1-YEM?
Prosal for extension of the closing date. The Health Sector Development
Project is currently scheduled to close on December 31, 1996. It was agreed
that a proposal for extending the closing date in order to complete the project's
activities would be submitted to IDA by May 31, 1996 for IDA 's consideration!
review. It was further agreed that this proposal would include a rationale for
the extension and a detailed work plan for the activities to be completed during
the extension period.
Revision of Stalled Civil Works Contracts. Four of the six stalled civil works
contracts have been amended to compensate for the lack of price escalation
clause in the original contracts. It was agreed that the remaining two contracts
would be amended by May 31, 1996 and forwarded to IDA by June 15, 1996.
Approval for the amendments should be provided by IDA's Resident Mission.
Sectoral Discusions
6.    The mission met with H.E. the Minister of Health and other senior MOPH staff to get



- 5 -                            Appendix 1
initial feedback to the Health Sector Strategy Note which was prepared by IDA and submitted
to the Government in January 1996. The note is a working paper, prepared as a tool for
discussion with the Government. It was proposed that IDA review the MOPH's recently
issued Five Year Plan in the context of the Strategy Note. It was also suggested that IDA and
the Government could sponsor a workshop, to include representatives from the Government,
private sector, donors, and non-governmental organizations, to develop detailed
implementation and financing plans for the next phase of sectoral development.
Next Mission
7.    The next IDA mission is tentatively scheduled for July 1996.
Washington, DC
June 13, 1996
m:\yem\59 1O\spnfy96\aidememr.apr






RuJLIC  OF YEMEh'
SECOND  HiALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
( CREDIT  1972 YEM )
COIMPLETION REPOHT
PROJQCTr IMF PLEhTATION UNIT
h4LTi DEVBLO}-T PROJI;CTS
31st December 1995                         MINISTRY OF 1-UBLlC UEALxiH,AFikN



SECOiND !MhELTH DEVELOPMENT IROJICT (CR: 1972 YMI )
CO1NITETION REPORT
1.  Background
2. Project Components
3.  Civil Works achievement
4. Training
5. Equipments
6. Financial States as of 31 December 1995, All components
7. Firnancial Status, Civil Worxs
0.  Un-disbursed Commitments



=00,W109,           SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR: 1972 YEN)
1.    BACKGROUND
Project                  Health Development II (Credit 1972 YEM) I.D.A.
Borrower                 Government of the Republic of Yemen
Beneficiery              Ministry of Public Health
Amount of Credit         SDR. 3.5 million
Agreement signed on      23 February 1989
Effective date           Original - 23 May 1989
Actual   - 22 September 1989
Closing date             Original - 30 June 1994
Revised - 31 December 1995
The success of the first Health Development Project (CR: 1377
YDR) in the GovernorateE of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramout convinced
Ministry of Planning & the International Development Associa-:ion
(IDA) to continue the second Health Project for the Governorates of
Shabwa, Al-Mahra and the Islands of Socotra and Perim in the Aden
Governorate with an overall population of 400,000 who would benefit
by an improved health status and quality of life of the target
population, restraining of the progressively escalating demands for
the more expensive levels of health care and a more efficient use
of limited resources as about two thirds of the existing health care
facilities weri- in disrepair and lacked equipment, supplies,
maintenance, personnel and outreach agents.
2.     PROJECT COMPONENTS
The Project crnsists of the following parts
Part A : Development of Basic Health Care Services
Strengthening and extending services and infrastructures of Primary
Health care by :-
1.     Upgrading and repair of 14 health units in Shabwa, 5 health
Units in Al-Mahra and 5 health units in Socotra and re-cons-
truction o' 2 health units in Al-Mahra;
2.     Construction of 11 health units in Shabwa, 5 health units in
Al-Mahra, 2 health units in Socotra and 1 health unit in Perim
Island;
3.     Construction and furnishing 11 housing facilities for staff
in new health units located in villages with housing shortages;
4.     Construction and furnishing of medical storage facilities in
Shabwa, Al-Mahra and Socotra;
5.     Extension of health services coverage through training of rural
health personnel; health guides and traditional birth
attendants.



(2)
Part B: Development of Health Manpower
Strengthening the health care personnel training systex by ;
1.;    Construction and operation of a regional health institute in
Ataq, Shabwa Governorate as a branch of the Health Manpower Develop-
ment Institute with boarding facilities for about 60 students to
provide training courses for nursing assistants and conbaunity
midwives.
2.     Construction of 3 new Classrooms and auxiliary facilities
in the district of Al-Ghaida, Al-Mahra Governorate.
3.     Development and implementation by MOPH of continuing educa-
tion programs for primary health care workers, traditional birth
attendants and health guides and training of about 200 new health
guides; and
4.     Organisation among the MOPH staff of about 13 training
supervision teams to monitor the performances of primary health care
workers and provide them with technical assistance and continuing
education.
Part C : Promotion of Family Planning and Health Education
1.     Organisation of courses in family planning for the personnel
of health units, health centres and district hospitals:
2.     Training of midwives and other health personnel in safe
motherhood;
3.     Carrying out of a study on contaceptive knowledge, attitude
and practice.
4.     Organisation of family planning workshops;
5.     Provision of health education materials, audio-visual
equipment and means of transport to service the Health Education
division of MOPH and the regional health units;
6.     Provision of fellowships in health information, communica-
tion and education.
Part D : Strengthening MOPH Management capabilities
Strengthening the capabilities of MOPH in organisation,
pla-nning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of health
services;
2.     Provision of training courses in health administration;
3.     Establishment in MOPH of a management information system for
data information, including pharmaceutical supplies;
4.     Carrying out of studies on (1) Health manpower requirements
and (ii) the performance of health guides and primary health care
workers to determine the relevance of their training, effectiveness
and incentives to increase recruitment of women to health professions
5.     Construction of 2 regional health directorates in Ataq, Shabw;
-_ crate and in Al-Ghaida, Al-Mahra Governorate and provision
of furniture and vehicles to such health directorates.



SECOND HEALTH I)EVE1L,PiENT PROJECT ( CHIiDlT 1972 YEM)
ILwJivil Works - Achieveunerit
CONTRACT     CO0JTRACT'  SITE 11/0   YERIOD OF      ACTUAL COMPLETION
DESCRIITION            CONTRACTOR        AMOUNT        LATE         DATE      COMPLETION          DATE
1 *      ~CONSTHUC'ilON OF NEW                       Y.Riyals
H/UNITS WITH STAFF ACJN
a. Shabwa Governorate - 11 Nos P.B. Corp,Shabwa   7,150,000   03/03/88   04/03/88           12 mths      Novemuber 1989
Al-Sifal, Xoban, Bir
Al-Nakhl, Ant-hada,
Dhalmin, Darb-el-1allahiF
Saeed Girdan, Salmon,
Al-Hamiya.
As agreed with Donor UNCDF
the cost of the 11th H/U
was used for construction
of fencing argund the ten
H/Units, water supply and
defence wall to Al-Sifal
H/unit.
b. Al-Mahra Governorate - 7 Nos P.B.Corp,            5,102,500   10/08/90   10/10/90       260 days      07/21/1994
Muhaifif, Dhabut, Yaroob      Al-Mahra
Damkut,Wadi al-masila
Hasai and Manaar
Muhaifif and Dhabut
without staff Accdn.
c. Socotra Island  - 2 Nos       A.S. Hamad          6,400,979   12/11/93   22/01/94       270 days      12/29/1995
Moomy and Showab
d. Perin Island  - 1 No.         A.M.Dugaish         2,358,861   12/12/93   22/01/94       270 days      07/01/1995



SECOND IEA L'l'H DEVELOMIENT PROJECT ( CREJ)1T 1972 YEM)
Civil Works (Contd)
CONTRACT    CONTRACT    SITE H1/0   IERIOD OF      ACTUAL COMI-LETION
LESCRIPrl'ON                 CON'ITIiCTOR            AMOUITT      DATE        DATE      COMPLETION          DATE
2. REM-GRADING 0 EXISTING                                    Y.Riy&Ils
HEALTH UNITS
a.  Shabwa Governorate - 14 Nos   Governor of Shabwa         1,456,000    07/02/91   Various       12 months        12/31/1994
Ctura Al Fallahin, Al iYiusaiiiaa
Habban, Hada, Rudhoom, Bir Ali
Al-Rawdah, Mo&es, Al-Nakoob,
Khar, Reida Basaad, Gardan,
Al-Hanak and Hateeb.
b. Al-Mahra Governorate - 4 Nos
Al-Fudemi, Haswain, Al-Iss      Ali S. Hagran             481,000      12/12/90   02/C3/91      12 months       02/03/1992
and Itab
c.  Socotra Islana  - 5 Nos         A.S. Hanad              2,266,316      12/19/93   02/12/94      270 days        01/16/1995
5. CONSTRUCTION OF HEAL'I'i DIRECTikIJTE
BUILDBhGS
a. Shabwa Governorate                P.B.Corp,SHabwa        2,237,664      1j107/90   10/13/90    270 days          12/11/1992
b. Al-Mahra Goverriorate             Saleh S.Hagran         3,806,246      09/29/93   10/02/93      365 days        31/12/1995



SECOND HEAL'IH DEVELI-1N'ENT i-iOJECT (ChEDIT 1972 YhMA
Civil Works (Contd)
CCN'EACT    CONTRACT   SITE H/O   PERIOD OF       ACTUAL COMIFLETION
LESCRIPiION                  CONTRACTOR             AMOULIT     DAlE        DATE       COMELETION         DA'lE
4. CONSTRUCaION OF JMEDICAL                                   Y.Riyals
STORES
a.  Shabwa Governorate,Ataq    P.B.Corp, Shabwa          1,884,064    10/07/90    10/13/90       270 days       10/11/1992
b.  Al-Mahra Governorate        Ali. S. Hagran           1,378,000    12/05/90    01/01/91       240 days       10/12/1991
Al-Ghaida
c.  Socotra Island, Hadibo      A.S. Hamad               1,042,418    12/19/93    02/12/94       270 days       01/16/1995
5. CONSTPRUCTION OF fLEALTlH
INSTII'UTE WITH BOARDlNG
a. Shabwa Governorate, Ataq    P.B.Corp,Shaowa          11,813,542    07/02/91    07/10/91       360 days       12/25/1995
6. CONSTRUCTION UF CLASSROOMS
HEALTU INSTITUIEE
a. Al-Mahra Governora#e,        Saleh  Bin Hagran        3,504t202    09/29/93    10/02/93       365 days       12/31/1995
Al-Ghaida



-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                5.- 
gVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR: 1972 YEM)
-    - - -     _  ~~-      _     4, TRAINSN6    -        - 
Cadre           -      --  Persons       Status
1. Training Health Guides -    200 persons  completed
2  Training Midwifery/MCH        123
3. Family planning Workshops    16 sessions
4. Project Launch Workshop
5. Anaysis of Health Manpower
requirements                                   0
6. Maintenance of equipment
and vehicles                   10 persons
7. Health Guides & PHC Workers                completed.
Survey
Revised Program as per IDA Mission Aide Memoire of May 25,19S
S. Training of Middle Level Cadres  Persons    Start   Complete
a. Gen. Administration               10       01/28/94  02/11/94
b. Personal Administration           10          -          -
c. Statistics                        11                     -
d. Computer                          22       05/04/95  06/05!9'
e. Nutrition                         12       04/07/95  04/24/9r
f. Bio Medical Maint.                 6      01/14/95  U2I09/9z.
9. Training of Health Auxilliaries
a. T.B.As                                    cancel2ed
b. T.S.Ts                                     09/21/95  10/26/9'
c. MCH Workshop                                         complete
10. Fellowships & Professional Cadres
a. Community   -                      I        July 1993 July 1I
b. Health Management                  1        Feb 1994  Apr.29?
c. MCH  Management                    2        Feby 1994 Apr. 9



SECOND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PRO6E CT (CR: 1972 YEM)
5. Equpme, Fwrnue & Vehile
I tam    Desc:r"on           DA Budget  Cai*act
USS         VAu
1.   EquiplFum Health Units   )            US$ 191.866. 1006%
)
564,600
2.   EqulpdYum Medicaores )
and  Healfth Direcorates)           P.Stg132,556  100%
3.   EquipiFum Health Instte                   132,188  100%
4.   Vehiles                   277.800       Not used    -
5.   Essential drugs                      USS 196226  100%
6.   F.PAudio Visual Equip     45,500        Not used
7.   Computurised Informaton
System for drugs         48,200       Not used-
8.   Computers for PIU and
Under-Secretary MOPH       -         USS  11,818  100 %
9.    Re-production of H.E.FIlms
(outstanding from Cr.:1377 YDR) -   USS   33,600  100%
10.   TrainIg mabrials for
management local staff   10,900        not used   -
11.   Rehabilltaion of AIC
Gumhurba HospitalAden               US S 1.290.000  100 %



SECOID HELTE DEVELOWIT PROJICT (CREDIT 1972 YEW)
-   -   6. FINANCIAL STATUS -AS )F 31 DEC 1996
-       -. ALL C0I4POiiETS .       -                       -
Category         Allocation          Amount disbursed      Un-disbursed
S.D.R.           as of 31 Dec 1995      commitments
U.S3                 U.S.$
1. Civil Works       1,400,000             1,889,908.98           140,250.00
2. Equipments        1,500,000             1,931,372.1'            251,69C.OO
3. Training            300,000               397,896.84              2,000.00
4. Supervision         100,000                 47,638.9e            42,900.OC
5. Un-allocated        200,0CO                                           -
TOTAL      3,500,000 S3R        4,266,816.91 US5        436,640.00 USZ



-                 7. CIVIL WORKS - PINAICXIL STATUS AS 0' 31 DECR,:BER 1995          '--
CO0N"iACT VALUE       IDA SHLHE   AMK0UIT      CCI*1.1EDu
DESCRIpTiON 0} WORK         Y.Riyals   U.S.S       70%         DISBURSED   UE.DIS.upSE
'J. .   *usS$          U.S. S
S'ABWA GOVfLiCRATE
Construction
1. Health Directorate         2,237,664   186,472    130,530    140,644.62    3,450.00
2. Medical Store              1,684,064   157,008    109,905    110,877.64    5,230.CO
3. Realth Institute          11,813,542   984,461    689,123    557,749.46   18,340.00
Renovation
4. 14 Health Units            1,456,000   121,333      84,933      43,767.03    1,840.00
AL-MABRA GOVEB20ORATE
Construction
5. 7 H/Units witi Staff       5,102,500   425,208    297,646    264,608.09           0.00
Accommodation
6. Medical Store              1,378,000   114,833      80,363      86,674.93         0.00
7. Health-Directorate         3,808,246   317,353    222,148    163,982.00    9,310.03
8. Classrooms, H/Inst.        3,504,202   292,004    204,403    162,898.83   37,960.00
Renovation
9. Five health Units            481,000    40,003      28,058      28,058.00         0.00
ADEN COVEORLTAIZ
Construction
10.  2 Nos.h/Urdts,Socotra      4,858,048   404,637    263,366       54,285.89   45,570.00
11.  2 Nos.Staff Accdn          1,541,618   128,468      69,928      23,705.63   13,916.00
Socotra
12.  Medical Store,Socotra      1,042,418    86,868      60,807      35,777.00    1,460.00
13.  1 No.H/Urit w/Staff        2,358,861   197,316   .138,116    104,604.47           0.00
Acedn, Perim island
Renovation
14.  5 Nos.H/Units,Socotra      2,266,316   136,659    132,201       42,405.4,    3,172.00
15.  I4alaria Clinic,Aden         335,400    27,950       9,000       9,000.00         0.00
16. Terminated Contracts
Socotra and Perim                                               60,668.96         0.00
TOTALS       44,067,679 3,673,053  2,560,567  1,8e9,907.96  140,250.00
*  Amounts paid to Contractors wat 9C% from I.D  share instead of 7C% as per
IDA's instructions.



SECOND EALTH DEVELOPIENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1972 YLM)
8, UN-DISBUISED COMMITMENTS
U.S.Dollars
Category 1. Civil Works as per details enclosed.                140,250.00
Category 2. Equipments:
1. Re-hibilitation of Central A/C,Gumhuriya
Hospital, Aden                                  220,490.00
2. Purchase of two vehicles.                         31,200.00
251,69o.0C
Category 3. Training:
1. Salary of PITJ Engineers.                          2.000,00
Category 4. Supervision Travel :
1. Supervision fees, Medical Store,Al-Mahra             350.00
2.        "       "  health Inst. Shabwa              1,700.00
3.        "       "   7 H/Units, Al-Mahra              ;750.00
4.                    Heulth Directorate and          1,150.00
Medical store, Al-Mahra.
5.        "       "  Regrading 14 H/Units,Shabwa        410.00
6.        H       "  Cla.sroomns, Al Yiahra             740.00
7.                    H "  Health Directorate,Al-Mahra  800.00
8. Supervision travel PIU Staff Jan - April 1996    3,000.00
9. Supervision of Central A/C,Gumnhuria Hosp,Aden    6,000.00
10. Consultants fee, Evaluation Peoject Conipletion  23,000.00
11. Per diem Evaluation committee xiiembers            5,000-00
42,900.00
TOTAL U.S.3 436,840.00
. |X1  t _.f.4  , -         _          _ _  -



Health 11 Project Features:
To be       To be
Renovated  Reconstructed  Ness
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                           0           0    0  Health Units
OF  YEMEN                                                                                     /                                             Regional Health Diremtorates
A    Health Manpower Institutes
ii    HEALTH   11 PROJECT                                                                                                                                         a  medical Storage Fac.lites
See Annex for List of Project Sites.
0      Selected Towns and Villages
SAUDI                                         TCX ! /                                                                 lhamud  ~\ Governorate Capitals
AL                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nat,onal Capital
   Airports
Ports
akh        t                       0      ^   i          AL                  -                 B-Primary Roads
Secondary Roads
Tarim   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~--- Trackis
/           w       ~~~~~~Seiyun                                                      HAYDCA YAH       -- fak
Al C ~~~hurf~~~-                       Nishtun           --Z       Wadis
YEMEN ARAB                                                                  Qatn                                                          375r-NGhurat  ishtun  _   Gosernorate Boundaries
International Boundaries
MA WT                                                     s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A. 5 ....p..
~~~~~'  Lawdar ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x N aqabah ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- .,,-
; 53 ~~~~~~~~-\  A r                                          o ~~~~~~~~KILOM4ETERS                                                         Qu0e0i          Hadibo  5
l d 45 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48                                                          MILES                     51            <3<: 54 RVEC 19/
Al Ay~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,Eic/ISu









IMAAGING]
Peport No: .1572 ',
Type: ICF



