Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1972 YDR
                (Second Health Development Project)
                              between
               PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 23, 1989
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   February   23,   1989,  between  PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN  (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has obtained:  (i)  a  grant from the World
Health Organization (WHO) in  an  amount equivalent to two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000); (ii) a  grant from the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF) in  an  amount  equivalent to two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000); (iii) a grant from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF)  in  an amount equivalent to five
hundred thousand dollars  ($500,000);  and  (iv)  a grant from the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) in an amount
equivalent to two hundred  thousand  dollars ($200,000), to assist
in financing part of the  Project  on the terms and conditions set
forth in agreements  entered  into  between  the Borrower and WHO,
UNICEF, UNCDF and UNFPA, respectively; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MOPH"  means  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  of the
Borrower;
     (b)  "PIU" means the  Project Implementation Unit established
within MOPH under the Development  Credit Agreement for the Health
Development Project (Credit No.  1377  YDR), concluded between the
Borrower and the Association on July 14, 1983; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to three million  five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,500,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.O3.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  June  30, 1994
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
Page  3
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30,  1988  shall  not be applied as of July 1,
1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  April 15 and October 15
commencing April  15,  1999,  and  ending  October  15, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
October 15, 2008  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its MOPH with due diligence  and efficiency and in conformity with
Page  4
appropriate  public  health  care,  administrative  and  financial
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. For purposes  of  coordinating the execution of
the Project and  without  any  limitation  upon  the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall: (i) maintain
the PIU  and  provide  it  with  the  resources  and qualified and
experienced staff required  for  the  purpose;  and (ii) cause the
Regional  Health   Directorates   to   act   as  regional  Project
implementation units  and  provide  them  with  the  resources and
qualified and experienced staff for the purpose.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1992, furnish  to  the  Association  for  review  and comment, the
findings and recommendations of the  studies under Part D.4 of the
Project; and (b) not later  than  December 31, 1992, based on such
review, prepare and finalize  an  action plan, satisfactory to the
Association,  setting  forth  the  measures  to  be  taken  by the
Borrower  to  implement   the   recommendations  agreed  with  the
Association.
     Section  3.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
Page  5
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
     (a)  Subject to paragraph (b)  of  this Section, the right of
the Borrower to withdraw  the  proceeds  of  any grant made to the
Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
suspended, cancelled or terminated  in  whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
          (i)  such suspension,  cancellation,  or  termination is
               not  caused  by  the  failure  of  the  Borrower to
               perform  any   of   its   obligations   under  such
               agreement; and
         (ii)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Ministry  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          P.O. Box 1193
          Aden
          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TAKHTEET                        2289 TAKHTEET AD
                Aden
Page  6
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                         44OO98 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145  (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                             OF YEMEN
                          By /s/ H. S. Al-Alfi
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Ardy Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              2,000,000          70%
     under Parts A.1
     through A.4
     (except the new
     health units in
     Shabwa), and
     Parts B.1, B.2
     and D.5
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment, furni-          900,000          100% of foreign
     ture, materials,                            expenditures
     drugs and vehicles                          for directly
     (except the software                        imported items
     under Part D.3                              and 100% of ex-
     of the Project)                             factory locally
                                                 manufactured
                                                 items and 85%
Page  7
                                                 of local expendi-
                                                 tures for other
                                                 items procured
                                                 locally
(3)  Training, studies         300,000           100%             a
nd consultants'
     services
(4)  Supervision travel        100,000           70%
(5)  Unallocated               200,000
                              ________
         TOTAL               3,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "supervision  travel"  means  expenditures for
travel of MOPH staff within  the Borrower's territory to supervise
the implementation of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) strengthening and extending its  primary health care system in
the Governorate of  Shabwa  (Shabwa),  the Governorate of Al-Mahra
(Al-Mahra) and the District  of Socotra (Socotra); (ii) developing
and upgrading  health  manpower  in  said  areas;  (iii) promoting
family planning and health  education in the Borrower's territory;
and (iv) strengthening the public  health sector management at the
central and regional levels.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Development of Basic Health Care Services
     Strengthening and  extending  services  and infrastructure of
primary health care by:
1.   upgrading and repair  of  about  14  health  units in Shabwa,
about 5 health  units  in  Al-Mahra  and  about  5 health units in
Socotra and reconstruction of about 2 health units in Al-Mahra;
2.   construction  of  about  11  health  units  in  Shabwa, about
5 health units in Al-Mahra,  about  2  health units in Socotra and
1 health unit in Berim;
3.   construction and furnishing  of  about  11 housing facilities
for staff in new  health  units  located  in villages with housing
shortages;
4.   construction and furnishing of  medical storage facilities in
Atag, Al-Ghaydah and Hadibo; and
Page  8
5.   extension of  health  service  coverage  through  training of
rural  health  personnel,  health  guides  and  traditional  birth
attendants.
Part B:   Development of Health Manpower
     Strengthening the health care personnel training system by:
1.   construction and operation of  a regional health institute in
Ataq as a branch of the Health Manpower Development Institute with
boarding facilities  for  about  60  students  to provide training
courses for nursing assistants and community midwives;
2.   construction  of  about   3   new  classrooms  and  auxiliary
facilities in the District of Al-Ghaydah;
3.   development  and   implementation   by   MOPH  of  continuing
education programs for  primary  health  care workers, traditional
birth attendants and health guides  and  training of about 200 new
health guides; and
4.   organization  among  the  MOPH  staff  of  about  13 training
supervision teams to  monitor  the  performance  of primary health
care  workers  and  provide  them  with  technical  assistance and
continuing education.
Part C:   Promotion of Family Planning and Health Education
1.   Organization of courses in  family planning for the personnel
of health units, health centers and district hospitals.
2.   Training of  midwives  and  other  health  personnel  in safe
motherhood.
3.   Carrying out of a  study on contraceptive knowledge, attitude
and practice.
4.   Organization of family planning workshops.
5.   Provision  of   health   education   materials,  audio-visual
equipment and means of  transport  to service the Health Education
Division of MOPH and the regional health units.
6.   Provision of fellowships in health information, communication
and education.
Part D:   Strengthening MOPH Management Capability
1.   Strengthening  the  capabilities  of  MOPH  in  organization,
planning,  implementation,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of health
services.
2.   Provision of training courses in health administration.
3.   Establishment in MOPH of  a management information system for
data information, including pharmaceutical supplies.
4.   Carrying out of studies on: (i) health manpower requirements,
and (ii) the performance of  health guides and primary health care
workers to determine the  relevance  of their training, effective-
ness and incentives  to  increase  recruitment  of women to health
professions.
5.   Construction of 2  regional  health  directorates in Ataq and
Al-Ghaydah and provision of furniture  and vehicles to such health
directorates.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To  the   extent   practicable,   contracts   for  equipment,
furniture,  vehicles,  materials,  drugs  and  supplies  shall  be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and  subject  to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works  in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $80,000
per contract, up to an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equi-
valent of $3,100,000, and  goods  estimated  to cost more than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract and less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $10,000
per contract, up to an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equi-
valent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Works under Parts  A.1,  A.2  and  A.3  of  the Project to be
carried out in remote  areas,  up  to  an  aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of  $400,000,  may  be  carried out by force
account with the Association's prior approval.
4.   Goods estimated to cost  more  than the equivalent of $10,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $600,000, may be procured from UNICEF.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or  more and for works for Part B.1
of the Project, described in  Part  A.1 hereof, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Page  10
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower  in carrying out Parts C.3,
C.4 and D.4 of the  Project, the Borrower shall employ administra-
tive  and  health  management  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank  Borrowers  and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(4) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
Page  11
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
Page  12
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
