                            Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR000026




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           ( IDA-32630 )




                                ON A

                  CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                       US$ MILLION 13.33

                   (SDR 9.87 MILLION CREDIT)

                                 TO

                               Georgia

                                FOR

                       Judicial Reform Project




                           May 17, 2007




Poverty Reduction & Economic Management
South Caucasus country Unit
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = lari
                                  Lari 1.00 = US$
                               US$ 1.00 = lari 1.73

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 1

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ABA/CEELI American Bar Association's Central Europe and Eurasia Legal Initiative
ALPE      Association for Legal and Public Education
BEEPS     EBRD and World Bank Business Enterprise and Economic Peformance Surveys
CAS       Country Strategy Assistance
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
ENP       European Neighborhood Policy
GDC       General Department for Courts
GDP       Gross Domestic Project
GTZ       Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit
HCJ       High Council of Justice
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Internally Displace Persons
JTC       Judicial Training Center
LANs      Local area networks
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOJ       Ministry of Justice
NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
OSCE      Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PSAs      Public Service Announcements
QEA       Quality at Entry
QSA       Quality of Supervision
SATAC     Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SOEs      Statement of Expenses
TA        Technical Assistance
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     US Agency for International Development

     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
    Sector Manager: Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader: David S. Bernstein
  ICR Team Leader: David S. Bernstein

                                              GEORGIA
                                   Judicial Reform Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .............. 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 31
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
 Annex 7: Summary Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 MAP : IBRD 33410

A. Basic Information

Country:                Georgia                Project Name:          Judicial Reform Project
Project ID:             P057813                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-32630
ICR Date:               05/18/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 9.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 9.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
IBC PIU
Ministry of Justice
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/08/1998    Effectiveness:        09/22/1999          09/22/1999
Appraisal:             05/11/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/29/1999    Mid-term Review:                          11/12/2001
                                     Closing:              06/30/2003          06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately
                                                                      Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to law and justice                                      Primary          Primary
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms               Primary          Primary
Law reform                                                     Primary        Not Applicable
Legal institutions for a market economy                        Primary          Secondary
Legal services                                                 Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         D-M Dowsett-Coirolo               Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Ronald E. Myers                   Sanjay Pradhan
Project Team Leader:      David S. Bernstein                Friedrich Peloschek
ICR Team Leader:          David S. Bernstein
ICR Primary Author:       Frances M. Allen



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to assist in the development of an independent and
professional judiciary, committed to high standards of judicial ethics and capable of
efficient, effective dispute resolution. The success of the project is assessed against the
following key performance indicators:
  (a) degree to which the new court administration system has been established.This
entails the establishment of the Court Administrative Committee of General Courts (as


                                              ii

the rule-making body) and the Coordinating Council on the Conference of Judges (as the
executive organ of court administration); it also involves the effective participation of
sitting judges in the court administration system;
  (b) introduction of a new case management system including establishment of a
chancellery responsible for filing cases in the first and second instance courts, thereby
providing adequate information to the public on the status of pending court cases;
  (c) improved public awareness of how the judicial system works, including better
understanding and perception of the reform program; awareness of their individual rights;
increased willingness of the judiciary to interface with the public; improved coverage of
legal and judicial issues by the media, and better understanding of alternative dispute
resolution; and
  (d) increased trust in the judicial system by actual and potential users, including the
business and legal communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO and indicators were not revised during the implementation of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increased control over flow of cases
                                                                          Updated case
                                                                          management
                                                                          procedures and

Value           Purely manual, outdated,   Fully functional               practices, hardware

quantitative or case management            automated case                 and networking

Qualitative)    practices in place.        management                     equipment
                                           system                         operation, software
                                                                          delivered but not
                                                                          rolled out
                                                                          nationally.
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   12/31/2007                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Only around 25% achievement of this objective primarily due to fluctuating

achievement)    ownership and emerging changes in the judicial map.

Indicator 2 :   Number of court facilities rehabilitated
Value
quantitative or 0                          11                             15
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   12/31/2005                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        136% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Delays in enforcement of court decisions reduced
Value           No baseline established in None                           (BEEPS 2005 -



                                               iii

quantitative or documentation. (BEEPS                                       62% firms surveyed
Qualitative)    1999 - 35% firms                                            indicated that the
                surveyed indicated that                                     courts are able to
                the courts are able to                                      enforce decisions)
                enforce decisions)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   06/30/1999                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Although ex post indicators do not measure actual delays in enforcement, the

achievement)    perception among firms has improved dramatically over the period.

Indicator 4 :   Judicial training carried out
                                                                            Systemic training

Value           No systemic plan for                                        plan executed for

quantitative or training for judicial      No specific target               new judges, judges'

Qualitative)    system staff.                                               assistants and court
                                                                            support personnel
                                                                            since 2002.
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   06/30/1999                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        This target has been substantially achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Improvement in public trust of courts (as measured by baseline and completion
                surveys)
                                                                            71% firms surveyed

Value           29% firms surveyed                                          report confidence in

quantitative or confident in legal system  None                             the legal system to

Qualitative)    to uphold prop & contract                                   uphold prop &
                rights(BEEPS 99)                                            contract rights.
                                                                            (BEEPS 05)
Date achieved 06/09/1998                   06/30/1999                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Establishment of independent public information and outreach center
Value           Little public information ALPE fully                        ALPE fully
(quantitative   provided re judicial       functional and self              functional and self-
or Qualitative) system                     sustaining                       sustaining
Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2005                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        ALPE remain fully functional, although focus on legal public education has

achievement)    waned owing to less demand from judicial system.




                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1   12/27/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.55
  2   05/04/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.77
  3   12/29/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.22
  4   06/26/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.71
  5   12/26/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  3.84
  6   06/27/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.94
  7   12/24/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  7.55
  8   06/24/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  8.16
  9   11/26/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                10.01
  10  06/04/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                11.46
  11  12/29/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                12.46
  12  06/29/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                12.88
  13  06/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         13.33
  14  06/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         13.33



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design



1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In June 1997, the Georgian government achieved the landslide passage of a new Law on
the Courts of General Jurisdiction ("Law on the Judiciary"). This achievement reflected
the important consensus that as a modern democratic state with a market economy
Georgia required a judiciary that is competent, independent and trusted by all parties. In
Country Strategy (CAS) discussions, also in 1997, the Government requested assistance
in further defining and implementing its judicial reform program. The request was in line
with the second goal of the CAS of "deepening and diversifying sources of growth" as
entrepreneurs were seen to be unlikely to invest without an adequate legal and
institutional framework for the protection and enforcement of contract and property
rights. This project was designed in response to that request.

During the Soviet era, the judiciary was financed and managed by the executive power,
through the Ministry of Justice (MOJ). The main law enforcement body was the Office
of the Prosecutor General, or the procuracy, which could intercede even in civil matters
in which the state did not have an interest, as well as void decisions by the courts. Judges
were poorly paid, and not generally respected by the public.

Although Georgia was one of the first republics to secede from the Soviet Union, its early
years of independence were fraught with civil unrest and, ultimately, civil war. This
period ended only when President Shevardnadze, the former Soviet Foreign Minister,
was able to consolidate power and push through the adoption of a new constitution in
1995. Despite continuing territorial conflict with limited or no central government
authority over a number of regions, Shevardnadze pursued a reform agenda. Young
leaders, including the future president Saakashvili, were appointed to key positions in the
justice sector where they forcefully advocated for reform of the judiciary. The early
centerpiece of this reform was the re-qualification of all judges based on objectively
administered examinations. Judges who passed the qualification process were appointed
for ten year terms, and were to receive significant salary increases. Similar reforms of the
procuracy and the bar were to follow.

The 1997 Law on the Judiciary brought Georgia's legal reform process to an important
new stage. It presented a coherent vision of a new Georgian judiciary and laid the
groundwork for the development of institutions to carry out systemic change. However,
even in this context, the objectives and the timeline set out in the Bank's project were
ambitious. The judiciary was being built essentially from scratch as the country had few
judges or lawyers who understood how a free-market economy based on the rule of law
should function. A baseline study indicated that the general view in Georgia was that the
rule of law did not exist. There was widespread mistrust of the judiciary and judges were



                                              1

generally perceived as corrupt and incompetent. Resolving disputes through bribery or
familial connections was a deep-seated practice in Georgia, with roots antedating the
Soviet era. In addition, after years of financial mismanagement, the justice infrastructure
was in very poor condition, with rundown courthouses lacking in basic sanitary facilities,
heating and electricity, not to mention computers and other equipment.

Given the above conditions, effectively implementing the 1997 Law on the Judiciary was
going to be a great challenge. In addition to updating processes, procedures, technology,
infrastructure, human resource capacity and incentives, the judges and other court
personnel needed to undergo a fundamental change in orientation: from asserting power
to providing dispute resolution services.

At the same time, the Bank was embarking on its first batch of legal and judicial reform
projects in Europe and Central Asia (ECA). The overarching focus at that time was on
supporting institutional and legislative changes that would establish independence and
accountability of the judiciary. As such, the majority of components focused support on:
(i) legal reform to establish judicial independence from the executive; (ii) capacity
building for the judiciary and its emerging leadership bodies; (iii) public education; and
(iv) strengthening enforcement of judicial decisions. Upgrading of infrastructure was
also considered important for the conduct of justice ­ by addressing the need for
adequate space, security and transparency for court proceedings, information flow and
storage, and public access ­ and for public perceptions of the court system

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project is to assist in the development of an independent and
professional judiciary, committed to high standards of judicial ethics and capable of
efficient, effective dispute resolution. The success of the project is assessed against the
following key performance indicators:

(a) degree to which the new court administration system has been established. This
entails the establishment of the Court Administrative Committee of General Courts (as
the rule-making body) and the Coordinating Council on the Conference of Judges (as the
executive organ of court administration); it also involves the effective participation of
sitting judges in the court administration system;

(b) introduction of a new case management system including establishment of a
chancellery responsible for filing cases in the first and second instance courts, thereby
providing adequate information to the public on the status of pending court cases;

(c) improved public awareness of how the judicial system works, including better
understanding and perception of the reform program; awareness of their individual rights;
increased willingness of the judiciary to interface with the public; improved coverage of
legal and judicial issues by the media, and better understanding of alternative dispute
resolution; and




                                               2

(d) increased trust in the judicial system by actual and potential users, including the business and
legal communities

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

PDO and indicators were not revised during the implementation of the project


1.4 Main Beneficiaries and original revised
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The PAD suggested that the project would benefit the "entire population of Georgia, and
in particular, the business community and foreign investors" through the establishment
of "an independent and competent judicial system, leading to the enforcement of more
secure property rights and contractual obligations" and "an environment conducive to the
establishment of the rule of law".

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of the following five components:

A. Court Administration and Case Management (US$3.06 million)

The objectives of this component were to assist the judiciary in: (i) the establishment of a
court administration system under the leadership of bodies with adequate representation
of the three instances of the court system; (ii) implementation of a modern computerized
system of case management; and (iii) provision of a system for audio recording of court
proceedings to ensure the integrity of court protocols.

B. Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$6.99 million)

The objective of this component was to improve court infrastructure to reflect the new
procedures of an independent and better functioning judiciary, with an improved public
perception of the judiciary. The component was to rehabilitate up to 11 court buildings,
facilities for the Judicial Training Center (JTC), offices for the Department of Courts, and
provide for minor works in the MOJ. The courthouses were to be rehabilitated according
to standards developed by the Department of Courts.

C. Enforcement of Court Judgments (US$234,000)

The objective of this component was to help with the creation of a new department for
the enforcement of court decisions in the MOJ following the adoption of a Law on
Enforcement of Court decisions. Under the component funding was to be provided to



                                                  3

develop a master plan for creating an efficient court enforcement service and provide
necessary training and equipment.

D. Assistance to the Ministry of Justice (US$270,000)

The objective of this component was to assist the MOJ to become the leading entity in
Georgia for legal drafting and legal harmonization. The project was to provide technical
assistance to strengthen the drafting and harmonization activities of the MOJ and to
provide limited computer equipment.

E. Judicial Training Center (US$800,000)

The objective of this component was to assist the JTC in organizing and carrying out the
training of new and sitting judges, assistant judges, and chancery and technical staff of
the courts. In particular, the project was to assist in the development of a methodology
for training court personnel, as well as the development of specific programs, such as
bankruptcy. Train the trainers programs were also to be supported, as well as study tours
and workshops to facilitate contacts between the Georgian judiciary and representatives
of developed judicial systems.

F. Public Information / Education (US$1.37 million)

The objective of this component was to raise the appreciation among the Georgian
population about the importance of an independent and competent judiciary and of the
reform efforts underway. In particular, the component sought to inform and educate the
public concerning their rights; explain how to use the judicial system to users and
potential users; build consensus for judicial reform; improve media understanding of the
legal and judicial systems; build trust in the judiciary; explain and promote the use of
ADR; and provide feedback to the judiciary on the public's understanding and perception
of the reform process. These goals were to be accomplished through the creation of an
NGO, a mass media campaign, seminars and workshops, a newsletter for the court
system, training of journalists and distribution of literature.

G. A final component covered Project Management (US$0.65 million).

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised formally. However, by early 2003, activities
under Component C to provide technical assistance strengthen the Ministry of Justice's
system of legislative drafting were dropped because the Ministry of Justice was unable to
decide how and when to make use of the proposed assistance

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)




                                               4

In addition to dropping the main activities of Component C, there were four key changes
to the design of the project during implementation.

In June 2001, the procurement threshold for national competitive bidding of works,
including rehabilitation was lowered from US$500,000 to $200,000 due to the high-risk
status of the Georgian procurement system. To the best of the knowledge of the Bank
team, credit resources were not inappropriately used before the threshold was lowered.

In late 2004, the PIU was moved from under the control of the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations to that of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the President's
decree of November 29, 2004, No. 547.

In addition to dropping the main activities of Component C, there were four key changes
to the design of the project during implementation.

The closing date of the project was extended three times from June 30, 2003 to June 30,
2006, mainly to accommodate implementation delays and design changes in the
infrastructure component and the case management component. Some of these changes
owe to the intermittent, but now ongoing, reorganization of the court system over the life
of the project (see section 2.2) Another cause of the implementation delay relates to the
lower financial capacity and reform commitment in the last years of the Shevardnadze era
(2002-3) and the disruption following the Rose Revolution (2004) which affected most
projects in the Bank's portfolio in Georgia.

In July 2005, the authorities informed the Bank that they had decided not to go forward at
this time with the upgrade and rollout of the piloted case management system because of
the ongoing court reorganization and imminent closure of the project. The Government
is consolidating 75 existing first instance courts into unified regional courts and
magistrate courts and has decided not to roll out the piloted case management system
until this is completed. The updated procedures, hardware and software for the pilot
system are ready to be used once the Government is ready. (See Section 2.5)

Finally, there were a number of reallocations of project funds between components and
disbursement categories during the life of the project. The contingency of SDR 1million
and savings of around SDR 400,000 from the allocation for goods purchases ­ including
the case management system ­ were reallocated to cover: (i) a 10 percent increase in the
allocation for civil works which ultimately rehabilitated 15 versus the intended 11 court
houses; (ii) a more than doubling of operating costs for the PIU and ALPE owing in part
to the 3-year extension of the project; and (iii) a 25 percent increase in spending on
consultant services, training and workshops across most components.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The quality at entry of the Project was reasonably good. The notable exception is that the


                                                5

development objectives were stated far too broadly for the proposed activities and
financial support, although the performance indicators did provide some specificity.
With hindsight, rather than "assisting in" the broad development goal of the Judiciary, the
project should have perhaps aimed more narrowly at strengthening: (i) the internal
management of the judiciary; (ii) judicial skills and professionally capacities; (iii)
technology and infrastructure for delivering judicial services; and (iv) public awareness
and understanding about the judiciary. Many of the first generation of judicial reform
projects in the ECA region suffered from similar overbroad definitions of project
objectives.

The Government of Georgia had already demonstrated a strong early commitment to
judicial reform at the time of project preparation. Important analytical work- a Judicial
Assessment (April 1998) ­ was done prior to preparation and initial activities were
financed by an ongoing Bank technical assistance project and supported by a policy-
based credit. The Bank team developed the components in close consultation with their
Georgian counterparts, and established relationships with reformers that later proved vital
when the political environment changed. The project was also designed in consultation
with key bilateral donors -- in particular USAID and GTZ -- so that the project not only
avoided donor overlap but in fact complemented projects that were already in place.
There were appropriate consultations with stakeholders, including NGOs who later
oversaw the implementation of the public education component. Project design was
also in line with the then current knowledge and approach being taken on the first cohort
of judicial reform projects in ECA. There was no QER or QAE assessment of this
project.

The inclusion of the public information/education component was thought to be critical to
support the demand side for judicial services and accountability in Georgia. The choice
to locate these activities in a new NGO ­ Association for Legal and Public Education
(ALPE) governed by a mix of Georgian justice sector NGOs and public sector bodies ­
was deemed necessary to increase credibility with the public. This proved to be an
important innovation in Bank lending at the time and later one of the more successful
components of the project. Some components were intended to complement each other,
viz, the judicial training center would be used to train personnel concerning new case
management techniques, the public education component would build knowledge of the
procedures being introduced, etc.

There was intense debate and clearly some residual concern about the large infrastructure
component in a project focused essentially on institutional building, as evidenced by its
omission in the main performance indicators. However, the Bank was truly lender of
last resort in this area and later experience has shown that rehabilitation and
modernization of court buildings is a critical element for improving the delivery of
judicial services and public access to justice. In addition, the sustainability of the
rehabilitation effort has been enhanced by the development of design standards that are
now being used by Georgia's judiciary as the court structure is reorganized and
courthouses are further rehabilitated.




                                               6

The design of the case management and enforcement components merit some comment
regarding later implementation and outcome shortcomings. While the 1998 Judicial
Assessment provided a cursory review of the existing case management and judicial
enforcement problems, more detailed assessments of the underlying weaknesses of these
systems during preparation may have allowed the project to focus more directly on the
long-term process of consensus-building among case management beneficiaries, and
would have improved the assistance provided for strengthening enforcement. For
example, during implementation, it became apparent that procedural codes and an
inadequate system for notifying parties of hearings and judgments would be critical for
improving enforcement.


2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
One important factor affecting project implementation and outcomes has been the
dramatic political changes in Georgia during the 7-year duration of the project.
Although there was strong support for judicial reform by President Shevardnadze during
initiation and early implementation of the project, this executive branch interest eroded
over time with the administration's shift away from pursuing reform in general toward
maintaining political control and culminated in Shevardnadze's public reminder to judges
to re-consider their allegiances just before the November 2003 elections. At this same
time, the OSCE praised the Georgian judiciary's performance during the elections for its
efficient and independent operation.1 This distinction highlights a common complication
with the implementation of judicial reform projects: the need to serve two clients ­ the
Government, usually represented by the MOJ, and the judiciary, usually represented by a
supreme court or judicial council. When both clients' interests are aligned,
implementation progresses; when their interests diverge, implementation suffers.

Following the Rose Revolution, during which the former Head of the Parliamentary
Commission on Judicial Reform - and later Minister of Justice - Saakashvili was elected
as president in early 2004, executive branch authorities renewed their focus on judicial
reform, but with a number of paradigm shifts that impacted project implementation and
outcomes.

Shifts in executive branch commitment to the objectives of judicial reform over the life of
the project manifested themselves in a number of ways. Despite strong rhetorical
commitment from the Government, general budget shortfalls and difficulties resulted in
delays in allocation of counterpart funds and inadequate financing for the judiciary during
the early project implementation period. After a substantial increase in judges' salaries
following their reappointment in 1997, there were periodic delays in paying salaries that
had a detrimental impact on morale and efforts to fight corruption. Salaries were left to


1 Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Statement of Preliminary Findings and
Conclusions, November 2003.



                                               7

erode until a substantial increase in 2006 to what are now generally acknowledged to be
adequate levels. Similarly, the budget for non-salary items had remained at the same level
during 1999-2000 and allocations were not adjusted to cover increasing operating and
maintenance costs until 2004. Since then the authorities have consistently increased the
judicial budget, with the judiciary scheduled to receive nearly twice of its 2005 allocation
(as a share of GDP) in 2007. In 2001, a lack of funding for the JTC resulted in at least
one group of new judges not receiving the necessary training mandated by law. However,
the JTC is now fully funded from the state budget to continue its operation as the newly
constituted High School of Justice.

Efforts to strengthen judicial accountability were also subject to shifting executive branch
commitment. As the overall reform focus of the government waned in 2002-03, efforts to
combat corruption in the judiciary through strong enforcement of the judicial code of
conduct also waned. During this period, Bank supervision reports regularly commented
on the delays in concluding investigations of allegedly corrupt judges, the level of follow-
up to public complaints and the deterioration in the integrity of the judicial qualification
process. Regarding the latter, the examination pass rate jumped to 50 percent (from 6-21
percent) in one region, once ABA/CEELI stopped supporting the qualification process

More recently, under the Saakashvili government, there has been renewed attention to
judicial corruption and accountability with a number of high profile cases and the
removal of judges. In addition to putting salaries and budgets on firmer footing, the
Government has also executed a significant turn-over in judges. This mirrors the
Government's actions in other areas (such as traffic police and academia) where large
number of staff were replaced. However, a number of concerns have been voiced both
within Georgia and among a number of development partners, that judicial independence
is threatened due to the lack of transparent methods being used to address corruption.
(Discussed below in Section 2.5.)

A second important factor impacting implementation was the continuity or lack thereof in
senior management in key institutions. Where it existed, this continuity was critical in
maintaining project activities despite changes in political will and leadership in the
country. The High Council of Justice, PIU, ALPE, and the Judicial Training Center
maintained, for the most part, the same leadership and competent technical staff
throughout the life of the project which greatly facilitated implementation and impact of
the related components. Even the numerous recent changes in management of General
Department of Courts (GDC), formerly the Department for Logistical Services, have not
impacted the delivery of the infrastructure component because of the continuity of a
capable technical team. However, high turnover in MOJ leadership (six Ministers during
the course of the loan) hindered implementation of Component C.

Delays in implementing the infrastructure component are largely responsible for the
extended duration of the project. However some of these delays were due to factors
outside the control of the government, such as: (i) the occupation of the courthouse in
Tbilisi by Internally Displace Persons (IDPs); (ii) conflict with the local authorities in
Adjara; and (iii) the 2002 earthquake which required additional repairs in a number of



                                              8

courthouses

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

At the time of project appraisal, the use of monitoring and evaluation systems, including
strict key performance indicators was not as rigorous as it is today. As such, while the
project documentation included a number of indicators, little or no attention was paid to
measuring, establishing targets or monitoring these indicators during the life of the
project. For example, the desired outcomes of "increased control over the flow of cases"
and "delays in the enforcement of court decisions reduced" have no baseline nor updates
against which to measure improvements, in the project documents. The notable
exception is the baseline public opinion study was undertaken by an external
consultant in 1998 and followed up in 2002, 2004 and 2006.

Stronger attention to measurable indicators of the project's outcomes would have helped
the task team focus inputs more effectively during the life of the project, and in particular
during the long period of closing date extensions. Quality of Supervision Assessments
(QSAs) carried out in September 2000 and October 2002 noted the need to revise the
original indicators and improve task team efforts to measure impact. However, it does
not appear that these suggestions were addressed

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Fiduciary. The project received unqualified audits throughout its implementation. Some
accountability and internal control issues were raised for 2002-04 financial years,
including, overdue counterpart funding, reconciliation of project accounts with
monthly disbursement summaries and assignment of expenditures to appropriate
categories, but these appear to have been addressed. The final unqualified audit was
received in January 2007. However, the financial specialist noted that the figures in the
Uses and Sources of Funds and SOE withdrawals did not match the Bank's figures in
Client Connection. This was resolved satisfactorily through discussions with the PIU
Director.

Safeguards. This project was governed by OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment issued in
October 1991 and was assigned a Category B which did not require full environmental
assessment, but some environmental analysis, on account of the civil works envisaged in
Component B. The PAD does not contain an analysis of potential environmental
impacts, relevant government policies or mitigating measures though it does note that
"environmental issues have been identified and mitigation measures defined". However,
the ISDS is available in project paper files, not in IRIS, and indicates that if
environmental issues were revealed during the course of civil works, mitigating measures
would be put in place. Supervision reports indicated there was never a need for any
mitigating measures for the civil works component.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase




                                                 9

(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
The project provided financing and expertise to support Georgia's early efforts at
reforming its judicial system. The project contributed to operationalizing the judicial
reform effort in specific areas as well as assisting with raising public awareness of the
judicial system, which is now being continued by the Government, though with a new
focus on criminal rather than civil justice. The Government's sustained interest in
judicial system reform is evidenced by the increase in judicial salaries and budget
allocation to the judicial system as well as the ongoing improvement in infrastructure.
Demand for improved judicial effectiveness is also likely to be increased as a result of
improved public awareness of the judicial system's role in protecting individual rights as
measured by the EBRD-World Bank Business Enterprise and Economic Performance
surveys (BEEPs).

However, there are some concerns about the Government's most recent judicial reform
efforts, particularly regarding the methods being used to reform the judiciary itself.
Court unification and personnel reform processes initiated in early 2005 were
implemented for some time without elaboration of a long term strategy. These processes
are being vigorously pursued by the reconstituted High Council of Justice - composed of
a majority of judges - in the name of improving accountability. Unfortunately, the
rationale behind the personnel processes has not been well communicated to the broader
judiciary or the public at large. Recognizing this, in 2007, the Government plans to
ensure improved publicity for the judicial selection process. Meanwhile, the personnel
reform has produced 70-80 vacancies in the judiciary which have resulted in increased
case loads for remaining judges and growing backlogs. In addition, the selection and
appointment of new judges has been characterized by Georgian NGOs and some donors
as lacking objective criteria and somewhat arbitrary.

The Bank raised concerns about the general lack of transparency about efforts to reform
the judiciary, including the ongoing court reorganization and consolidation, and noted its
possible impact on the sustainability of existing reforms. The motivation for a strong
break from the past is understandable, but, as with other areas, the Bank team noted that
the Government now needs to place reforms on a more systemic basis. However, while
these recent developments suggest concerns about the methods used to pursue the reform
process, the ongoing reforms indicate the continued strong commitment of the political
leadership for improving judicial effectiveness and accountability in Georgia.

Under the project two key institutions within the judiciary, ALPE and the Judicial
Training Center, were built and strengthened and both remain critical to sustaining the
PDO. With project support, the Judicial Training Center has created an excellent
program of training for judges and court personnel. It has recently been re-incorporated
as the High School of Justice and will benefit from defined budgetary resources and the
full support of the Government, Parliament and Ministry of Finance, placing it on sound
footing for the future. ALPE is continuing its public information/education activities for
judicial reform efforts, including the new focus on criminal justice. Public awareness and
understanding of the judiciary will be important to help guide the future reform efforts.


                                               10

Public perceptions of the judiciary have improved during the life of the project as
measured by the 2005 BEEPs result which found that the number of business firms that
felt that the legal system could uphold property and contract rights rising from 41 percent
to 71 percent from 2002 to 2005. In addition, by 2005 firms that use courts found them
to be more honest and uncorrupted than in 2002, albeit from a low baseline of 28 percent.
As a result of its demonstrated success under the project, ALPE has been able to diversify
its revenue sources by providing new activities for other ongoing reform efforts.

The ongoing court reorganization and consolidation exercise could have important
implications for the use of those courthouses facilities that have been renovated/
constructed under the project. The Council of Justice has stated that courts renovated
under the project will continue to be used with some likely to be further expanded to
accommodate the consolidation effort. The GDC has maintained a good capacity to
manage the physical operations, maintain court facilities, and plan and execute strategic
investments and has benefited from an agreed set of design standards that can be used to
guide future works. In addition, as a result of the project, there are more civil works
contractors in Georgia now qualified to deliver construction services for courthouses.
However, future results will depend on GDC's ability to replace experienced technical
staff that have moved on following the conclusion of the Judicial Reform Project.

The sustainability and impact of the recommendations for court administration and case
management improvements appears to be limited. The judiciary has benefited from the
design of improved court administration and case processing procedures, a replicable
pilot of a new case management system and the purchase of hardware to support a future
rollout. Near the close of the project, the Council of Justice stated that these would only
be rolled out to the whole judicial system pending completion of the consolidation and
reorganization of the court system that was underway. However, during the course of
2006 the Council, with assistance from UNDP, began developing new, broader case
management software to be applied to all cases and in all Georgian courts. In addition,
according to the judicial leadership, individual computing and audio recording facilities
provided under the project are being used by court staff. Importantly, increased judicial
budget resources should allow these new systems to be adequately maintained.

There are no plans for future Bank operations to support judicial reform at this time. In
the recent Country Partnership Strategy discussions the importance and benefits of the
Judiciary Project were highlighted. The Government has indicated its intention to move
forward with judicial reform on its own, reserving its limited IDA resources for other
priorities. It is useful to note that the new European Neighborhood Policy (ENP) Action
Plan signed with the EU in November 2006 identifies bringing the judicial sector into line
with EU standards as a top priority. In addition, UNDP assistance and court budget
resources are being used to establish an integrated computer network for the court system.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)



                                                11

The project objective was "to assist in the development of an independent and
professional judiciary, committed to high standards of judicial ethics and capable of
efficient, effective dispute resolution." The project supported key interventions to assist
in the establishment of the judiciary as an independent third branch of the Government
(PAD, page 2).

The overarching goal of establishing and maintaining an independent, effective judiciary
remains a relevant development priority for Georgia for a number of reasons. First,
the increasing formalization of the economy in response to other reform efforts has raised
the need for effective formal dispute resolution mechanisms that the judicial system can
provide. Indeed, this is more relevant today than at the onset of the project when there
was more of an imbalance between the formal and informal sectors. Second, as Georgia
continues in its efforts to stamp out corruption in the public sector, re-establishing the
"rule of law" as the guiding principal behind the relationship between the state, its
employees and the citizenry will be critical to sustaining these hard won gains. An
independent, ethical and competent judiciary remains essential to this effort. Moreover,
as the executive continues to consolidate its own authority following revolutionary
beginnings, it will be important for Georgia to ensure the similar continued
empowerment of countervailing branches of government in order to provide the checks
and balances of a modern democracy.

However, the design of the project underestimated the political complexities of
strengthening independence, as distinct from the technical requirements of strengthening
effectiveness, efficiency and professionalism in the judiciary. The components were well
designed for the latter, but less so for the former. Tackling independence head on
requires more than the constitutional reforms, it requires the focus and will of the
political leadership. Management and operational capacity within the judiciary is also
crucial to expanding judicial independence

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project did achieve its objectives of assisting the development of an independent and
professional judiciary committed to high standards of judicial ethics and capable of
efficient, effective dispute resolution. Increased salaries and judicial budgets and the
sustainability of the Judicial Training School and ALPE provide a foundation for
continued reform.

In terms of the performance indicators stated in the PAD: (a) project recommendations
for a new court administration system had begun to be implemented when the more
recent court reorganization was started; (b) computer hardware platform was supplied to
the courts but the piloted case management system was not installed in the intended
courts; (c) there has been a distinct improvement in public awareness and understanding
of the judicial system, including through improved coverage by the media and visibility
of the judges; (d) BEEPs results record increased trust (and lower perceptions of
corruption) in the judiciary.


                                                12

The project contributed to these achievements by strengthening the capacity of the
Georgian judicial system through: (i) improving the management of the judicial system;
(ii) increasing the skills and professional capacity of the judges and court employees; (iii)
substantial upgrade the infrastructure and technology for service delivery; and (iv)
raising awareness and support for these reforms among the public. In some of the smaller
components, namely, enforcement and legal drafting, the project did not have much
impact.

With respect to independence of the judiciary, the project itself provided only indirect
support for the strengthening of the judiciary viz a viz the other branches of government
by strengthening the capacity of the judiciary for self-governance and providing the tools
for improved operational performance.

Court and Case Management. This was one of the weaker components of the project.
The project provided extensive technical assistance to newly established judicial
management institutions, the Court Administration Committee (responsible for overall
administration of court budgets, personnel and procedures) and the Coordinating Council
of the Conference of Judges (responsible for general judicial governance) to reform court
administration procedures. Following the production of an extensive report and a long
period of internal consultations, these institutions gradually began implementing some of
the recommendations. However, following the change of government in 2003-04, the
strategic direction of the reform process shifted to focus on the reorganization of the
judiciary, led by a newly appointed High Council of Justice, which will consolidate about
75 courts into unified regional courts and magistrate courts. Until this is completed, the
Government has decided not to implement the court administration and case management
system more widely. In addition, implementation of the case management system was
significantly delayed under the project because of the amount of time required for
consultation on - and adoption of - the recommendations on court and case administration
by the Conference of Judges and a delay in the implementation details for the pilot
exercise. The Government and judiciary are now moving forward with an integrated
computer information network to facilitate case management document flows, though
based on a UNDP-supported system rather than the framework developed under this
project. Nevertheless, the project recommendations in this area may prove helpful as
implementation proceeds.

Skills and Professional Capacities. The project successfully and integrally supported
the strengthening of judicial training in Georgia. Extensive technical assistance was
absorbed by the Judicial Training Center, now reconstituted by a specific law as the High
School of Justice, to strengthen its management and delivery of training. Large numbers
of judges (approximately 320 each year) and court personnel (approximately 100 each
year) received improved training on a variety of court administration and substantive
issues. Moreover, these training programs have become institutionalized and will be
provided annually now that the High School is well-resourced directly through the
Georgian public budget.




                                              13

Infrastructure and Technology. The project supported a substantial upgrade in both
technology and infrastructure of the Georgian judicial and court system. Automation,
including Local Area Networks, was achieved in the Supreme Court and all District
Courts, while all other courts received smaller packages of computing hardware and
software, which are being used and will facilitate the introduction of a national case
management system at a future time. In addition, the project provided audio recording
equipment for a number of courts, including in the Supreme Court, which has helped to
ensure the integrity and accuracy of court hearings. Using local consultants financed by
the project, the GDC developed and successfully piloted case management software in
the Rustavi Court, using hardware also financed by the project. Efforts to revise the
software so that it incorporated international standards and was upgraded to apply to all
levels of Georgian courts were tied to the cancelled rollout of the system.

The majority of project financial resources went into the refurbishment, rehabilitation and
some new construction of court buildings. During preparation, the improvement in
judicial infrastructure was not highlighted as a key performance indicator, probably
because, at the time, the contribution of adequate courthouses to the conduct of justice
had not been well articulated, even though it was implicitly understood. However, due
to excellent management by the implementing agency -- GDC -- and resulting cost
savings, a total of 15 courts were rehabilitated and constructed versus the originally
envisioned 11 court buildings. Although a limited improvement among Georgia's current
75 court houses, the impact of these rehabilitations cannot be overstated. The old
buildings were run down, lacked sufficient courtrooms or chambers, and clerks' offices
were largely closed off from the public. The rehabilitated courts now have adequate
space for various proceedings, sufficient chambers for judges, and public access to the
clerks' offices has improved. There has been a tangible impact on the conduct of justice
in these buildings.

Efficiency has improved because now judges do not need to share chambers and
courtrooms and can consider cases and write decisions in a more professional
environment. Files are more readily accessible because of improved conditions for the
clerks. The GDC reports violations for cases pending beyond the procedural limits
dropped by 23 percent in the rehabilitated courthouses, versus a drop of 5 percent in other
courthouses.

The opportunity for ex parte communications have decreased because litigants and
lawyers no longer have unlimited access to judges' chambers, which are separated by
controlled access from the rest of the courthouse. This decreases opportunities for
corruption and increases the security of judges. Adequate courtrooms have replaced the
old practice of judges hearing matters in their offices, resulting in more transparent
proceedings.

Access to information and court records has improved because the new courthouses
include better space for the posting of notices and more open public access to the offices
of the clerks.




                                              14

Public Awareness, Trust and Visibility. The component in support of the Association
for Legal and Public Education (ALPE) was successful in raising public awareness,
understanding and visibility of the judiciary in Georgia through a variety of public
education and media campaigns and activities. Anecdotal evidence demonstrates a
better understanding of judicial process among journalists and the public, and both
journalists and judges have opined that ALPE has made a substantial contribution to
improving the relationship between the courts and the media. ALPE's Public Service
Announcements were also noted has having a strong impact, in particular one concerning
the right to protest which was aired at a critical junction during the Rose Revolution, and
another concerning the right to counsel. ALPE also has improved access to judicial
information and service standards by installing notice boards in all the courts and the
training of court personnel on public relations.

In general, through its support for the broader reform program, upgrading skills of
judicial personnel, and public awareness, the project can be credibly associated with an
increase in confidence in the judicial system in Georgia over the implementation period.
Independent survey data (EBRD-World Bank Business Environment & Enterprise
Performance Survey, BEEPS) indicates a dramatic improvement in the percentage of
firms that report confidence in the legal system to uphold property and contract rights,
from 29 percent in 1999 to 71 percent in 2005. The share of these respondents that judge
the courts to be fair/impartial and honest/uncorrupted has risen from around 22 percent to
30 percent between 2002 and 2005 (on par with broader ECA average and better than
CIS average results). However, fewer firms thought the courts were affordable and quick.

Other Aspects. The project did aim at improvement in a number of other areas, namely,
enforcement of court judgments and legal drafting, with smaller allocations of resources.
In the case of enforcement, the technical assistance was provided (through the larger
contract for the court administration component) and the equipment was delivered. The
BEEPS surveys show that a significant number of more firms believe that the courts are
able to enforce decision from 2002 (23 percent) to 2005 (62 percent). However, no data
exists on enforcement delays to confirm this, or the project's direct impact. Regarding
legislative drafting, this assistance was never delivered because of lack of interest and
repeated management changes at the Ministry of Justice



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

While precise calculations of rates of return were not required in this institution building
project, a few factors that affect the general efficiency of the project should be noted:

Significant savings were achieved in the civil works component to allow an additional 4
court buildings to be rehabilitated, and a number of smaller ones to receive minor works.




                                              15

The political developments and revised judicial reform priorities before, during and after
the Rose Revolution significantly slowed and reduced the impact of project activities in
Court Administration component and the Enforcement of Court Judgment component.
Despite the expenditure of resources on the Court Administration component, the impact
on court administration will depend on how widely the recommended improvements are
implemented following the conclusion of the Government's reorganization efforts. The
case management upgrade and rollout, estimated at approximately 2.5 percent of the cost
of the component, were not achieved.

Finally, the longer implementation period (six versus three years) almost doubled the
share of project resources going to project management (from 4.9 percent to 8 percent).

Overall, on balance the project is deemed to be less efficient than intended.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory for the following
reasons. While the project objective was overly broad, in particular the inclusion of
judicial independence as a goal, the project did contribute significantly to raising the
capacity of the judicial sector to deliver services through improvements in management,
skills and professionalism, technology, infrastructure and public awareness. Outcomes
under the infrastructure components are deemed to be "highly satisfactory"; those under
the public education and judicial training components are rated "satisfactory"; while the
court and case management and enforcement of court judgment components are rated
"moderately unsatisfactory" (the development of reform recommendations, provision of
hardware and case management pilot are balanced by uncertain system-wide impact due
to the cancelled rollout); and assistance to the MOJ is rated "unsatisfactory."

Achievement highlights include: (i) full rehabilitation of 15 courthouses (compared to the
target of 11), (ii) publication of all court decisions and creation of a public website that
received 2,000 visitors in the first five months, (iii) upgrade and institutionalization of
judicial training at the High School of Justice, and (iv) increased public education and
awareness. The ALPE component produced tangible results and significant outputs, and
has proven to be the sustainable, impartial entity envisaged during project preparation

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project supported institutional change through out the judiciary, but primarily
through the strengthening of ALPE and the Judicial Training Center. ALPE has
developed into a self-sustaining entity providing public education and awareness-building


                                               16

services. Its recent successful bids, through competitive tender processes, for providing
services to two EU projects is evidence of ALPE's impartiality and capabilities. The JTC,
now High School of Justice, is another excellent example of an embryonic institution
brought to maturation through support of the project, development of its institutional and
management structure, and support by the Government and donors. The expansion and
normalization of training programs for the judiciary and court personnel will continue to
help strengthen the institutional capacity of the entire judicial service for some time to
come. The project also helped to build institutional capacity for designing and
implementing court infrastructure (civil and technological) at the GDC and among the
various civil works contractors that worked on the project.

Beyond these particular institutions, change has been significant in terms of
improvements in the physical court buildings, and in the wide-spread publication of court
decisions and public outreach. This last is perhaps the most significant as it strengthens
the "demand" for good governance and rule of law.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

Despite the continued strong demand by some authorities and the public for reform of the
judiciary in Georgia, the risks to the development outcome remain significant. The most
critical unknown is whether the current reform process will: (a) succeed in "reducing
corruption" without severely impairing the independence of the judiciary from the
executive branch over the medium term; and (b) be able to quickly overcome the
reductions in efficiency from the removal of large numbers of judges. Maintenance and
support for the rehabilitated courthouses looks likely but will depend on the continued
provision of adequate judicial budgets and the technical capacity for the GDC which
must replace staff that worked on the project. Other outcomes such as the
institutionalization of the training program and the capacity for building and measuring
public awareness and confidence in the judiciary are likely to be maintained. Hopefully
the recent increases in judicial budgets ­ which the High Council of Justice determines
are sufficient to cover maintenance for the new courthouses, new construction plans and
salaries and benefits ­ continued improvements in court administration, and the
government's renewed attention to other areas of justice system reform such as the
procuracy and criminal, administrative and commercial law, augur well for the judicial
reform effort overall.




                                                17

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was prepared with significant research already in place: a Judicial
Assessment was carried out in April 1998, which thoroughly identified the
sector. Substantive preparatory work was carried out under the Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC ) I and SATAC II. The project, as designed, built
on both of those foundations and was a response to the Government's early steps in the
judicial reform arena. QSAs conducted in 2000 and 2002 found that the project design
had "good coherence" and that the design was "sound and innovative."

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Both the quality and quantity of the supervision by the Bank met the requirements in term
of numbers of adequately staffed missions, appropriate reporting and record-keeping.
Project supervision was reviewed by QAG in September 2000 and the Fifth Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA5) in October 2002, and rated both times as satisfactory.
Specifically, in 2002 the review positively noted the Task Team's routine engagement
with the authorities and donors regarding the broader legal and judicial reform policy
issues. Both Assessments noted, however, that Bank attention to measurable outcome
indicators was lacking and recommended revision of key indicators in order to better
track project outcomes. This action was not taken by the Bank team.

The Bank's engagement with the authorities after the Rose Revolution, characterized by a
shift in reform strategy and leadership (to the newly reconstituted High Council of
Justice) ultimately affected project outcomes. Staff report that consistent efforts to
engage on policy issues with the new leadership were not reciprocated. As a result, it
may have been appropriate for the Bank team formally to revise and narrow the
development objectives, adjust some project components (e.g., Ministry of Justice
assistance) and more actively review implementation progress of others (i.e., case
management rollout). However, because the project had already disbursed or committed
most of its resources, Bank efforts with the new Government were focused on the
completion of the civil works and renewing the case management activities, which in turn
required the prolonged extensions of project closure.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory in light of the substantial
preparatory work and uneven supervision effort throughout the project's implementation


                                              18

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating of "moderately unsatisfactory" for the Government's overall performance
recognizes the shifting Government commitment to the project's objectives and the
changing direction and lack of clarity in the implementation of judicial reform following
the Rose Revolution. Early support for the project's objectives was replaced by
indifference as the Shevardnadze administration stressed maintaining power over reform.
Problems with counterpart funding in the early years of the project and the lack of budget
support for reform efforts during this time also impacted the assessment of the
Government's performance. In addition, lack of leadership continuity in the MOJ made
it difficult to complete one project component. While the post-revolution renewal of the
Government's commitment to judicial reform was welcome, the lack of transparency in
implementation of the renewed reform efforts made it difficult to link this reform to
project outcomes

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

IBC PIU
The performance of the Project Implementing Unit was satisfactory. Through its capable
technical management, most project inputs were delivered as planned, financial and
procurement management was efficient and reporting was timely. While, PIU leadership
successfully addressed issues identified by financial management reviews, some initiated
activities (purchase of furniture and equipment for some courts) had to be covered by
Government funds lack of clarity in PIU project accounts.

High Council of Justice
The performance of the judicial leadership engaged in court administration and case
management was moderately unsatisfactory owing to its inability to effectively utilize the
technical assistance provided under the project.

GDC
The performance of the General Department for Courts was highly satisfactory, owing to
their efficient management of civil works despite numerous implementation problems
and leadership changes which resulted in this component out-performing plans and
expectations. While the GDC is a unit of the HCJ, it had specific responsibility for
implementing the civil works activities and therefore, is rated separately in this ICR.

MOJ
The performance of the Ministry of Justice is rated unsatisfactory owing to the delays in
utilizing project resources and the eventual cancellation of this component.



                                             19

ALPE
The performance of the Association for Legal Public Education was satisfactory, due to
their effective and energetic delivery of the public education campaign, media training
for the judiciary, and absorption of institution building TA to the point of becoming
financially independent.

JTC
The performance of the Judicial Training Center was also satisfactory, due to its effective
use of project resources and technical assistance. The JTC was able to use the project
and other donor assistance in order to build a respected training curricula and ultimately,
gain Government backing for its conversion into the permanent, Government-funded
High School for the Judiciary.

(c) Justification for Rating of Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating of "moderately satisfactory" is based on a combination of the moderately
unsatisfactory Government rating and the moderately satisfactory Implementing Agency
rating. According to Bank guidance, these ratings are balanced by the moderately
satisfactory overall rating for the project to produce the overall borrower performance
rating.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Two Clients in Judicial Reform Projects. As this project illustrated, both the
Government and the judiciary are the clients or beneficiaries of much of the assistance
provided through judicial reform projects. Bank teams must be prepared to negotiate and
work with both clients and, most importantly, must be prepared to mediate and arbitrate
as necessary between these two branches of government. In Georgia, even when the
political commitment to judicial reform weakened, the project was able to continue
making progress by focusing on components that more directly benefited the judiciary,
such as courthouse building rehabilitation and judicial training. However, even when the
Government and judicial leadership appear to agree on reform goals as they appear to do
following the Rose Revolution, these goals or their method of implementation may not be
in line with Bank project objectives. At these points, Bank teams, with support from
Bank management, need to carefully consider formal revision of project objectives and
implementation plans and directly engage both "clients" to reach agreement.

Government's and Judiciary's Consistent Commitment. One key lesson that has
emerged from the Bank's first cohort of judicial reform projects is that the paths to
judicial independence and reducing corruption in the judiciary remain highly political.
Indeed, over the life of this project, Georgia has seen several phases of judicial reform
with differing impacts on the achievement of project objectives. Successful legal and
judicial reform requires a sustained financial commitment from the government in terms
of salaries and operating resources. In Georgia's case, the erosion of salary increases and



                                               20

judicial budgets towards the end of the Shevardnadze Presidency weakened the initial
morale and commitment to wider reform efforts across the judiciary. It is hoped that the
more recent improvements in judicial salaries and budgets following the Rose Revolution
will be sustained and will strengthen reform efforts.

Fundamental reform of the judiciary from within can be accomplished but requires a
reasonably long time frame and a persistent focus on reform outcomes along the way. In
Georgia, this process was interrupted initially by a loss in political interest in reform and
later, following the Rose Revolution, by a new executive's revised objective to increase
judicial accountability through wholesale removal of judges. The change in Government
focus greatly influenced the judiciaries' own reform efforts and had a somewhat negative
impact on the conclusion of the Judicial Reform Project. It is not yet clear what the long
term impact of this renewed anti-corruption drive will be on the judicial independence
which remains important for a modern democracy such as Georgia.

Improving Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Systems. Lack of measurable
indicators and baseline information for each project component hindered the Bank team's
ability to evaluate implementation progress effectively. Clearer (and more numerous)
indicators and more diligent monitoring by the Bank and clients could have made it easier
for the Bank and the clients to adjust the project objectives and revises components
during implementation. Delays may have been better anticipated and overcome. Formal
monitoring efforts may have provided opportunities to work with the Shakaashvili
government as it moved forward with its own judicial reform efforts to restructure the
Judicial Reform Project and/or formally cancel those components to which the new
government could not commit.

Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The comments submitted by the High Council of Justice note the Government's
continued commitment to reforming Georgia's judicial system. Starting with
Constitutional amendments in late 2006 and carrying through with adopted and planned
implementing legislation, the Government has taken steps to strengthen judicial
independence. Continued institutional strengthening and the provision of increased
financial resources are promised to ensure that the reforms are fully realized. The HCJ's
comments also highlight the Government's plans to address existing shortcomings in the
public transparency of its initial efforts to reorganize the judiciary as noted in the ICR.
The HCJ comments note that the judiciary is moving forward with automating and
networking the courthouse system with assistance from UNDP and building on the initial
work completed under the Judicial Reform Project. However, these further reforms will
not take advantage of the initial case management software developed under JRP.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal
            Components              Estimate (USD Estimate
                                                       Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                           M)                (USD M)    Appraisal

COURT ADMINISTRATION                           3.06              3.09       100.98
INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION                                 7.00              6.83        97.57

ENFORCEMENT OF COURT
JUDGMENTS                                      0.23              0.19        82.61

ASSISTANCE TO THE MINISTRY
OF JUSTICE                                     0.28              0.04        14.29

JUDICIAL TRAINING CENTER                       0.80              0.53        66.25
PUBLIC
INFORMATION/EDUCATION                          1.38              1.60       115.94

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             0.65              1.08       166.15
                Total Baseline Cost           13.40             13.36
Physical Contingencies                         0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.00
                 Total Project Costs          13.40
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00              0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00              0.00         0.00
         Total Financing Required             13.40             13.36




(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
     Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage
                            Cofinancing     Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                            (USD M)           M)       of Appraisal

 Borrower                                         0.00             0.00
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                      13.40           13.50      100.75
ASSOCIATION




                                          22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

As reflected in PAD Annex 2                  Final Outputs

A. Court Administration and Case
Management ($3.1 million)

Court Administration Subcomponent             Court Administration and Case

Training program for managing judges &       Management Subcomponent

court administrators including workshops     Blueprint/master plan for improving court
and study tours                              and case administration in Georgia,

Technical assistance to Coordinating         covering (i) case management; (ii) case

Council of Conference of Judges on the       processing and chancery functions; (iii)

implementation of new court                  human resource & integrity management,

administration systems.                      (iv) court proceedings & enforcement; (v)
                                             budgeting and finance; (vii) governance
Case Management Subcomponent                 and administrative recommendations.
TA and training for development and          Training of judges and court personnel on
implementation of an effective case          case management and court administration
management and court administration          (see Component E below).
system.                                      Six study tours covering various aspects of
Workshops to facilitate contacts between     Court and Case Administration.
the Georgian judiciary and representatives
of developed judicial systems                Equipment, software and local technical
                                             assistance to pilot an automated case
Case Processing/Record Keeping               management system in Rustavi District
Subcomponent                                 Court.

TA and training to assist in the
establishment of an effective case
processing and record ­keeping system

Automation Subcomponent

Computerization (including training of       Local area networks (LANs), including
court personnel) for the Supreme Court and fiber optic cable and terminal computers
the Appellate Courts in Tbilisi, Kutaisi &   installed in Supreme Court and all District
Adjara and 8 District Courts with            Courts.
Demonstration and Administrative             In addition, 10 generators purchased for the
Functions                                    Supreme Court and the District Courts .
Packages of 1 PC, printer, UPS and           Packages of 1 PC, printer, UPS and
generator( if needed) to all other courts of generator( if needed) to all other courts of
general jurisdiction.                        general jurisdiction.
Establishment of network among all courts




                                            23

Court Reporting Subcomponent

Based on assessment of pilot, audio          Pilot project for court recording in Rustavi
recording machines for all judges            court.

                                             Court recording equipment for the Supreme
                                             Court and all District Courts.

B. Infrastructure Rehabilitation

Adaptation and rehabilitation (or            Rehabilitation and completion of 15 courts:
completion in some cases) of up to 11 court  Full Rehabilitation of Tbilisi & Kutaisi
buildings                                    Appellate Court, Achara Supreme Court,
Facilities for the Judicial Training Center: Gldani-Nadzaladevi, Krtsanisi-Mtatsminda
minor repairs to the proposed training       Rustavi, Telavi, Gori, Poti, Zugdidi,
center and rehabilitation of damaged space   Akhaltsikhe, Kutaisi City
in the Ministry of Justice building to meet
the project's training needs.                Partial Rehabilitation and refurbishment of
Completion of offices for the Department     Supreme Court, Isani-Samgori court and
of Logistical Services                       Mtskheta court

Minor rehabilitation works for the Ministry  Renovation of space for the JTC, which
of Justice building                          officially opened on June 8, 2001.


                                             Rehabilitation of office of for the
                                             Department of Logistical Services


                                             Renovations to the exterior facade and to
                                             installation of sanitary facilities and other
                                             renovations to the building of the MOJ

C. Enforcement of Court Judgments

Development of a master plan for the         Part of the consulting contract for
development of an efficient court            Component A1 Case Management and
enforcement function, including              Court Administration provided
assessment of technology and training        recommendations on the organization of
needs                                        court enforcement.

Training for bailiffs                        Study tour to the U.S. in April 2001.

Equipment needed by bailiffs for their       Training delivered to Marshal Service
activities                                   (bailiffs) which was created in Feb 2006.

                                             Equipment for the headquarters of the
                                             Enforcement Department and the 12
                                             regional bureaus.

D. Assistance to the Ministry of Justice




                                            24

Technical assistance to strengthen legal
drafting and harmonization activities

Limited computer equipment to strengthen   Small amount of computer equipment and
such activities                            peripherals.


E. Judicial Training Center

Preparation of a methodology,              The project financed an International
development and execution of training for  judicial education consultant for 1 year.
court support personnel                    Three study tours to judicial training
Training in bankruptcy procedures and any  facilities in the US, Bulgaria and Italy.
other priority area agreed to by JTC        Over the life of the project, approximately
Training of trainers program               320 judges were trained each year between

Study tours and workshops to facilitate    2000-2005 comprising 300 sitting judges

contacts between the Georgian judiciary    and 20 newly appointed judges. In 2005,

and representatives of developed judicial  the latter was around 70 newly appointed

systems.                                   judges.

                                           Similarly, around 100 technical court
                                           personnel were trained in each year during
                                           the same period, including in 2002 the
                                           entire corps of judges' assistants from the
                                           Supreme Court, the Tbilisi Appellate Court
                                           and all Tbilisi and Rustavi Regional Court.
                                           Also in 2002, skills training were provided
                                           to 72 court staff on telephone skills, team
                                           building and public relations. The module
                                           was videotaped for future use.

                                           In 2005, the number of non-judicial court
                                           personnel trained by the JTC rose to 250.

                                           Approximately 40% of training courses
                                           each year were conducted in the regions.

                                           JTC trainers were largely experienced
                                           judges and well-known local legal experts
                                           who provided written materials to
                                           supplement lectures and seminars. Also
                                           used some foreign experts.

F. Public Information/Education

Mass media campaigns                       All decisions of the Supreme Court and

Creation and dissemination of public       selected appellate court decisions are

education materials                        published.
                                           Developed radio series and two television
Seminars & other outreach activities,      programs which, based on viewers'


                                          25

including newsletter                        feedback, proved "increasingly popular".

In-class and extracurricular activities in  Launched an advertising campaign on anti-

schools and universities                    corruption and the rule of law in the Tbilisi
                                            metro.
Database of journalists and training for a  Established website (www.samartli.ge)
group of core journalists in advance legal  which received over 2,000 visitors in its
reporting                                   first five months (especially impressive
Opinion research and analysis               considering that Georgia counts only
                                            30,000 internet users).
Establishment of an internal coordination   Trained journalists.
mechanism among entities involved in        Trained judges on media relations.
judicial reform                             Trained court employees on customer
                                            relations.
                                            Newsletter for judges ( issues and
                                            periodicity).
                                            3 series of social advertisements on
                                            citizen's rights.
                                            Other Public Service Announcements
                                            PSAs developed.
                                            Open days in court for visits by students
                                            supported.
                                            Helped to underwrite the first three annual
                                            meetings of the Conference of Judges.
                                            Distributed copies of the Code of Conduct
                                            to all judges.




                                           26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                        27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
       Names                Title            Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Frances M. Allen    Operations Analyst   LEGJR      Project Implementation

David S. Bernstein  Senior Public Sector
                    Specialist           ECSPE      TTL for closing

Elene Imnadze       Sr. Public Sector
                    Specialist           ECSPE      Anti-corruption

Plamen Stoyanov     Procurement
Kirov               Specialist           ECSPS      Procurement

Friedrich Peloschek Consultant           LEGEC      TTL until 10/01/05
Eric N. Peterson    Consultant           ECSIE      Infrastructure Rehab
Karl Skansing       Consultant           ECSPS      Procurement
                    Sr. Financial
Arman Vatyan        Management           ECSPS      Financial Management
                    Specialist




(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                        28

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                USD Thousands
          Stage of Project Cycle
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel
                                                                and consultant
                                                                     costs)
Lending
                  FY98                                                      28.91
                  FY99                                                     195.90
                  FY00                                      2               15.49
                  FY01                                      1                1.28
                  FY02                                                       0.00
                  FY03                                                       0.00
                  FY04                                                       0.00
                  FY05                                                       0.79
                  FY06                                                       0.00
                  FY07                                                       0.00
                                    Total:                  3              242.37
Supervision/ICR
                  FY98                                                       0.00
                  FY99                                                       0.00
                  FY00                                     39              114.09
                  FY01                                     26              102.00
                  FY02                                     35              148.36
                  FY03                                     26              122.03
                  FY04                                     21              152.64
                  FY05                                      4               56.11
                  FY06                                      9               46.39
                  FY07                                      8               37.75
                                    Total:                168              779.37

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                            Actual Disbursements
        Archived             DO                 IP               (USD M)
1   12/27/1999         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      0.55
2   05/04/2000         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      0.77
3   12/29/2000         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      1.22
4   06/26/2001         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      2.71
5   12/26/2001         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      3.84
6   06/27/2002         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      5.94



                                        29

7 12/24/2002    Satisfactory    Satisfactory     7.55
8 06/24/2003    Satisfactory    Satisfactory     8.16
9 11/26/2003    Satisfactory    Satisfactory    10.01
10 06/04/2004   Satisfactory    Satisfactory    11.46
11 12/29/2004   Satisfactory    Satisfactory    12.46
12 06/29/2005   Satisfactory    Satisfactory    12.88

13 06/27/2006   Moderately      Moderately
               Satisfactory   Satisfactory      13.33

14 06/28/2006   Moderately      Moderately
               Satisfactory   Satisfactory      13.33




                               30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
none




                                    31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
none




                                  32

Annex 7: Summary Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

To: World Bank Office Tbilisi

Georgian Supreme Council of Justice reviewed the document prepared by the World
Bank team regarding Georgia Judicial Reform Support Project. We would like to let you
know that the document fully describes the judicial reform which started in 1997,
however the document needs some revisions. Also, it must be noted that in 2005-2006
and in the first quarter of 2007 many reforms were implemented with regards to
independence of judiciary, efficient and accessible judicial services, which were not
reflected in the document and which must be noted. In particular:

    1. Institute of Magistrate Judges and Narrow Specialization of Judges

During the judicial reform, establishment of the institute of magistrate judges was put on
agenda because such institutes are successfully functioning in many European countries
as well as in the United States of America. This institute makes judicial services more
easily accessible. In addition, its main function is to discuss and resolve small disputes in
a prompt and simple manner. For this purpose, in the reform of general courts priority
was given to consolidation of district (city) courts and appointment of magistrate judges,
as well as their narrow specialization.

Process of court consolidation started in 2005. Since May 5, 2005 on the bases of five
district courts Tbilisi unified city court was established. The court had three independent
specialized panels (panels of civil cases, criminal cases and administrative cases). Since
September 18, 2006 rayon court of Mtskheta started to function. It includes four
magistrate judges who carry out their functions in Akhalgori, Dusheti, Tianeti and
Kazbegi. Since March 1, 2007 rayon courts in Akhalkalaki and Sachkhere started to
function which included one magistrate judges each. These judges carried out their duties
in Ninotsminda and Sachkhere respectively. Since May 1, 2007 rayon court started
functioning in Khashuri, which had one magistrate judge. This judge will carry out his
duties in Kareli.

Magistrate judges review cases unilaterally. In case of necessity, in order to avoid delays
in case discussions, chairman of rayon (city) court may assign magistrate judge to discuss
the case outside the territory of his duty i.e. in other administrative territorial unit.

It is also planned to provide narrow specialization within each panel and their preparation
accordingly. This is aimed at increasing qualification of judges in case discussion and
improving quality of judicial services.

    2. Independence of Courts

Many successful efforts were made with regards to ensuring court independence. This
must be regarded as justification of continued reforms and the government's good will.



                                               33

In December 2006 important constitutional amendments were carried out, according to
which rights of the president in implementing judicial authority was limited. In addition,
in order to ensure court independence, many issues were resolved on the level of
constitutional law. These issues included: appointment and release of judges, definition
of the new status of the Supreme Council of Justice, imperative determination of majority
of judges in the supreme council of judges and other issues. According to constitutional
amendments, Supreme Council of Justice is no longer the president's consultation body,
and this fact ensures full independence of judiciary. Whereas, in many developed
countries of the world the president and executive authority are interfering in some form
into the activities of judiciary, in Georgia the above action proves the development of
democratic processes in Georgia.

One more solid guarantee of judicial independence is non-replacement of judges and their
appointment for unlimited tenure. In many developed countries of the world, these issues
are regulated on the level of supreme law. One priority of judicial reform in Georgia is
unlimited tenure of judges and this is reflected in various documents, in particular,
obligations towards European and euro-Atlantic organizations, completion of these
obligations, will to some extent accelerate Georgia's integration into European and euro-
Atlantic environment; action plan for reform strategy of criminal law, which describes in
detail specific planned activities including time-terms and financing sources of these
activities; plan of the Government of Georgia on implementing the EU-Georgia action
plan within the framework of European neighborhood policy, which also explicitly
defines planned actions. Creation of legislative bases for appointment of judges for
unlimited tenure is planned for the year 2007.

    3. Supreme Council of Justice

As a result of the implemented reform the Supreme Council of Justice really became a
body which is independent from executive and legislative authorities and which makes
decisions on selection, obtaining the candidates, appointment, promotion of judges and
other issues. Currently the Council has 19 members and majority, 10 of them, are judges.
The fact that the majority of members are judges is defined by constitutional norm, which
provides that more than half of the Council members shall be members elected by self
governance body of general courts of Georgia in accordance with the rule defined by law.
The council is chaired by the chairman of the supreme court of Georgia and not the
president.

Georgian Parliament by two hearings has adopted amendments to organic law of
Georgian on General Courts. According to these amendments the Supreme Council of
Justice shall receive from the President the following authorities: establishment of rayon
(city) courts and definition of its acting territory, definition of acting territory for
magistrate judge, determination of the number of judges (magistrate judges),
establishment of special panels and chambers of judges and definition of the number of
judges in their composition, appointment of the chairman of court panel (chambers and
investigation panels), appointment of court chairman and deputies, release from the



                                            34

position of judges, court chairmen, deputy court chairmen, court panel chairmen
(chambers and investigation panels), removal of a judge from a case discussion, receipt
of vow from judges and adoption of the text of the vow, approval of judges' qualification
exams and adoption of its provision, approval of regulation for the Supreme Court of
Justice, approval of the program for conduction of qualification exams, approval of the
structure and provision of the General Department Courts, approval of the uniform and
sign of the court guards (mandatur), approval of judiciary symbols (uniform,
differentiating signs), and encouragement measures for judges.

The president of Georgia shall no longer appoint the Supreme Council Secretary. He/she
shall be elected by the conference of Georgian judges.

The ICR provides that the Supreme Council of Justice still has certain role for the
Prosecutor General, which is not true. Based on the legislative amendment of May, 2006
the Prosecutor General is no longer the member of the Council and his vote increased the
number of votes of judges, although the role of the prosecutor general was very
insignificant. However, it should be noted that in many developed countries of the world
prosecutor general's vote is still considered in similar bodies.

    4. Selection and Appointment of Judges

There is a concern expressed in the ICR regarding dismissal of judges and unfair
selection criteria. We can not agree with this opinion, because dismissal of judges was
not the goal of the judicial reform. The judges were dismissed within the framework of
institutional changes of the court system and such changes were implemented in other
areas of the public sector as well. In particular, courts of solely appeal and cassation were
established and in the first instance courts, main focus was given to narrow specialization
of judges and court consolidation.

Qualification exams for judges (per their specialization) are conducted since 2005. Since
then 5 such exams were carried out. 550 judges passed the exam successfully. During this
period, 6 selection competitions were announced and as a result, 92 judges were
appointed. In total, 16.7% of all examinees were appointed to the position of judges. All
92 judges took training course at the Supreme Council of Justice. Current judges
occasionally take training courses. For May it is planned to have another qualification
exam of judges.

It is noteworthy that an attitude towards the candidates for judges has changed drastically.
Decisions on their appointment are made not based on personal links and other unfair
methods but based on their high qualification and morale. It is also important that after
the interview, each candidate takes psychological tests and experienced psychologists
prepare conclusions on each candidate. Selection of candidates is based on their
education, intellect, professional experience, personal characteristics, motivation, attitude
towards his duties, communication skills, morale and ethic capacities and other criteria.
We think that such selection will have positive outcomes.




                                              35

The ICR provides that selection process of judges is not transparent. In order to avoid
having such a public opinion regarding selection process, activities for ensuring publicity
of the selection process were elaborated and planned this year. In particular, data on 190
candidates were published on supreme court's web-page and public could access these
data. As a result, the public could get actively involved in the selection process. They
could send their opinion via email as well as in writing to the Supreme Council of Justice.
We think that such a campaign will also have positive outcome.

At the High School of Justice in 2006, 24 seminars were held for re-training of judges.
Out of these, 3 seminars were held for assistants to judges. The seminars were held in
Tbilisi as well as in other regions of Georgia ­ Batumi, Chakvi, Kobuleti, Bakuriani,
Borjomi. Total of 550 participants attended the seminars. The seminars were dedicated to
material as well as procedural law. Such topics as Labor Code, specifics of tax disputes
and issues of underage cases were also discussed at the seminars.

Trainings were carried out for active judges and their assistants in criminal law by
Norwegian Rule of Law Advisors' mission and Supreme Council of Justice in 2006.
These seminars were split into 8 two-day modules and each had 21 participants. Four
modules were conducted for judges and the other 4 ­ for judges' assistants. The topic of
these seminars was Criminal Law, in particular, Article 6.1 of Human Rights' European
Convention, "Right to Fair Court".

It must also be noted that Article 69 of the organic law of Georgia on General Courts,
envisages mandatory training course at the Higher School of Justice for all appointed
judges before they assume their duties. The duration of this training course is determined
by the Supreme Council of Justice but it shall not exceed 3 months.

It is noteworthy, that since 2007 new High School of Justice will start functioning. One
of the criteria for appointing a judge will be the results of his/her studies in this school
and this will ensure high quality of the judiciary.

    5. Creating the Motivation System for Judges and Court Office Staff

Main pre-requisite for successful judicial reform is radical improvement of the work of
court office staff. Without this component it is impossible to ensure good functioning of
the court system and increase in trust to the judiciary, because the court staff have direct
contact with the public.

One of the goals of the reform was to eliminate problems existing for years: irresponsible
approach to work, rude responses to the public and disorganized manner of work among
court staff.

Fair selection processes were carried out and new staff hired which was more qualified
and responsible.

For the purpose of creating and improving motivation system for judges and court staff in



                                             36

last years, salaries of judges and court staff were increased, working conditions
improved, and logistics updated. Based on legislative changes judges' salaries were
significantly increased: in the first instance courts minimum salary is GEL 1,450, average
of GEL 2,000 ­ in courts of appeal and up to GEL 3,000 ­ 4,000 in the Supreme Court.
On January 25, 2006 the president of Georgia issued Order No. 78, according to which
judges of General Courts, according to their work load, may (by the decision of the
Supreme Council of Justice) receive bonus of no more than the compensation for their
position.

Significant changes were undertaken regarding compensation of staff at the general
courts and assistant staff. Their salaries were increased several times during 2005.
According to the decision of January 26, 2007 by the Supreme Council of Justice their
salaries were re-defined. To date, their salaries range between GEL 200-1,250 and
assistant staff get minimum salaries of GEL 130.

It should also be noted that since January 1, 2007 it is planned to again increase
remuneration for judges and court staff. Also, for 2007-2010 it is planned to ensure
unified status of judges, which envisages establishing unified social guarantees which is
provided in the working plan for implementation of criminal law reform strategy.

    6. Disciplinary Measures of Judges

New model of disciplinary measures of judges is one more vital part of the reform.
Mechanism defined in the law of Georgia on Disciplinary Measures for General Courts'
Judges and Disciplinary Case Management is the only internal monitoring tool of court
system. The model before that was revised several times but it still was not in compliance
with the recommendation of October 13, 1994 by European Council Committee of
Ministers on Independence, Efficiency and Role of Judges. According to this
recommendation disciplinary violations conducted by judges shall be monitored by
independent and competent body and in a timely manner and shall not be delayed. This
principle is envisaged by the amendments made under the reform. These amendments
significantly change the existing model, and this ensures rapid and effective functioning
of this mechanism.

Based on the above legislative amendments disciplinary council was abolished and
disciplinary panel created instead in the Supreme Council of Justice. The panel consists
of six members, out of which three are judges. It must be also noted that in order to
ensure independence of the body carrying our disciplinary measures, a special rule for
election of the panel member judges was created. In particular, Georgian judges'
conference or administrative committee of the conference of judges (between the
conference sessions) will elect the panel member judges. Also, principle of court
supervision over disciplinary case management was approved ­ decision of disciplinary
panel can be appealed at disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court, which consists of
three judges. It is noteworthy that as different from the other models, in the new system
the disciplinary chamber is authorized to investigate ­ assess the case.




                                              37

A member of the Supreme Council of Justice, who is the member of disciplinary panel
does not participate in sessions regarding disciplinary issues and in decision making.

Disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court of Georgia is a court of cessation for judges'
disciplinary responsibility issues. It is elected by the plenum of the Supreme Court by
nomination of the Supreme Court Chairman. It is important that the disciplinary chamber
reviews the decision made by the panel not only with regards to legal procedures (as was
before) but also considers the whole plea, factual as well as legal bases of the made
decision and fairness of the sentence.

It is noteworthy that the Parliament of Georgia by two hearings adopted amendments to
the law on Georgia on Disciplinary Measures for General Courts' Judges and
Disciplinary Case Management, according to which violation of law by a judge shall not
be used as a bases for his/her disciplinary responsibility.

    7. Case Management

The ICR negatively comments on case management and court administration in general
courts. It must be noted that in 2006, by the assistance of UNDP and partially by a court's
own resources, integrated computer network is planned to be established. This network
will resolve many problems existing at courts to date and will ensure fast case resolution.
Software for the integrated network will be implemented in parallel to court consolidation
and infrastructure rehabilitation. It is noteworthy that in 2006 working group was
established for preparation of materials and this group has already prepared relevant
project.

First of all, integrated computer network will ensure provision of judges with new
information (legislative changes, by laws, decisions of the Supreme Court). Electronic
version of amendments published in the official publication will be disseminated through
the network the same day and judges in all regions of the country will be able to view it
without delay. Court decisions will also be put in the network and this will facilitate
implementation of integrated court practice and interested persons will have a better
access to the information of their interest.

Creation of integrated computer information network will facilitate implementation of
unified electronic document flow and case management systems. These systems will
ensure uninterrupted exchange of procedural, organizational correspondence and which
in the long run will support improvement of case management quality. In particular, it
will eliminate work duplication, increase in quality of court information processing, rapid
case management, and permanent skills improvement of judges and other court staff.
Also, court's self control will increase ­ reveal of violation of deadlines or deadlines of
case management, timely processing of statistical and analytical information and ensuring
public access of information. All the above mentioned will be managed by putting
information on court decisions, court hearing schedules and case processing in internet,
thus allowing for better public access.




                                             38

    8. Court Order

Due to the situation at general courts in Georgia, new mechanism was introduced for
elimination of any attempts to hamper court processes. Using experience of many
countries, a court guards' mechanism was introduced since January 2006, which ensures
court order during case hearings. Although, it is not analogue of marshals existing in
Europe and the United States of America but similar to them court guards ensure safety
of judges and other participants of court hearings and watch for court order in the court
building and in the court rooms.

All the above, (including provision of special area in the court rooms for video recording)
is directed to elimination of any impediments to case hearings and in general, activities of
judges. This in its turn will support the most important issue ­ unimpeded conduct of
justice.

It is important that High School of Justice has provided and plans to provide in the future,
training for court guards which includes theoretical as well as practical training.

    9. Court of Jury

According to action plan for implementation of criminal law strategy approved in 2006
one of the planned actions is to introduce court of jury. It will include approval of the
competence of jury, adoption of jury's regulation, reconstruction of court rooms,
arranging 100 hearings in courts of appeal in Tbilisi and Kutaisi for the initial stage,
creation of special fund for costs related to work and location of jury, publication of
brochures for popularization of the innovations related to and the role of jury.

The Parliament is now discussing new criminal procedural code in which separate
chapter is provided to the jury. According to the draft, jury is an independent body which
discusses criminal cases under its competence and consists of 12 juries and a judge.
There are strict criteria for selection of jury. The main goal for introduction of jury is to
increase court independence, have public more involved in justice and more importantly,
ensure fair court decisions. The draft code defines issues related to selection, dismissal,
compensation of jury, appeal to the verdict made by jury and other issues.

One more argument in favor of the reform is also amendments made to civil procedural
law. The goal of these amendments was to make justice more accessible to public,
avoiding delays in case discussions and fast and effective decision making. As a result,
justice became absolutely accessible for socially vulnerable and insolvent persons.
Therefore, we can not agree with the assessment in ICR that with regards to public
awareness more focus is made on criminal rather than civil law. It must be noted, that
draft amendments were prepared in close cooperation with foreign experts.

The ICR positively comments on the activities of the Department of General Courts.



                                              39

However, the role of the Supreme Council of Justice is rated unsatisfactory. We would
like to note that General Courts' Department is a structural unit of the Supreme Council
of Justice and all activities implemented at the Department were completed under
coordination of the Supreme Council of Justice.




                                          40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Georgia - Judicial Assessment - April 1998
ALPE - About Us
Quality of Supervision Assessment - September 2000
Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) - October 2002
Annual Report of the Judicial Training Center - 2002
Public Awareness and the Rule of Law - Ariel Cohen & Associates - June 1998
A Focus Group Report on Legal Reform in Georgia - July 1999
Judicial Reform in Georgia - A Study of Public Opinion - February 2000
Communicating Judicial Reform in Georgia - February 2001
Judicial Reform in Georgia - A Study of Court Users - September 2002
Court Management Associates - Chapter 1 - Revision of the Case Processing System and
Modernization of the Chancellery Offices of the Courts of Georgia - September 2001
Court Management Associates - Chapter 2 - Modernization of Case Management in the
Courts of Georgia - September 2001
Court Management Associates - Chapter 3 - Integrity Management in the Courts of
Georgia - August 2001
Court Management Associates - Chapter 4 - Courtroom Proceedings and Courtroom
Recording, Budget and Finance, and Personnel Systems - August 2001
Court Management Associates - Chapter 5 - Governance and Administrative
Recommendations - September 2001
Court Management Associates - Report - Enforcement of Civil Judgments - September
2001
Country Assistance Strategy - 1997
BEEPS - 2005

Supervision Missions - Aide Memoires

       July 10 ­ 25, 2006
       December 12 ­ 16, 2005
       June 12 ­ 22, 2005
       March 8 ­ 12, 2004
       December 15 ­ 19, 2003
       January 22 ­ 20, 2003
       October 8 ­ 17, 2002




                                          42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                GEORGIA
                    40°E                                                            42°E                                                                     44°E


              44°N
                                                                                                                                                                                       44°N               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
                               R U S S I A N                  F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                         AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS

              To                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
              Soai                                                                                                                                             GEORGIA                                    RIVERS
                                                  C
                                                            a                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                          Gagra                                             u                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                      c                                                                                                                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARY
                                                                                                a
                                           A B K H A Z I A                                                   s                                                                                            AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                Mestia
                                                                                                                     u                                                          To                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     Suhumi                                                                                                                             Vladikavkaz
                                                                                                                                 s

                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

                                                  Ochamchira
                                                      K o l k h i d a    Tkvarceli
                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                        Dzvari                                                                 o    Mqinvartsveri                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                      (5047 m)                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                     Low                                                                                                  u            Kazbegi             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                              Inguri                                                  Oni                                          n
                                                                        land      Zugdidi                                         Ambrolauri                                                t
                                                                                                                                                               South                                  a
                                                                                                                                        Sachkhere            Ossetia
                                                                                        SenakiTskenisckali           Rioni

                                                                                                                           Tkibuli                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                             Kvirilk
                       Black           Sea                                                                       Kutaisi                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                    Ts'khinvali
                                                                                                                                                    Chinvali
                                                                  Poti                                                                                                                            Iori
                                                                                      Rioni           Samtredia                                                                                                                     s
              42°N                                                                                                                                                                              Akhmeta                                                                   42°N
                                                                                                                                                                     Gori
                                                                                                                                               Khashuri                                                         Telavi
                                                                                      Ozurgeti                                                               Mtkvari(Kura)
                                                                                                                                                                                         Mtskheta
                                                                  Kobuleti                                                                                                                                                      Alazani      Lagodehi


                                                                            AADJJAARRAA                                                                                             T'BLISI                         Gurjaani

                                                        Batumi
                                                                                                               Akhaltsikhe                                                                                         Iori                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rustavi                                                          Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                   Marneuli

                                                                                                                                            Ahalkalaki                                                                                    Tsiteli-
                                                                                                                                                                                Kazreti                                                   Tskaro


                                                                                                                                                 Ninocminda                                                         Mtkvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Iori
                                     To
                                   Trabzon                                                                                                                                                                                       (Kura)
                                                                                  T U R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yevlax               Mingechevir
                  0     20    40   60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                                               Reservoir
NOVEMBER
                                                                                  To                                                                                                                                           A Z E R B A I J A N                             IBRD
                  0   10   20   30   40   50 Miles                              Erzurum                                       To                                    A R M E N I A
                                                                                                                            Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                                                       33410
                                                                                                                                                       Armavir                             Lake
        2004                                                                                                                                                                              Sevan
             40°E                                                                42°E                                                                         44°E                                                                     46°E

