Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3263 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Judicial Reform Project)
between
GEORGIA 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3263 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1999, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
by agreement reached through exchange of letters (the EU-TACIS Grant 
Agreement), the Commission of the European Union has agreed to make a Grant under its 
European Union Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States program 
(the EU-TACIS Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of one million 
Euro (EUR 1,000,000) to assist in financing Part E of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the EU-TACIS Grant Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for \0cgoods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ALPE” means the Association for Legal and Judicial Public Education, an 
association established pursuant to its charter dated June 18, 1999, as the same may 
be amended from time to time; 
(b)
“DCDA” means the District Court with Demonstration and Administrative 
Function located in Krtsanisi, Telavi, Rustavi, Zugdidi, Gori, Akhaltskhe, and Batumi 
and such other locations as the Borrower and the Association may agree; 
(c)
“DECD” means the Department for Enforcement of Court Decisions of the 
Borrower under the supervision of MOJ (as hereinafter defined) and established 
pursuant to the Law on the Department for the Enforcement of Court Decisions of May 
1999.  
(d)
“DLS” means the Department for Logistical Support established pursuant to 
the Law on Judiciary, dated July 7 1997;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1)  through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“JTC” means the Judicial Training Center, a foundation established 
pursuant to the Civil Code of Georgia, whose Charter was registered on March 5, 1998 
as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(h)
“Lari” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice; 
(j)
“PIU” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Unit established within 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations under the supervision 
of the Investment Council chaired by the President of Georgia; 
(k)
“Project Account” means the account to be established for the purposes of 
making available the Borrower’s contribution to the Project, referred to in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,900,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2009 and ending May 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2019 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  4
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, under 
the general coordination of the Borrower’s Council of Justice, carry out Parts A and B 
of the Project through the DLS, Part C of the Project through the DECD, Part D of the 
Project through the MOJ, cause JTC to carry out Part E of the Project, and cause ALPE 
to carry out Part F of the Project, all with assistance in procurement and 
disbursement matters by the PIU and all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the other provisions of this Section, the 
Borrower shall make adequate arrangements to make available as grants to: (i) JTC the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (3) (b) of the table 
set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) ALPE the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (2) (b) and 3 (c) of the table 
set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants  
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the PIU, establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
Page  5
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the PIU:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 1999 or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-months period following the period 
covered by said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-months period 
following the period covered by said report;
(A) describes physical progress in the Project implementation, both cumulative and for 
the period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and sets forth the status of procurement 
under the project and the expenditures under the contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.      
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Page  6
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The charter of JTC or ALPE have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations of JTC or 
ALPE respectively or their ability to perform any of their obligations under this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JTC or ALPE or for the 
suspension of their operations. 
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the EU-TACIS Grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the EU-TACIS Grant Agreement 
providing therefor; 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and an initial deposit in Lari 
equivalent to not less than $120,000 has been made; 
(b)
independent auditors acceptable to the Association have been identified 
and adequate arrangements for the establishment of the financial management system 
have been made. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Page  7
Georgia
Telex:
212 348 MOFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
 General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Works
   4,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
84% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
Page  8
expenditures,
(a) for Parts A through    
   2,010,000
100% of local
D of the Project
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other
items procured locally
(b) for ALPE under
     150,000
Part F of the Project
(3)
Consultants’
100% of foreign   
services and 
expenditures and
training including
80% of local 
study tours and
expenditures 
workshops:
(a)
for Parts A through
     770,000 
D of the Project
(b)
for JTC under Part E
     520,000 
of the Project
(c)
for ALPE under Part F     860,000
of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating  costs:
100%
(a)  PIU
     259,000
(b) ALPE
     100,000
(5)
Unallocated
   1,040,000
   _________
TOTAL
   9,900,000
   ========= 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures, as approved by 
the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Association, with respect to 
the implementation of the Project incurred by: (i) the PIU regarding office supplies, 
utilities, minor office equipment, refurbishment and furniture, salaries of staff, 
maintenance of the Special Account, and audit cost of the Project account; and (ii) 
the ALPE regarding office lease and office supplies, salaries of staff, utilities, 
organization and execution of training and public information events and workshops. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) 
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iv) works under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 each and each contract procured under the 
provisions of Part C.1 and Part C.4 of Section I of Schedule 3 with the exception of 
the first contract, respectively,  procured under any such procurement method; (v) 
incremental operating costs; and (vi) training. 
Page  9
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
Page  10
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $1,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
Page  11
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report, provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist in the development of an independent 
and professional judiciary, committed to high standards of judicial ethics and capable 
of efficient and effective dispute resolution.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A - Court Administration and Case Management 
1.
Development and carrying out a training program for managing judges and court 
administrators including workshops and study tours, and provision of technical 
assistance for the implementation of the new court administration system. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training for the development and 
implementation of an effective case management systems and organization of workshops 
to facilitate contact between the Borrower’s judiciary and representative of developed 
judicial systems. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training for the establishment of an 
effective case processing and record keeping system. 
4.
(a)
Provision and installation of computerization for the Supreme Court of 
Georgia, the Appellate Chambers in Tbilisi and Kutaisi and eight DCDAs, internal 
networks for the Supreme Court of Georgia, the Appellate Chambers in Tbilisi and 
Kutaisi and eight DCDAs, one desktop computer and audio recording machines for each 
First Instance Court in Georgia, and provision of training of judges and court 
personnel required therefor.
(b)
Establishment of a network for the entire court system in Georgia and 
development and operation of an informative website for the court system and its 
users. 
5.
Provision and installation of multi-track audio recording machines for the 
Supreme Court of Georgia and the collegiums of the district courts in Tbilisi and 
Kutaisi, and provision of training and technical assistance needed therefor. 
Part B – Infrastructure Rehabilitation 
1.
Development of planning standards and programmatic instructions for new court 
designs, construction of the Appellate Court in Tbilisi, rehabilitation of the 
Appellate Courts in Kutaisi and Batumi, carrying out of essential rehabilitation works 
of the DCDA, the district Court in Gldani (Tbilisi) and such other court facilities as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree.  
2.
Carrying out minor repairs of the training centers at Tskaltubo. 
3.
Carrying out minor repairs and rehabilitation works of the MOJ building. 
Page  12
4.
Completion of facilities of DLS. 
Part C – Enforcement of Court Judgements
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen the 
DECD.  
Part D – Assistance to the Ministry of Justice
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to strengthen the organization 
and legal drafting and legal harmonization function of the MOJ. 
Part E – Judicial Training 
1.
Assistance in the development of a methodology for the training of court 
personnel, including assistant judges, clerical staff of the chancery and technical 
support staff, organization of training programs, including training of trainers 
program. Organization of study tours and workshops to facilitate contacts between the 
judges of the Georgian judiciary and representatives of developed judicial systems. 
Organization and carrying out training for judges of the Supreme Court of Georgia.
Part  F – Public Information and Education
Carrying out a comprehensive public information and education campaign to raise 
appreciation among the population about the importance of an independent judiciary and 
the judicial reform efforts undertaken, including: Development of a baseline study to 
assess the degree of trust and satisfaction with the judicial system by users of the 
judiciary.
Provision of technical assistance to launch the public information campaign and 
to build capacity within Georgia to carry out effective communications about the legal 
and judicial systems.
 Regularly monitoring and provision of feedback to the judiciary on the public’s 
attitude vis-à-vis the new system, using the baseline study mentioned above as a 
reference.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and in 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for goods 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure The bidding procedure for computers shall be 
Page  13
carried out in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  national  shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; (ii) the first contract for works procured each under the provisions 
of Parts C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule; (iii) all contracts for works exceeding 
$500,000; and (iv) any contract procured under direct contracting, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  3.
Post 
Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  14
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the Guidelines: “Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for architectural designs under Part B of 
the Project and for public information/education under Part  F of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for small specialized architectural design contracts under Sections 2, 
3 and 4 of Part B of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for public information under Part F of the Project and for management 
of the Project, tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower, shall at all times during execution of the Project: 
(a)
employ through the DLS a coordinator with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association; and maintain the PIU under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
The Borrower shall, at all times during execution of the Project, cause JTC and 
ALPE to employ managers with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association. 
3.
Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Account 
and make quarterly deposits therein in such amounts as shall be adequate to 
re-establish a balance of not less than the equivalent of $120,000.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 1, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 15, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
