E547
Vol. 1
PROJECT: ROAD MAINTENANCE PREPARATION -
ALBANIA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN - Year 2002 [The
Prelimirary Year]
This Set of Informative Notes must be read in conjunction with the respective
elements of the Consultants Inception Report that apply, especially,
Annexure 1 The Road Asset Management System,
Annexure 2, The Road Sector Organisational Development Process, and
Annexure 6, The Development of Local Community Contractors.
Introduction
The Consultants Inception Report for the Road Maintenance Project was published in
December 2001. The report included a Road Sector Organisational Development Process
which covered the envisaged four year period of the implementation for the World Bank
sponsored Road Maintenance Programme for the national and district roads in Albania.
The Organisational Development Process was outlined in two parts. Part 1 showed the
objectives and programme inputs and Part 2 the outputs, products and deliverables at
national, regional and district levels with a list of specific performance indicators for each
year of the programme.
[The World Bank mission of December 2001 appreciated the delivery-focussed approach
proposed by the consultants to institutional reform and restructuring.]
Within the development process is included an Environmental Management Plan. During
the initiation phase of the project the intention is to 'establish processes to incorporate
suitable social and environmental management practices in road projects'. Within the
programmes inputs (as shown on chart 1 is included establishing within the leading road
agencies the operating procedures for the reform and change of:
Social and Environmental management participatory arrangements.
Furthermore the programme intends to introduce the concept of Cooperative partnerships
with Knowledge Based Industries and NGO's for enhancing or supplying the road based
sciences for, amongst others:
Environmental management.
R -!-  t>1\X4  o



The Natural Environment
All the works connected with the science of road maintenance are, by definition, only
applying works or actions to existing features of the road or highway, as it exists. There
will be no work outside the Right of Way and no resettlement of displaced or moved
persons because of the acquisition of dwellings land or enterprises. Neither should there
be loss of means of employment by removal of sites of livelihood.
Initial surveys undertaken on the first 800 kms of national network have in fact revealed
the extent to which the proposed maintenance interventions wili contribute most
proactively to improving the natural environment as it presently exists.
The surveys have revealed:
- 'Highway drainage channels being directly used, in a targeted and purposeful manner.
as waste disposal sites.
-  Highway drainage channels picking up waste products indirectly by interconnection
to supplementary drainage systems from adjoining lands and properties outside the
ROW.
-  Highway structures being used as latrines and ablution areas in sites directly either
side of urban environments, and as such posing serious health risks.
- Right of Way areas being used as communal rubbish sites for old worn out or broken
industrial machinery, vehicles, and household appliances.
-  In one designated National Park Area, a completely uncontrolled waste disposal
activity that is so large as to possibly be an institutionalised dumping ground for
official or semi official waste collection services.
-  On one site where the highway drainage is directly linked, via a local watercourse to
the sea, the highway drainage is conveying large amounts of non biodegradable waste
products directly onto a beach where the tide either collects it and deposits it
elsewhere along the coast, or pushes it further up the beach depending on the state of
the tides.
The Consultants Programme Proposals
* The Consultants are already measuring and recording the length of ditches that
are environmentally polluted. Whilst each site concerned will go into a special list
for special treatments within the EMP, we are actually measuring the length of
ditch and outfall within the ROW that is adversely affected.
* This is because we can see that the scale of the problem is significant and through
our contract procedures special Conditions of Contract will have to apply for the
cleaning and disposal of materials of these sections and in some cases for the
protection of the contractors workforce.
* A set of special licences will have to be obtainedfor the disposal of the collected
materials, Viz. (i) A Landowners Agreement (ii) An Environmental Agencies
Authorisation on all sites intended to be used as tipping sites by the Routine
Maintenance Contractor, before The Project Manager (as designated in the
contract) will approve the site proposed
2



* The Consultants will take professional advice from industrial chemists and
toxology experts where any especially toxic waste is discovered.
1     The Human Environment - Road Construction and
Maintenance Industry
(a)   RoacF Workers
The existing road lengthsman system, (a local man working along the road adjacent to his
home or village and with hand tools cleaning road side channels) in the places where it is
evidenced on the main arterial routes that earry both the fastest moving traffic and
heaviest and largest commercial vehicles - is a seriously dangerous occupation, and in
today's road transport environment an inappropriate form of routine maintenance of such
heavily trafficked roads.
The Consultants Programme Proposals
* The first official proposal that will be forwarded to the GOA is that on all roads
having a certain traffic count, when taken over a 12 hour period, no person will
work alone or without the requisite set ofprotective signs cones and barriers and
reflective clothing, regardless whether he is a public sector worker or a
Contractors staff
*  We understand that this will automatically require the redeployment of existing
GRD labour either to the side roads, or to be re-designated as a Local
Community Contractor in line with the Consultants proposed system as outlined
in Annexure 6 of the Inception Report.
*  THERE IS NO INTENTION TO M4KE ANY OF THE EXISTING 1300 GRD
WORKFORCE REDUNDANT through the introduction of the Maintenance by
Contract project. Within the LCC development programme the intention is to
convert them to private sector enterprises over a period of 4 or 5 years where
natural wastage does not reduce their numbers.
* For ALL the first time Routine Maintenance Contracts it is intended to provide -
within the provisions of the contract -for a standard set of warning signs and
barriers for securing a safe working site in the carriageway (to a standard design
commensurate to the class and design speed of the road}.
* This initial set of signs and a set of reflective clothing for a set number of workers
will be paidfor by the Client and become the property of the contractor at the end
of the contract.
* He will be responsible for replacing any signs that are lost or broken during the
tenure of his contract and will not receive payments for works where the correct
signing and protection of workers is not undertaken.
3



Note
As the intention is to provide a system of maintenance by contract for routine
maintenance on the complete national network, it is felt that by this approach the
travelling public throughout the country would be aware that a very proactive Road
Safety Campaign is being undertaken by the road agency responsible for
maintenance works as they would see standard warning signs and precautions
wherever they travel.
(b)   Contractors Labour and Workers
In the instances recorded by the Consultant of contractors working on the road, whilst the
labour was protected by the positions or size of the plant that they were working with or
adjacent to, the level of forrnalised protective measures (coning off work areas, advance
warning signs, protective and bright reflective barriers and clothing) are generally not in
evidence. There is clearly a serious lack of safety advice and/or compliance enforcement
by the responsible agencies, which includes the road agencies.
The Consultants Programme Proposals
For all the Periodic Maintenance contracts the contractors will provide the standard set
of signs [as outlined as part of the consultants training programme for safe working
practices] at his own expense. He also will be obliged to supply the requisite set of
protective clothingfor his operatives at all times and the measurement andpayment of
his works will only take place upon a certification that safe working practices were in
place.
The Periodic Maintenance contractor will have a special Health and Safety at Work
procedure and this will include:
* Installations and measures usedfor environmental protection (water soil air)
during the performance of works
* Proposals regarding the filtration of burnt gases [Asphalt plants mainly] The safe
storage of materials to protect the environment
* The method of cleaning vehicles when they are leaving the site. The water source
and quantity to be used
* The method of collection and disposal of the used waters and any liquid and solid
wastes including wastes from works camps and maintenance yards.
The Human Environment - Traffic Safety Measures
The level of road accidents and incidents in Albania is disproportionately high when
compared to the level of vehicle ownership.
What the road maintenance intervention surveys have revealed is however, how the lack
of preventative and safety conscious maintenance interventions is contributing either
directly or indirectly to the very bad road safety environment. The surveys have recorded:
4



Cambers of road on bends that have become misshapen and negative by the effects of
heavy vehicles and the progression of the situation are clearly over a long period and
remained un-addressed by the agency responsible for maintenance. Untreated or worse
still (because an opportunity has been missed) rough or misshapen pothole and patching
repairs that are the worst scenario on bends where tyre traction and adhesion is critical
and a rough surface breaks that fragile bond, resulting in skidding and loss of control.
A total disregard for any form of repair to damaged or removed bridge and culvert
parapets which are intended to protect the unwary driver from straying in the dark over
the edge intowhatever void is being bridged or drained.
A complete lack of hazard warning boards, bollards, or any form of physical barrier on
sites that clearly have experienced vehicles going over embankments through hedges and
running into walls and roadside banks.
The Consultants Programme Proposal
*  The Consultant intends undertaking a Safety Audit on all Periodic Maintenance
contracted lengths to identify all those items and elements of the roads physical
environment that could be considered are contributing to unsafe conditions for
the travelling public and where, by the intervention of a small amount of work,
these conditions could be rectified or at least mitigated these conditions.
*  To carry out this exercise a Road Safety Expert will be brought to Albania under
the Terms and Conditions of the consultancy contract and utilising man month
provisions from elsewhere within the contract.
*  Safety mitigation items will be included in Periodic Maintenance contracts
wherever possible and where they are requiring specialised measures special
Road Safety contracts will be preparedfor issuance by the GRD.
* For the larger contractors the Consultants are proposing that the contractor
nominates one of his staff as the person responsible for Health and Safety at work
sites. This person will have to attend [failure to have a trained person within the
consultants organisation will result in non activation or acceptance of Work
Schedules or contractors programme] a 'Health and Safety at Work' course to be
given as part of the Technical Assistance programme funded by the World Bank.
3     The Human Environment - Local Participation in
Road Sector Management
The local Regional Road Administration representing the GRD does not have any formal
or proscribed public participatory arrangements. They deal with complaints as and when
they occur, and as and when they have resources.
They are very much guided in almost all their decision making processes by political
considerations and pressures and this clearly does not address the social consequences of
areas of poverty, where road links are vital for development and poverty alleviation. It is
5



acknowledged, and was brought out forcibly to the consultants in one regional meeting,
that any investment policy (using World Bank funding) should be tailored by local
political considerations and "on those roads used by the important people of the area".
[The gentleman making that statement left the meeting immediately when told there
would be a participatory exercise that would gauge and consider all opinions on road
sector improvements of care, protection, and betterment.]
The Consultants Programme Proposals
The pilot contracts for the district road networks will be undertaken on roads that have
been chosen after a consultative exercise with different levels of local administrations
and representative bodies.
* The Consultant has already entered info dialogue with the National Association of
Communes and the local consultant Sociologist has outlined how consultative
frameworks will be best undertaken from experience within Albania in both the road
and other sectors.
* The main proposal, and one that has many 'Value Added' qualities, is to limit the
choice of district roads considered as candidates at any one time, in each years
programmes to roads that are directly linked to a national road that is to be
contractedfor periodic interventions andfunded by the World Bank.
* When the pilot length on the national network has been decided upon the first set of
participatory meetings will involve:
> The Chairman of Commune
> The Chairman of the Commune Council
> The Secretary of the Commune Council
> The Kryetar for each commune along the roads in question.
* It is anticipated by the consultants based upon the first field surveys, having four or
five roads within a County or Prefecture as pilot works within the World Bank
programme within each annual programme. There are twelve Prefectures.
* The first tier meetings will narrow down the choice to the top six or seven local road
links to be consideredfor the candidate list.
* The second round of meetings will be at Prefecture level, where the participation of
government representative can take place to make the final choice offour orfivefrom
the candidate list.
The Consultant is confident, after cross sector discussions and an initial impression of
local needs from the field surveys so far undertaken, that this two-tier process willfirstly
address local grass roots opinion and involvement, but at the same time not exclude a
6



certain amount of bureaucratic decision-making and involvement with thefinal choice
when the list is narrowed down.
Government must be seen to be assisting with local development initiatives in the form
that we are proposing.
NOTE
The process of choosing the contracted road works within the World Bank financed
programme; tontracts that promote local employment opportunities and local
development initiatives - will be greatly influenced by the measured different poverty
levels within the 36 districts ofAlbania. The process of determining the parameters for
making these choices and designing the local participatoryframeworkforpublic
discussion has already been initiated by the local consultants based upon this overlying
factor.
4     Environmental and Social Commitments at Local Level
The Consultants Programme Proposals
Local Contributions to the Programme
During internal project management discussions and canvassing different agencies and
representatives it was considered that the local people who would directly benefit by the
improvement of their local district road should make a monetary contribution as a means
of enhancing and encouraging stakeholder ownership.
The Road Maintenance Specialists felt that this contribution should be in the form of
Agreements and Commitments to maintain the road after completion rather than a
Capital outlay.
The consultant is going to design therefore a Contribution Agreementfor local
communities and communes who are located on district roads that are brought into the
repair programme.
This will involve a Commitment to undertake the upkeep, and most importantly, the
cleanliness of road side ditches and drainage structures within and immediately adjacent
to the communes and built up areas.
This should helpl address the distressing (and depressing) situation that has been
notedfrom the surveys so far in the first half of the country.
7



