Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23818-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.5 MILLION
(US$17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
June 5, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region






ALBANIA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation anrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    16
5. Environmental                                                                    18
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    22
2. Critical risks                                                                    22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    24
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           24
2. Other                                                                             24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  35
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           62
Annex 11: Road Sector - Current Situation                                               64
Annex 12: Policy Framework for Safeguard Compliance for Minor Adverse Impacts           70
Annex 13: Road Safety Component Detailed Description                                    73
Annex 14: Description of the method of measuremnent of the Key Performance Indicators   82
Annex 15: National and Rural Road Staff Reorientation Programme                         87
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31359 and IBRD No. 31862



ALBANIA
Road Maintenance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSE
Date: June 5, 2002                                 Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Country Director: Christiaan Poortrnan             Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: P066260                                Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
1 Loan      [Xp Credit     1 Grant       1 Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 17.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50% on undisbursed credit balances  Service charge: 0.75%
beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
s    el_                    a        _         _        _         _        _ Jg          ie
BORROWER                                                        3.85            0.00          3.85
IDA                                                             2.87           14.13         17.00
Total:                                                          6.72           14.13         20.85
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATION
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication
Address: Rruga Abdi Toptani, Nr. 5, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Cabinet of the Minister
Tel: +355 (4) 233503           Fax: +355 (4) 232389            Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Local Government and Decentralisation
Address: "Skenderbej" Square, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Cabinet of the Minister
Tel: +355 (4) 233545           Fax: +355 (4) 233544            Email:
General Roads Directorate (GRD)
Address: Rruga Sami Frasheri Nr 33, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: IDA financed Roads PIU Director
Tel: +355 (4) 259 897/98           Fax: +355 (4) 259 897           Email: A.Ceco@Hotmail.com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual      2.00 I     4.00       6.00       3.00 1     2.00
Cumulative     2.00       6.00      12.00      15.00      17.00
Project Implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
cPAD FO,Wd n



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to reduce transport costs on priority sections of the main road
network, reduce accident rates, and provide better accessibility to rural areas and essential social services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome Indicators
1. Percent of population in the pilot areas with improved access to essential social services.
2. Traffic surveys demonstrate the achievement of expected reductions in travel time on priority road
sections.
3. National accident records indicate significant reductions in traffic fatality rates.
Output Indicators
1. Compliance with agreed road standards and approved designs in segments designated for maintenance,
with significant reductions in road roughness.
2. Improved efficiency of the management and maintenance of the national and rural road network by (i)
restructuring the national road administration (General Roads Directorate - GRD), (ii) introducing a
pavemnent management system, and (iii) strengthening the rural and municipal road administration unit
(Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization - MLGD).
3. Designated 'black spot' areas improved in compliance with agreed designs.
4. Improved road safety by (i) developing the institutional capacity in the Ministry of Transport and
Telecommunication - MOTT/GRD and MLGD to identify hazardous locations and to design and
implement physical measures to reduce road accidents at these locations and (ii) providing technical
assistance and equipment to improve cooperation between agencies and the Directorate for Road Safety
(DRS).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-109      Date of latest CAS discussion: July 30, 1998
Albania's last full CAS (IDA/R98-109) was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on July 30,
1998. The 1998 CAS has, as one of its three strategic priorities, the promotion of sustainable private
sector growth, including the improvement of infrastructure with an emphasis on private sector
participation. A CAS Progress Report (IDA/R2000-20) was discussed by the Board of Executive
Directors on March 21, 2000. The CAS Progress Report focuses on the same strategic priorities as the
1998 CAS, but places increased emphasis on poverty reduction. A Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy (GPRS) was prepared by the Albanian government. Both the GPRS and a new CAS based on this
strategy will be presented to the Board in June 2002. Both the GPRS and the new CAS emphasize that
infrastructure bottlenecks continue to deter economic growth and poverty alleviation by lowering the
marginal productivity of private capital and limiting access by the poor to market opportunities. The road
network is an essential element of the infrastructure necessary for growth and for attracting productive
investmnents, which in tum are the basis for job creation needed to make sustained poverty reduction a
reality. Roads are a major safety hazard in Albania, a country with one of the worst traffic safety records
in the world. The proposed investments will help establish a sustainable mechanism to support a national
-2 -



Road Safety Program leading to improved safety conditions on the national and rural road networks and on
streets in urban areas. The objectives of this project are, therefore, consistent with both the CAS and the
GPRS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Transpoit demand has changed radically since 1991 due to structural changes in the economy: The road
fleet has grown from almost zero to 185,161 vehicles in 2000, the number of flights at Rinas Airport
continues to grow rapidly, and traffic at Durres Port has more than doubled since 1995. On the other hand,
both rail freight and passenger traffic have fallen to about 10% of their pre-1991 peak. Albania has
responded to the change in transport demand by investing in transport and privatizing a number of
transport operations. Road investments, mostly donor financed, initially concentrated on the main
East-West (TEN Corridor 8) and North-South corridor north of Durres, and most sections are now either
complete or under construction or preparation. These investments were complemented by donor financed
projects directed at rehabilitating other sections of the primary and secondary road networks, or community
based improvements in the tertiary road network. Road maintenance was not emphasized initially because
pre-1991 roads were not designed for heavy traffic and had to be rehabilitated before they could be
efficiently maintained. Significant investments were also undertaken at the ports of Durres and Vlora, and
at Rinas Airport. Limited investments were made in Albanian Railways. While the condition of transport
infrastructure has improved as a result of these efforts, much remains to be done. For example, only 10%
of the national road network is presently in good condition, with only an additional 22% in fair condition.
The Government presently spends about 2% of GDP on transport (11.7 billion Leks in 2000). The Bank
assisted the Government in preparing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 2000, and as
part of that exercise recommended that the Government increase its level of transport expenditure to about
3% of GDP, in part to continue catching up with this road rehabilitation backlog.
The Government has also established a number of market-based policies since 1991 with the objective of
increasing transport efficiency and coming into harmony with European Union (EU) regulations. Albania
has adopted a satisfactory Road Act and has increased its road maintenance budget in stages. All road
works (excluding routine maintenance) are carried out by contractors selected on a competitive basis.
Inter-city road transport is fully deregulated and the Government has initiated road vehicle registration and
inspection systems. The Government is currently updating the 1988 Railway Law to make it more
consistent with the EU regulations. The new law is expected to be passed by the end of 2002.  The
Albanian Railways, responsible for the 440 km long railway network, has been transformed into a joint
stock company (JSC). The only railway international connection, with Montenegro, has been recently
reestablished from the border up to Bajza (reconstruction of the missing link, between Bajza and Shkoder,
is expected to be completed by late 2002). A potential international connection with Macedonia would
require the construction of 67.6 km of new lines at high cost (2.6 kan in Albania and 65 km in Macedonia).
An independent Port Authority has been established at Durres, a Seaport Law is under preparation, and
port operations are being progressively transferred to the private sector. The Government has also created
independent JSCs to manage Rinas Airport and operate the air traffic control system, and subscribes to
most international air traffic conventions.
The Government's transport policy has evolved iteratively with support from the donor community.
Government/donor coordination meetings for the transport sector are held about once each year. The
Government's transport policy, as summarized in the MTEF, is satisfactory. The main policy directions
for the road sector are:
The North-South and East-West road corridors should be completed;
- 3 -



- Road maintenance should be given priority;
-  The road maintenance budget should be increased from US$7.6 to US$10 million per annum;
- Road vehicle inspection centers should be rehabilitated, a vehicle registration information system
introduced, and driver education further improved; and
- The Inter-ministerial Road Safety Council should be strengthened.
The Govemment gives increased prominence to road maintenance because recently rehabilitated roads need
to be maintained with modem methods, a nascent contracting industry has developed to do the work, and
road organizations have matured to the stage where they can make the transition from force account to
contract maintenance. The Govemment's road maintenance strategy is elaborated in a letter sent to the
Bank at the time the Emergency Road Repair Project was approved (Cr. 33030, December 7, 1999, Annex
8). The Govemrnment declared that: (i) national roads (3,221 km, essentially the primary road network)
would be the responsibility of GRD while rural roads (about 11,800 km of secondary and tertiary roads,
including 4,220 km transferred from GRD in 1996, plus 1,000 km of urban streets) would be under the
responsibility of the Commune Councils or Municipalities reporting to MLGD; (ii) new rural road
organizations would be established; (iii) all routine and periodic maintenance would be carried out by
contract in the future; (iv) maintenance management personnel would be trained and salaries set to compete
with the private sector; and (iv) private contractors would be trained. This strategy was confinmed at
negotiations and provides the framework for the project.
Under the project the condition of the national and rural road networks would be improved by (i) carrying
out periodic and routine works by contract under the project, as discussed below, and (ii) assuring an
adequate budget for future road maintenance. The National Roads are financed via the state budget and
foreign loans. The Regional Road Directorates (RRD) prepare requests for annual budgets that are
collected and vetted by GRD. GRD, through MOTT, then submits a combined road budget to the
Parliament for approval. After approval of the Government budget, the Ministry of Finance sends funds to
GRD and directly to most RRDs. Rural Roads are financed through the state budget and local budgets in
some cases supplemented by foreign funding. Only limited central government resources are being made
available for rural roads at present (Annex 11). Urban roads and streets are financed by the Commune
Councils and the Municipalities through the state budget. Besides funding from the national budget the
GRD has funding from foreign loans and aids. The country's present tax structure is generally in alignment
with EU requirements, but still needs some adjustments (see Country Report Albania-Road Transport
Charges, NEI Transport for PHARE, 1999). Overall tax collection for general government revenue needs
to be greatly improved and a mechanism established that assures adequate funding for the road authorities
to maintain the desired performance of the public network. At this stage the Government is not pursuing the
establishment of a Road Fund for Albania and the Bank concurs with this approach. In order to improve
road maintenance funding: (i) the Government confirmed its intention at negotiations to increase by 5% per
year its maintenance budget; and (ii) the project includes technical assistance to help design an improved
road user charges system.
Road management and maintenance practices would be improved by (i) contracting out routine and
periodic maintenance using modem techniques on a demonstration basis and (ii) preparing to reorganize the
RRDs and RuRDs, respectively under the responsibility of GRD and MLGD, to carry out maintenance by
contract rather than by force account. GRD has successfully reduced its staff from 5,405 in 1995 to about
1,500 in 2002 without social disruption. This was achieved by separating about 1,900 persons and by
transferring about 2,000 persons to RuRDs under the responsibility of MLGD in 1996. The staff
reductions were successful in part because the domestic contracting industry was developing at the same
time that GRD was reducing its staff. However, the RRDs are still significantly overstaffed. There were
no private civil works contractors in Albania in 1991. Now there are more than 50, several of which are
-4-



qualified for pavement works. These contractors developed their skills and expanded their business under
prior donor and IDA-financed projects. The project includes technical assistance and training to help with
the transition to contract maintenance, and to assess its impact.
The development of the local road construction and consulting industries would be helped with contracts
financed under the project, the reorganization of RRDs/RuRDs and substitution of contract maintenance
for force account works discussed above, improvements in the system of road maintenance finance, and
training in modern business and maintenance practices.
Traffic safety is a significant social, economic and public health issue in Albania. The annual fatality rate,
based on official statistics which are probably understated, has been slowly decreasing over the past six
years as drivers gain experience, roads are improved, old vehicles are replaced, and the traffic safety
campaign begins to take effect Nonetheless the fatality rate in 2000 was the highest in central/eastern
Europe and about ten times the average rate in the EU (Annex 11).
The Government has recognized the serious road safety situation and has taken steps to introduce a new
Road Code (based on the Italian Code) and supporting Regulation for its implementation. In addition,
Ministerial support has been given for the establishment of a high-level National Road Safety Council
(NRSC) to give leadership to the Road Safety Program developed under the IDA National Roads Project.
The NRSC was established through Order No. 13, Council of Ministers, Republic of Albania, of January
15, 2002. Coordination of the Program will be the responsibility of the Directorate for Road Safety (DRS)
within MOTT, that also acts as NRSC Secretariat. Within the traffic police, a specialist police accident
unit is to be established to strengthen the development of the traffic accident database. The national
insurance company, INSIG, is supporting government initiatives in road safety, has provided financial
support to the Municipality of Tirana (for new traffic signal equipment), and has an agreement to assist the
traffic police (with equipment to improve law enforcement activities). The Ministry of Health has
identified traffic accidents as one of the top three major causes of death in Albania, while injury victims of
traffic accidents are significant users of hospital emergency services. The traffic police perceive that the
main causes of accidents include poor road condition, lack of safety features (e.g., signs, pavement
marking, operating traffic signals), high speed, and high alcohol levels of drivers. The police have no
appropriate accident reporting and analysis system, and no speed radar or alcohol-testing equipment at this
time. The project includes 'accident black spot' improvements, equipment for the traffic police, and
technical assistance and training to further improve road safety.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The principal issue to be addressed is the need to make the Government administrative structure responsible
for road maintenance and safety more effective. Some institutional strengthening for the road sector has
been carried out under previous IDA projects, including the use of contracting for major works. However,
the basic structure at both the national and rural levels is still woefully inadequate, and the level of
available local financing is not sufficient to meet even the minimal needs of the local roads subsector.
Technical assistance in this project will be used to establish the level of road funding required and
recommend the Road User Charges approach needed to begin to meet these requirements.
Strategic choices have already been made regarding the use of contracting for routine as well as periodic
maintenance, although decisions will have to be made regarding the timing and method to move from the
remaining force account operations to contract operations. Currently what little periodic maintenance there
is, is contracted out, while all routine maintenance is done by force account. Also the division of
responsibilities between MOTT and MLGD, and the appropriate structure for the planning and contracting
- 5 -



authorities, needs to be fin-ther improved. Some background work has been done in this area and is included
in a report prepared by a Swiss consultant (Iteco). The Govemment's recently adopted policy regarding
decentralization will no doubt affect the outcome of the final structure. Lastly, ways of providing for an
adequate level of road user charges (and how these charges should be collected) will be established during
project implementation.
The recent opening of several new donor-funded highways has enabled drivers to attain excessively high
speeds that have resulted in a number of serious crashes. Lack of adequate safety provisions (e.g. traffic
signs, road markings, pedestrian facilities) on the roads was a contributing factor to the accidents. The
police lack the necessary equipment to effectively enforce speed limits (i.e. radar) and to be able to check
for drunk-driving activity. Both GRD and MLGD lack the expertise to systematically identify accident
black spots and to conduct traffic safety audits as an integral part of the roads planning, design, and
construction process. All government transport agencies (including the traffic police) would benefit from
support in implementing the new Road Code and its associated regulations.
Improving road safety is urgently needed and the project will seek to reduce accurately reported traffic
fatality rates (fatalities/10,000 vehicles) by 10% or more. Continuing work begun under previous
operations, road safety will be addressed in the project by:
*   creating greater awareness of road safety issues at all levels, starting with a high level seminar in which
the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) and the Directorate of Road Safety (DRS) in MOTT should
play a major role and assert their mandates;
*   providing technical assistance, training and equipment to the DRS to enable this new unit to function as
the NRSC secretariat and the coordinator of road safety activities in Albania;
*   developing the institutional capacity within GRD and MLGD to conduct road safety audits during
planning, engineering, and construction of roads, to identify hazardous locations (accident black spots)
in their road networks, and via pilot projects to implement appropriate remedial measures to reduce
traffic accidents at selected priority locations;
* providing technical assistance, training and equipment to the traffic police to improve traffic accident
data collection, recording, storing and analysis, and to introduce effective traffic law enforcement in
accordance with the new Road Code; and
*   providing technical assistance and advisory services to the traffic police with respect to traffic law
enforcement and publicity campaigns in Tirana and to support the introduction of new regulations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of two components: (i) Maintenance of National and Rural Roads; and (ii) Traffic
Safety, each comprising works, goods, and technical assistance sub-components. The proposed project
seeks to improve the overall maintenance of Albania's road network, including both the national and rural
roads, both in the near term and on a continuing basis. Measures to increase general road safety awareness
and strengthen coordination of road safety programming would support the establishment of an appropriate
envirownent for a multidimensional, sustainable Road Safety Program. The introduction of targeted
enforcement strategies, combined with integrated road safety campaigns and remedial measures at accident
black spots, would aim to reduce the number of traffic accidents and minimize the offsetting effects of
improved road conditions and expected higher traffic speeds.
- 6 -



The priority road sections for maintenance will include access to at least one of the regional hospitals
recently upgraded under the IDA-financed Health Services Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. AL 26590).
This will provide an opportunity to compare accessibility to the hospital before and after maintenance of
the access roads. Technical assistance will fund an assessment of project impact on rural and health
facility accessibility. In addition, traffic counts and surveys for this purpose will be included in the
project's overall program of counts and surveys.
Contracting out of routine maintenance will be introduced through the project. GRD will begin letting
private routine maintenance contracts for a portion of the overall network in various locations to test and
demonstrate the feasibility of this procedure. Nevertheless the total amount of contracting out will not,
during this project, be so large as to cause reductions in GRD employment beyond normal attrition (a
common standard for attrition is usually 2-3% per year so here in five years 10% can reasonably be
expected). However, the project will include an assessment of the organizational, social and financial
impacts of a generalization of the proposed approach to the whole network, as it is expected that this
project will set up a counter-example of quality maintenance being performed under contract and that will
lead to further expansion of contracting out in the future.
The project will include the following components:
1. Maintenance of                Highways              18.65      89.4     15.11      88.9
National and Rural Roads
WORKS: About 500 km of roads and
bridges of the national road network
and about 500 km of roads and bridges
of the rural road network.
GOODS: Equipment for road surveys;
office equipment, vehicles and supplies
for effective project implementation;
equipment for road database
development and implementation.
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE: restructuring of the
national and rural road management;
assessing impact on rural and health
facility accessibility; recommending
appropriate road user charges based on
funding needs; services to prepare the
engineering design and carry out
supervision of road works; training for
the private road construction industry;
consultant services for PIU operation;
consultant services for environmental
management, training and public
infonnation campaigns; project audits.
-7-



2. Traffic Safety                 Highways               2.20      10.6       1.89      11.1
WORKS: physical measures to
improve safety selected priority areas
and accident black spot locations.
GOODS: traffic control devices;
data storage/retrieval and analysis
system for Traffic Police accident unit
and for the MOTT General Directorate
of Road Safety; safety enforcement
equipment.
TRAlNING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE: road safety awareness
seminar for senior GOA and other
officials; consultant services and
training for MOTT to support
implementation of the DRS and its
working procedures; consultant
services and training for GRD;
consultant services and training for
MLGD; consultant services and
training for the Traffic Police.
Total Project Costs                   20.85      100.0     17.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     20.85     100.0      17.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*   Restructuring the road authorities responsible for the main and rural road networks and establishment
of effective operational procedures for the restructured organizations. This will involve reflecting the
Government's policy of decentralization, while recognizing the lack of effective institutions at the local
level for planning and executing road maintenance operations and will include the introduction of a
Pavement Management System (PMS) and tools for economic evaluation of projects.
*   Gradual replacement of the remaining road construction and maintenance units with contract
operations, including routine and winter maintenance.
*   Creation of appropriate capacity in the agencies responsible for road maintenance to prepare
multi-annual maintenance and rehabilitation programs, including financing needs..
*   Support for the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) and its Secretariat, the Directorate of Road
Safety (DRS), in MOTT. Confirmation of an approved multi-dimensional Road Safety Program for
Albania and the financial means to make it sustainable.
*   Support the phase-out of leaded gasoline by revising the tax structure so that unleaded gasoline is 5%
cheaper than leaded gasoline.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project include an improved road network in the short tern, resulting from the civil
works carried out under the project, and consequently reduced transport costs. Of more importance will be
the creation of institutions capable of carrying out effective road maintenance operations over the longer
run and a means of financing for these operations. If successful, the project would lead to improved road
transport, with lower vehicle operating costs, that would make Albanian production of agricultural and
industrial goods more competitive. Deaths in road accidents and the losses because of injuries and property
damages are estimated to be in the order of 2-3% of GDP, not including the very high social and
humanitarian costs. Improvements in traffic safety represent a significant economic saving and social
benefit for Albania. As the unleaded gasoline prices become competitive, vehicular lead emissions, which
generally contribute as much as 90% of all lead emissions into the atmosphere, will be reduced resulting in
reduced health impacts from exposure to lead.
The target population would include all road users, including transport operators, agricultural and
industrial producers, and the general population using the road network. The rural road component would
particularly benefit the rural and farm population, including a large percentage of low income persons. The
project would also provide jobs in the short run through the employment opportunities created by the civil
works components, and in the long run to the extent that the project assists the country in attracting
productive investment and in expanding economic activity.
Although the project is not specifically targeted to alleviate poverty, the poor will benefit from this project,
especially the rural poor (almost 90 percent of Albania's poor are rural). The project will:
*   Improve access to job opportunities for the poor;
*   Improve access to social amenities such as the regional hospitals recently upgraded under the
IDA-financed Health Services Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. AL 26590);
*   Improve the opportunity for trade and movement of people by lowering transport costs and creating
jobs in transport construction and service delivery. This will improve access to local markets for
agricultural products, as well as better access to health and education;
*   Improve system-wide transport efficiency thus increasing potential for economic growth by enhancing
competitiveness and export base of Albania, resulting in overall increase in labor demand and income;
and
*   Reduce accident rates, many of which involve pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles that traditionally
constitute a high percentage of the poor.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The cooperating agencies would include the GRD under MOTT, MLGD, and the Traffic Police under
Ministry of Public Order (MPO). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) already established for ongoing
road projects in GRD would be responsible for project management, including procurement, for all
components of the project. MLGD would be represented in all matters concerning the rural road network.
For the implementation of the rural road works, the PIU will keep a high level of involvement of the
regional and municipal governments, including asling them to appoint the members of the Bid Evaluation
Committee for works carried out in areas under their jurisdiction. All legal issues and the actions of the two
Ministries (MOTT and MLGD) will be coordinated through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
The road safety component, excluding civil works, would be the responsibility of the DRS under the
guidance of the NRSC, with support from MOTT, GRD, MLGD and the Traffic Police.
The project would have one Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under GRD and would include at least one
-9-



staff from the MLGD. The PIU would consist of about six persons with skills in general management,
procurement, highway engineering, enviromnent, and accounting. The IDA financed Roads PIU within
GRD, currently implementing the Emergency Road Repair and the National Roads Projects will implement
the proposed project. This avoids creating a new PIU. Moreover, the PIU capacity will not be overstressed
because the National Roads Credit will be closed on June 30, 2002, i.e. before the RMP implementation
starts up. It is also expected that GRD will collaborate with MLGD to gradually establish project
implementation capacity on all aspects of rural and municipal roads within MLGD, as GRD already has
experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. The road safety component, excluding civil works,
would be the responsibility of the DRS but all procurement would be carried out by the IDA financed
Roads PIU within GRD. The PIU will contact directly each entity for matters relating to that entity in
order to ensure an efficient implementation of the project.
During project preparation, an assessment of the GRD's capacity to conduct procurement was carried out.
The PIU has a core of qualified staff with experience in Bank procurement. The agency has benefited from
years of assistance by intemational consultants in project monitoring, procurement, and supervision.
However, the experience so far with prior and post review of the PIJ's procurement activities has indicated
that the procurement procedures are not always transparent and that the PrU is subject sometimes to
outside pressures. Therefore, the agency is rated high risk. In order to address the deficiencies identified
during the capacity assessment, an action plan was prepared and agreed at negotiations (see Annex 6).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:-
As Albania is currently reviewing options for implementing its decentralization process a number of
alternatives are still under consideration regarding the responsibilities for rural road maintenance, including
the role of the Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization and its relationship to GRD as well as to
the District and Municipal governments. A likely outcome is that MLGD will have overall responsibility
for these roads, but will engage GRD to assist in carrying out the initial contracting and would rely on the
regional administrations to implement road works.
The possibility of retaining routine maintenance as a force account operation was considered. This
alternative was rejected on the ground that contracting is proving to be more efficient in many countries
around the world and it would be more difficult to establish an effective force account operation in Albania
than it would to establish an effective contracting operation. However, it is anticipated that there will be a
gradual transition from force account to contracting. This will contribute to the objective of avoiding
employment disruption and loss of earniings (see Annex 14).
Regarding financing, an alternative option would be establishing a Road Fund rather than paying for road
maintenance operations through the budget. This option has been rejected by the Government, who at this
stage is not pursuing the establishment of a Road Fund for Albania.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
__   _____     >    Bank4j     -   - oc&olsyti-
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
- 10 -



Bank-flnanced
Roads, ports, and railways       Transport Project (P008258)     S            S
Project cost: US$ 30.4 million
Completed 1999
Rural roads                      Rural Roads Project             S            S
(P008267)
750 km rehabilitated
Project cost: US$33.6 million
Completed 2000
National roads                   National Roads Project          S            S
(P036060)
33 km constructed
13 km rehabilitated
Project cost: US$ 66.0 million
Closing June 2002
Roads emergency                  Emergency Road Repair           S            S
Project (P068853)
221 km restored to serviceable
condition
Project cost: US$ 14.5 million
Closing: Dec. 2003
Other development agencies
EIB                              Quick Start
Italy                            Quick Start
EBRD                             Quick Start
EU (PHARE)                       Various + Quick Start
Kuwait Fund
IP/DO Ratngs: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatsfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The total foreign contnbution to the transport sector in Albania is estimated at Euro 500 million since the
beginning of the country's tansition to a market economy, including completed, ongoing, and proposed
projects. The main donors are (in million Euro): EU (160), IDA (115, including this proposed project), EEB
(105), Italy (46), Arab funds (31), Germany (24), Kuwait (15) and EBRD (10).
The EU Transport program from 1994 to 1999 was Euro 138 million (Euro 88 million already contracted,
Euro 45 million disbursed) and reached a cumulative amount of Euro 160 million with the 2000 allocation.
Among the sector studies, the EU intends to fund: (i) a Land Use policy study with emphasis on improving
urban planning along new bypasses, (ii) the establishment of road design and construction standards, and
(iii) a contribution to the road safety program. Specifically, the EU currently has an unused allocation for
MOTT of Euro 0.65 million that is available for road safety activities, that may be used to address safety
issues on EU-funded new highways. Map IBRD 31359 (attached) illustrates the contribution of all donors
to the improvement of the national roads network.



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The World Bank has had extensive experience in road maintenance in many places around the world, and in
many of the Eastern European countries as well. One important lesson leamed many years ago is the
importance of giving priority to maintenance over new construction when financing is constrained, based on
the superior rates of return that almost invariably are achieved by the maintenance operations. As a
number of the Eastern European country operations are now at or near completion, there are a number of
other important lessons that emerge.
First among these is that contracting is more efficient than force account operations. Virtually all
Bank/IDA operations now provide for periodic maintenance to be carried out on a contract basis. Routine
maintenance is more problematic since the tasks are more difficult to define precisely. Nevertheless, there
is growing experience in European countries such as Finland and Sweden where routine maintenance is
being carried out on a contract basis, frequently with significant savings compared to the force account
operations that preceded the change. It is now timely to consider contracting for routine maintenance more
widely. Furthermore, the successful use of performance-based specifications in several countries have
indicated that this approach may be preferable under certain circumstances, to the traditional "bill of
quantities" approach to contract out routine maintenance. While contracting out routine maintenance will
be introduced under the proposed project, adoption of performance-based specifications is reserved for
future operations when the local contracting industry has acquired more sophisticated knowledge of
contractual procedures.
The Bank's experience with the provision of financing for road maintenance is more mixed, but several
lessons are clear. First, it is important that road users be assessed for the cost of maintaining the roads,
just as other basic infrastructure charges for its services (as in the case of electric power or telephone
service). The most appropriate charges are those most directly related to the use of the roads, with fuel
taxes as the largest contributor in most cases. Second, while there are frequently conceptual objections
from the IMF to the establishment of a Road Fund, with specific road user charges dedicated to placement
in the Fund for use only for roads, it is clear that this mechanism leads to a higher level and more
consistency in financing than if the funds are provided from the general budget. The agreement reached
between the World Bank and the IMF for conditions under which Road Funds could be considered
acceptable should be given attention when using this mechanism. While establishing a Road Fund is not a
required condition under the proposed project, it may be an option to be considered by the Government in
the future.
The volatility of the Albanian civil service (frequent changes in project officials, including PIU) affecting
the project day-to-day decision-making process hampered the implementation of previous projects. This
was improved by the establishment of an energetic and competent "independent" PIU during project
implementation. The selected PIU members were domestic consultants, paid in accordance with local
market rates, and acting with the delegation and autonomy defined in the appraisal and credit agreement
documents. This lesson has been applied to this project.
The World Bank has had extensive experience in traffic safety in many places around the world. Designing
and implementing a Road Safety Program is a difficult and long term process requiring strong political
support and commitment. From all the involved agencies as well as other government bodies, it requires:
(i) increasing awareness of traffic safety issues, (ii) good coordination, (iii) strong ownership, and (iv)
adequate funding. There is also an opportunity in Albania to develop community-based road safety
initiatives making use of cross-sector linkages via other ongoing IDA projects involved with education,
health, social services and community works.
- 12 -



From the perspective of safety, public road transport needs special attention. In 1993 a World Bank study
was launched to analyze the road safety situation in Central Europe and give recommendations how to stop
the negative trend. Hungary was among the countries covered by the study (the other countries were:
Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Slovakia). The study assessed the financing needs of road
safety in the six countries at US$ 414 million over three years. It recommended actions, as well as
investments in the areas of user behavior, road infrastructure and checks and vehicle safety inspection. The
assumption was that if all multi disciplinary measures are implemented, the deteriorating safety conditions
could be reversed and injuries reduced by 10-15%, fatalities by 15% in 3 years. If the implementation is
stringent this could even lead to a 25% improvement One country, Hungary has implemented the
recommended program and has even achieved better results.
Experience in implementing IDA and other donor-financed projects in Albania points to common issues as
summarized in the Report of Donor Coordinators' Meeting of February 16, 2001:
*   Feasibility and detailed engineering studies need to be completed to good standard before a project
begins;
* Current land use and/or transport/urban master plans (with utility locations) are required before
detailed designs can be prepared;
* Land expropriation arrangements need to be completed before civil works contracts start;
*   Where appropriate, a timely and firm comritment from the Government to reimburse VAT/customs
duties is required; and
* It is important for the Government to assure the continuity of key personnel in Ministries and transport
organizations.
All of these lessons have been taken into consideration in the design of this project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has given frequent expressions of its interest in improving its capacity for carrying out
road maintenance, including the letter from the Minister of Transport and Telecommunication and in its
support for the findings of the Swiss study mentioned above. Also, the Ministry of Local Government and
Decentralization confirmed its commitment to the project in a letter dated July 17, 2000.
The Government of Albania (GOA) recognizes that the road maintenance issue needs to be addressed as
soon as possible ("Road Maintenance Strategy" letter from Minister of Finance and Minister of Transport
to the President of the World Bank, dated November 1, 1999), and asked the Bank for assistance in
financing a Road Maintenance Project. This strategy and priority have been reiterated in a letter from
Minister of Transport and Telecommunication and Minister of Local Government and Decentralization to
the World Bank's Country Director for Albania, dated May 13, 2002.
The Govenmment's serious commitment to improve road maintenance in the country is also shown in the
2001-2003 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), published by the MOF in December 2000.
The MTEF includes a specific recornmendation to "increase recurrent budget allocations for road
maintenance (both national roads under Ministry of Transport and local roads under Ministry of Local
Government)". Accordingly, the resource ceilings for 2001-2003 include increasing the share of GDP
allocated for economic services (mainly transport) from 1.1% to 1.6% of GDP, with a priority of spending
on maintenance (see MTEF para 80 & 83).
- 13 -



The Government has also given a conmmitment to initiating a Road Safety Program (RSP); notably in
MOTT's 1998 correspondence with IDA about implementation of the approved RSP emanating from the
National Roads Project and, more recently, by their approval of a new Road Code and Regulation, and the
establishment of the NRSC and supporting Secretariat (DRS), through Order No. 13 of the Council of
Ministers, dated January 15, 2002. Key Govermnent agencies (i.e. MOTT, GRD, MLGD, MPO (Traffic
Police) and Ministry of Health) have expressed their strong support for improving road safety and to accept
IDA support to implement the RSP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Albania has received substantial amounts of financial support for road construction and rehabilitation from
the European community and from international and bilateral organizations. The Bank's broad experience
in assisting in institutional strengthening of road administrations to better manage and maintain national
and rural road networks, support and implementation of traffic safety policies, and its ability to coordinate
with a large number of co-financiers puts it in a unique position to fill this role. Also, its experience with
road financing arrangements and the execution of high level and influential road safety awareness seminars
will provide useful background for assisting the Government in these areas. Thus the Bank has a
comparative advantage in undertaking the project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$24.2 million; ERR = 75 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of investments on the national road network has been carried out using a cost -
benefit approach. The selection of national road segments was also based on a social assessment of the
national roads network undertaken at the same time as the initial national roads condition survey. The
selection of rural roads to be included in the project was carried out using an approach based on cost
effectiveness.
The economic analyses have been carried out on 969 km of national roads over a ten year analysis period.
The original selection of roads for purposes of the economic analysis was made on the basis of their current
condition in terms of road roughness and their suitability for periodic maintenance treatment. Out of a total
of 1,057 km of candidate roads, 88 kmn are in need of reconstruction and are not therefore suitable for
maintenance works. The economic analyses were carried out using the World Bank's HDM4 simulation
model. A set of 22 road sections made up the analysis. Within this set of 22 segments, eight constitute
'social access' roads, which were included on the grounds of providing essential access to relatively
deprived and dislocated communities, i.e. their economic justification is based on the additional production
(value added') which they are expected to unduce, which was not quantified.
The final selection of segments, to fit within the budget limit, comprises six segments of which two are
derived from the social access roads work.
All the six road sections outside Tirana lie above the 12 percent rate of return benchmark with EIRR values
ranging between 25.6 percent and 343.9 percent. The NPV:CC ratio ranges between 0.46 to 14.11.
Overall, the periodic and routine maintenance of national roads component of the project has an economic
IRR of 82 percent with an NPV of US$ 21.97 million at 12 percent rate of discount.
- 14 -



Road Section Name  Lengh     AD       (US$ million)  EIR        Ratio    Ranking
Vora - Fushe Kruja   12.0    4,722        7.67       343.9%     14.11       1
Cerrik - Elbasan     14.0   32,325        337        101.5%      4.80       2
Tirana - Elbasan    48.0     2,387        7.00        86.0%      3.22       3
Tepelene - Carshove  63.0     880         2.22        53.0%      1.84       4
Paper (N7) -         14.0    1,409        1.27        50.3%      1.54       5
Shtepaje           _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Kukes - Krume*      91.0      604         0.44       25.6%       0.46       6
Total               242.0      -         21.97        82%         -
* social access roads
# at 12 per cent rate of discount
Evaluation of the candidate national road sections within Tirana was carried out using a discounted cash
flow approach based on simulation estimates of current traffic on the links and assumed future traffic
growth rates. An analysis of network effects was not undertaken. Positive returns are recorded with NPV,
at 12 percent rate of discount, being US$ 2.25 million and EIRR 47.5 percent. Taken together, the national
roads and Tirana urban road sections give values of US$ 24.2 million for NPV and 75 percent for the
EIRR.
Two sensitivity analyses have been carried out. First, increasing costs by 20 percent and second, a fall in
base year traffic of 20 percent. For the national roads periodic and routine maintenance component, the
project shows a greater sensitivity to the rise in costs as opposed to the decline in traffic. In both instances
however, the project still shows a relatively high overall rate of return. For the Tirana urban road sections,
the analysis shows a marginally greater sensitivity to the change in traffic. The overall rate of return
remains very positive.
The rural road component of the project focuses on the provision of improved accessibility to and from
populated rural areas. Rural communities are scattered throughout the country, even in the mountainous
interior and eastern regions of the country. Out of a total rural roads network of about 4,000 kIn, about
1,700 km of candidate roads were compiled and, following consultations with MLGD staff at the regional
office level, a total 1,340 km of candidate roads were evaluated.
An estimate was made of the population that would be expected to realize direct benefits from the road
works envisaged and a construction cost for each link was estimated depending on length of section and
terrain. From this information a cost 'cost per capita' of reaching the population associated with that link
was derived. In addition to this quantitative cost effectiveness factor, priorities within each Prefecture and
District have been established on the basis of the following qualitative factors:
* Improved network continuity in terms of inter-regional accessibility;
* Improved conditions in corridors leading to known areas of extreme poverty;
* Improved conditions in corridors accessing areas of agricultural significance and/or tourism potential;
* Reduced travel times in corridors used for access to educational and health facilities.
Based on these factors project road links (totaling about 235 km) were selected for periodic maintenance
from the ranked set of candidate links until the budget allocation (US$ 4 million) was exhausted. Further
road sections of about 265 km will receive routine maintenance at a cost of US$ 0.96 million. The total
length of rural roads maintained under the project will be about 500 km.
- 15 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
As there are no revenue earning enterprises associated with this project, a financial analysis was not
undertaken.
Fiscal Impact:
The Govermment counterpart financing requirement, estimated at US$3.85 million equivalent, including
financing of 20 percent of the civil works component, will be spread over the five year life of the project
implementation period. An initial deposit of US$ 300,000 equivalent will be a condition for the
effectiveness of the Credit. The following table indicates the impact this counterpart funding will have on
the GRD's budget, taking into account only funds provided from within the country. If there is no increase
in road budget, at its peak year counterpart funding will require 3.3% of total funds. With the requirement
for a 5% annual real increase in the local roads budget the counterpart funds reach also 3.3% of total funds
in the peak year.
Fiscal Impact (US$ millions)                                        l
Yer Counterpart Roads Budget Counterpart as Roads Budget Counrpart as %
Yer Funds    (GRD internal  % of budget  w'h 5% p.a.  of budget
_____          ~~~~only)  _ _ _ _ __   increase  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1996                    21.7                    21.7
1997                     0.7                     0.7
1998                    13.3                    13.3
1999                    31.9                    31.9
2000                    29.4                    29.4
2001                    36.1                    36.1
2002                    36.1                    36.1
2003       0.4          36.1       1.1%         38.0         1.1%
2004       1.3          36.1       3.3%         39.9         3.3%
2005       1.3          36.1       3.3%         41.8         3.1%
2006       0.6          36.1       1.7%         43.9         1.4%
2007       0.3          36.1       0.8%         46.1         0.7%
3. Technical:
GRD is an experienced road organization that has implemented three previous IDA-supported projects. In
addition local consulting and construction companies, developed and strengthened during implementation of
IDA projects, have now sufficient capacity to undertake road maintenance contracts. There should
therefore be no major technical issues other than to ensure that quality control is adequately administered,
for which foreign consultants will be engaged.
4. Institutional:
The restructuring arrangements and institutional strengthening included in the project will be critical to its
success as one has to acknowledge that Albania still needs to continue to improve its governance and that
supervision and other Bank procedures need to be particularly thomugh. The project includes a program of
technical support which will contribute to the establishment of good administrative procedures and
practices. The application of World Bank procedures for the selection of consultants should help in hiring
the most capable experts to achieve the desired results.
- 16 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
For the road maintenance component (Component 1) the executing agency will be MOTT working through
GRD, in close coopertion with MLGD regarding the rural network. For the traffic safety component
(Component 2) the executing agency will be MOTT through DRS, and in coordination with GRD, MLGD,
and the Traffic Police under MPO. All legal issues and the actions of the two Ministries (MOTT and
MLGD) will be coordinated through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). A second MOU signed
between MOTT and the Municipality of Tirana will addresses issues related to the inclusion in the project
of roads located within the city. A summary of the arrangements for project implementation is shown
graphically in the figure below.
Summary Scheme for Project Implementation
3                     ~~~~~~~~~~D C A   |TbWol  ni|
r Ministry of Public   Ministry Of Transport                  Mlinitry of Local |
Order             *nd Telecommunication                   Go> Governmenta*nd
ICd Ta        nDecentralization l
I TafcPolice          G 6eneral Roads                                     l
+   +             j   ~   ~   ~~irectoate         rana Mncplt
Road Main enance
I                   ~~~~~~~Project Implet"entation- -I - - -- -  
l _                              Unit
AMP    aMP                A~~~~~MP
Trafic Safety  NainlRaaRural Roada
4.2 Project management:
One PIU would manage the project: the IDA Financed Roads PIU within GRD. MLGD will provide the
PIU with at least one additional staff who will be trained during project implementation so as to establish a
project implementation capability in MLGD, including contract management. The PIU will be responsible
for all the procurement under the proposed project. The PIU will contact directly each entity for matters
relating to that entity in order to ensure an efficient implementation of the project. The PIU is currently
satisfactorily implementing two IDA financed projects: the Emergency Road Repair Project (ERRP) and
the National Roads Project. The latter will be closed on June 30, 2002. Consequently there should be no
overload of the PIU to assume responsibility for implementing the proposed project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
All Bank-financed procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Procurement for goods
and works would follow the Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement
of consulting services would follow the Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The capability
already established under GRD (IDA Financed Roads PIU) will facilitate the procurement to be carried out
under the project Procurement arrangement and actions to enhance the capacity of the PIU to conduct
procurement under the project are described in Annex 6.
- 17 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The PIU is currently implementing two other Bank-financed projects (the National Roads and the
Emergency Road Repair) and the accounting, reporting, disbursement, budgeting and auditing
arrangements, including procedures and policies, have been established prior to the financial management
assessment. These arrangements are based on the same accounting system in use by the Emergency Road
Repair Project. Staffing is adequate. The project accountant have been working for several years in
similar positions in Bank-financed operations, within the GRD, gaining substantial experience in
accounting and disbursement matters, in infrastructure projects.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with World Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment) the
project is rated environmental category B and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
prepared by the Borrower (see Annex 8). The project is expected to have only minor negative impacts on
the environment, as it will focus on road rnaintenance and rehabilitation activities, such as filling and
patching potholes and areas of bituminous pavement that have become loose/dislodged; fixing and painting
parts of the drainage structures, culverts and pipes; replacing lost material on shoulders, improving road
safety conditions by posting hazard warning signs and physical barriers at high risk spots. All works will
be carried out on the existing road, with no resettlement or land acquisition activities anticipated.
Slight negative impacts primarily of a temporary nature are associated with the construction phase and
would be restricted to road works related to movements of men, and materials (asphalt, rocks, dust, noise
etc.), excavation of borrow pits, disposal of construction wastes, and handling and storage of materials
(concrete, asphalt, lubricants, fuels, paints). After completion, the project will have positive indirect
impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of accidents; reduced air pollution from
more even travel speeds on rehabilitated road sections; cleaning up of solid waste from roadside drains; and
reduced water pollution resulting from rehabilitated drainage systems. Materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, etc.)
would be supplied only from sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals for environment
and worker safety, and any equipment used during construction would meet intemationally recognized
standards for environment and worker health and safety.
A significant issue that has emerged is the dumping of solid wastes into highway drainage channels. During
the initial surveys it was found that in and around settlements, drainage channels and right-of-way on rural
as well as national roads all over the country are being used as receptacles for garbage, plastic bags,
broken machinery and household appliances and other trash. The practice while being detrimental to public
health, is also instrumental in deteriorating the condition of the roads due to reduced drainage capacity. A
number of such sites have been identified under the project, some constituting major dumping grounds
requiring significant clean up efforts. Therefore, while pursuing a policy of doing no harm, the project will
also pursue opportunities for environmental improvement by cleaning up waste from roadside drains and
organizing public awareness campaigns on solid waste management.
Currently, the tax structure for gasoline in Albania favors the use of leaded gasoline as this is cheaper than
unleaded gasoline. A higher tax rate for leaded gasoline to reflect the social costs of the negative health
impacts caused by lead is needed.
The EMP prepared by the Borrower addresses these issues and has been discussed in public meetings held
in each of the 12 Prefectures in Albania. The EMP was also released in-country in the local language.
- 18 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes: mitigation plan, monitoring plan, implementation anrangements, institutional
strengthening needs, estimated costs, and a record of the public consultations. The World Bank reviewed
the document during a pre-appraisal mission and requested some revisions and clarifications. Provisions of
the EMP will be applied to all activities undertaken as part of the project by the GRD and MLGD,
including design of road works. As appropriate, mitigation measures specified in the EMP will be
incorporated in each bidding document for works and contractors will be required to build into their bid
rates the envisaged costs for these mitigation measures. The terms and conditions of the contracts will
require compliance with the EMP as a condition of the contract to proceed and Qbtain payments.
Solid waste clean up will be entrusted to licensed operators, with appropriate provisions in their contract
documents to carry out visual inspections for hazardous materials before handling, segregate waste
fractions as necessary, use appropriate safety measures while handling and transporting the wastes, and
dispose at authorized dump sites with the approval of the local authorities.
The institutional strengthening measures include a local environmental engineering consultant in the PIU to
assist with the preparation. of bidding documents for the solid waste clean up, and to conduct public
information campaigns and organize community drive to better collect and dispose of solid waste. The
consultant will also provide training on the environmental management aspects of the project to the
Ministry of Environment and its regional offices, the region level road agencies of the GRD and MLGD,
and the community focal persons (on solid waste management issues). The EMP recommends that the
GRD/MLGD initiate a dialogue with the appropriate government agencies on the solid waste issue and
undertake measures to prohibit waste dumping on the roads.
The Borrower agreed at negotisations to implement the EMP through the institutional arrangements
described in the document. The supervising consultant contract will include assistance for EMP
implementation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 20, 2002
Final draft EMP has been delivered to the World Bank Infoshop.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmnental irnpacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were fully consulted. Description of who were consulted, when, where, and the method of
consultation are fully described in the EMP Section 11. Public hearings were held in all 12 Prefectures. The
participants included national and local public institutions, NGOs and members of affected communities
living close to road sections to be rehabilitated under the project. During these consultations, the
Chairpersons of the Prefects assisted by their technical staff and Directors of the Regional and Rural Road
Directorates addressed questions on the environmental and social aspects of the project. The stakeholders
affirmed their commitment to support the project in its stated environmental objectives, especially with
regards to the clearing and disposal of road side solid waste.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 19 -



A detailed monitoring program designed to validate the effectiveness of the mitigating measures is included
in the EMP. The monitoring program will be the responsibility of the Road Directorate, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Environment and its local offices.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The critical need for increased access and connectivity, safety and comfort, and access to employment
opportunities are among some of the fundamental social issues in the transport sector in Albania.
Access to basic health, educational, and market services for people in isolated and remote towns has been a
criterion in the selection of roads for maintenance. Consultations have revealed that people continue to
remain in regions that are isolated, which provide few economic opportunities, and where access to health
care, education and other social services are expensive or simply unavailable; current obstacles including
the difficulty of finding affordable housing, the cost of relocating, and the lack of information about job
prospects elsewhere or confidence of finding work are major reasons why people continue to live in such
locations. It appears that the ability of these towns to withstand the restructuring depends on whether
investments are being made to build on the diversification opportunities in the local economy. Maintenance
of these roads will be a first step in this direction.
It is expected that road users will benefit from the proposed improvements on account of comfort, safety,
vehicle breakdown, and reduced travel time as well. Equipment items (i.e. reflective traffic signs and
thermoplastic paint for road markings) will improve management of the traffic system; enforcement of
traffic regulations will improve driver's behavior, and reduce the number of accidents for passenger and
freight vehicles, non-motorized vehicles, and pedestrians. It is also expected that jobs in the roads sector
will be created for communities through the local community contracting system.
The differentiated taxation with a 5 % difference in favor of unleaded gasoline is expected to facilitate the
adjustment of consumer habits and demand, resulting in significant social benefits in terms of improved
human health.
The positive benefits that will accompany this road maintenance program will far outweigh any temporary
discomforts/ disruptions in traffic, materials transport, noise and dust at the construction site, or risk of
water contamination by improper handling of concrete, asphalt or solvents. (An Environmental
Management Plan has been drafted to address these issues). No adverse impacts such as removal of kiosks
or fences that overhang/extend into the right-of-way (ROW) are expected in the maintenance of national
roads network given the limited scope of maintenance work along the highways. However, since the exact
scope of civil works and engineering design plans for the rural roads and accident "black spots" are still
pending, a policy framework has been put in place for compliance with safeguard issues relating to
potential minor adverse impacts that may arise in the context of the project (See Annex 12).
The project's social development outcomes are therefore improved access to economic opportunities and
social amenities, especially in rural areas; enhanced road safety; improved health; and increased
accountability of local govemments to its constituents.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders in the project are the GRD, RRDs, local municipal govemments, private sector
- 20 -



contractors, the local automobile clubs, the road transport operators' association, the chambers of
commerce and road users. Since all maintenance work will be carried out within the existing ROW, and the
scope of civil works is largely limited to unblocking drainage canals; filling potholes; repairing brickwork
or stonework; backfilling; painting traffic markings; erecting hazard warning boards, no land acquisition is
envisaged, and social impacts are expected to be positive. There will be no forcible removal of secondary
claims on the ROW. Groups that may be adversely affected by civil works are encroachers in the
right-of-way; they will only be persuaded to remove encroachments by peer pressure from communities that
are eager to see their community roads maintained. If communities are not willing to remove such
structures other sites will be chosen for maintenance.
The project will incorporate an information campaign to provide advance notification to the public to
encourage voluntary removal of structures on the ROW, and to win public support for the project.
Communities will also participate in the project as monitoring agents to ensure timely and adequate
implementation of rural road maintenance. The traditional approach to enhancing sustainability of projects
is to seek contributions in cash or kind from beneficiaries, so that they develop a stake in the success of the
project. However, given the depth of poverty, particularly in rural areas, the project preparation team
determined that requiring beneficiaries to make monetary contribution is regressive. The level of disrepair
and lack of maintenance of roads is partly attributable to the rampant corruption and the diversion of public
funds. As a modest measure against this, the local community contracting component of the project
includes a requirement for public local disclosure of allotted funds against a time-table. With this
requirement, the project seeks to begin a process of civic participation and establish an opportunity for
people to take on new roles as consumers who pressure governments and their representatives for provision
of efficient services.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultation on road safety issues and concerns were carried out with the public in different parts of the
country during project preparation. Issues of access, the need to generate local employment opportunities,
and the need to improve road safety emerged as priorities of communities nation-wide. The project
preparation team also consulted with NGOs and relevant Albanian implementing agencies in other IDA
projects to deternine their approaches to increasing public participation in the project. An NGO (The
Institute for Public Opinion Studies) will also disseminate information regarding allocation of funds and
mapping of responsibilities on community contracts.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A PIU will implement the project and will be responsible for all procurement under the project. Issues
relating to the institutional relationship between the PIU and the NGO is expected to be finalized during the
initial stages of project implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes may be monitored using the following indicators: the number of rural roads
selected and maintained for access, the number of community-based sub-projects identified and
implemented or completed, and the number of local jobs created. Further, reduced traffic accident rates
will also be monitored throughout the project. The priority road sections for maintenance will include
access to at least one of the regional hospitals recently upgraded under the IDA-financed Health Services
Rehabilitation Project. This will provide an opportunity to compare accessibility to the hospital before and
- 21 -



after maintenance of the access roads. Technical assistance will fund an assessment of project impact on
health facility accessibility. Participation of cormnunities in measuring these outcomes are also being
planned and local NGOs will be involved in securing participatory performance monitoring, as well as in
determiining the indicators of improved access and reduced travel times to social services.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safe rd policies a  I to the roect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes O No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)          _          Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     C) Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  D Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See the environmental and social sections above. At an early stage in project preparation it was considered
that resettlement issues might possibly arise from small business encroachments on road rights-of-way, and
a policy framnework for safeguard compliance for minor adverse impacts was prepared. As the project
definition has evolved, and more emphasis has been placed on routine maintenance (e.g., pothole patching)
rather than periodic maintenance, the probability that any resettlement issues will arise has become even
more remote. Nevertheless the safeguard compliance framework remains incorporated in the project (see
Annex 12 and also Annex 3 of the EMP). No land acquisition is expected under the project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project will depend on the degree of Government commitmnent to the restructuring
of the road maintenance and the performance of the NRSC and its supporting Secretariat (DRS) in carrying
out road safety measures. The project will address the issue of road management capacity, road
maintenance efficiency, and prioritization of activities according to economic criteria. However, it will not,
beyond the project implementation period, provide leverage to ensure that sufficient resources are being
allocated to the conservation of road assets, and that only economically sound road construction projects
are being undertaken. These two specific aspects should continue to be monitored through other Bank
activities such as follow-on projects or adjustment lending.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
1. Govenmment may not allocate sufficient  S         The Government's serious commitment to
resources to road maintenance and                    improve road maintenance in the country is
rehabilitation.                                      shown in the 2001-2003 and 2002-2004
Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks
(MTEF), published by the MOF in December
- 22 -



2000 and June 2001.
Loan condition to increase the annual budgets of
the GRD for maintenance by not less than 5
percent in real terms during the life of the
project.
2. Government may not adopt sound          H         Continued dialogue between the Bank and the
personnel management policy, including               Government on staff appointment. The project
adequate training and reduced high level             includes appropriate training for staff involved
staff turnover.                                     in the project
3. Members of the Cabinet and/or           M         Approval of a new Road Code and Regulation,
Parliament may not thrust traffic safety             and the establishment of the NRSC and
issues on the Govermnent Agenda to                  supporting Secretariat (DRS), through Order
design a real and efficient Road Safety             No. 13 of the Council of Ministers, dated
Policy.                                             January 15, 2002 is a good indication of
commitment. A high level road safety seminar
is expected to help maintain the focus on safety.
4. MOTT/DRS, MLGD, GRD, Traffic            M         Comprehensive TA is being provided.
Police, and NRSC Staff may not                       Key Government agencies (i.e. MOTT, GRD,
understand the interdisciplinary nature of           MLGD, MPO (Traffic Police) and Ministry of
the subject and work efficiently together.           Health) have expressed their strong support for
improving road safety and accept IDA support
to implement the RSP.
From Components to Outputs
1. Government counterpart funds may not    S        2001-2003 Medium-Term Expenditure
be made available on a timely basis.                 Framework (MTEF) December 2000.
Loan condition to provide counterpart funds on
a timely basis with deposit into the Project
Account.
2. MOTT/DRS, MLGD, GRD, Traffic            M         Road Maintenance Strategy letter from Minister
Police, and NRSC staff may not be                    of Finance and Minister of Transport
responsive to agreed changes.                       (November 1, 1999) asked the Bank for
assistance in financing a Road Maintenance
Project; MLGD letter of 17 July 2000 confirms
its commitment; Comprehensive TA is being
provided.
3. Private contractors may not be          M         Comprehensive TA is being provided including
responsive to new forms of contract.                training.
4. Adequate staffing and resources may     S         Comprehensive TA is being provided with
not be available to the involved agencies            specific training in key areas.
and ministries.
5. Staff may not be competent to           M         Training will be provided for MOTT, MLGD,
implement the new procedures and                     and Traffic Police in key road maintenance and
participate in their installation and the            safety areas.
-23 -



|related training programs.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negiigible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project has no controversial aspects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower has opened a Project Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA and has deposited
US$300,000 equivalent in that account.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i) In addition to the counterpart financing, the annual budgets of the GRD for maintenance will be
increased each year by not less than 5 percent in real terms during the life of the project, starting from the
2001 level of US$ 7.6 million..
(ii) The Government will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project financial
management systems by December 31, 2002.
(iii) Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
(iv) The Borrower will assure that the Environmental Management Plan is carried out.
(v) Not later than November 30 of each year, the Government will furnish IDA the annual project
implementation work program for the next year, including procurement and financing plans, and will
review these plans with IDA before implementing them.
(vi) The Government will submit to IDA, commencing upon Credit effectiveness, a quarterly Project
Progress Report not later that 45 days after the end of each quarter outlining progress made in the
implementation of each project component, as well as the problems encountered and how they are being
addressed.
(vii) The Government will prepare a report, by August 31, 2004, outlining the progress made in carrying
out the project, and will review the report by September 30, 2004, in order to determine if the progress
toward meeting the project objectives is on schedule; the Government will then make any necessary
adjustments suggested by the Review in order to assure that the project objectives are achieved by the
project completion date.
(viii)The Government will prepare, not later than 3 months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report,
both of which will be reviewed with IDA.
(ix) The Government will cause GRD to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited each
year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
(x) The Government will assure that all land acquisitions during the implementation of the project will be
in accordance with procedures for compensation and replacement which will have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by IDA.
-24 -



(xi) The Government will review and adjust, not later than June 30, 2003, the taxes on leaded and
unleaded gasolines, so that the average retail price of the leaded gasoline is at least 5% higher than the
average retail price of the unleaded gasoline.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
12 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0i 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approv a e project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
)   7-- Ce-sar  ei~roz                   Hossein RAp4i                     Christi     Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Diryor                     Country Director
okv            2kx
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Setoj-related CAS Goal:   Sector IndicatoPr: Sector/ country reports:         (from Goal to Bank MissGon)
Probjtiv: sustainable private Improving trends in regional  Bank CAS updates;   trong Government
Tosreduce transpthrough the  economic and trade statistics  ESW (occasionas). tommitar  ent to the CAS
improvement of infrastructure (2000-2005).                                     reform agenda.
provision with emphasis on
private sector participation.
ProJect Development        Outcome I Impact          ProJect reports:           (from ObJective to Goal)
ObJective:                 Indicators:
To reduce transport costs on  Percent of population in the  Specific surveys to be  Macroeconomic stabilization
priority sections of the main  pilot areas with improved  designed and launched.  and structural reform
road network, reduce accident access to essential social                        pograms carried out.
rates, and provide better  services (Vlora and Shkodra
accessibility to rural areas and hospitals):
essential social services.  Baseline: 0%
Mid-term: 15%
End: 30%/o
Traffic surveys demonstrate  Traffic survey reports
the achievement of expected  comparing before and after
reductions in travel time of  traffic statistics on improved
cars on priority national road  road sections.
sections (total vehicle-hours):
Baseline: 0%
Mid-term: 10%
End: 20%
National accident records  Annual traffic safety
indicate significant reductions reports/statistics.
in traffic fatality rates
(Baseline: 15.12
fatalities/10,000 vehicles in
2000):
Baseline: 0%
Mid-term: 5%
End: 10%
-26 -



Priority road sections    Compliance with agreed road Quarterly progress reports;  Government will allocate
maintained.               standards and approved    Evaluation mission reports  sufficient resources to road
designs in segments      (MTR & ICR);               maintenance and
designated for maintenance,  Technical audit reports  rehabilitation.
with significant reductions in (annual).
road roughness (average
baseline roughness, weighted
by traffic volume and section
length)
a) for Main National Roads
Baseline: 7.26
Mid-term: 6.5
End: 5
b) for Rural Roads
Baseline: 10
Mid-term: 8
End: 6
Efficiency of the management National road administration  Quarterly progress reports;  Government will adopt sound
and maintenance of the    (General Roads Directorate -  Supervision mission reports;  personnel management policy,
national and rural road   GRD) restructured and     Evaluation mission reports  including adequate training
networks improved.        strengthened:             (MTR & ICR).              and reduced high level staff
Baseline: Not restructured                         turnover.
Mid-term: GRD restructured,
partly operational
End: Fully operational
Pavement and bridge
management system
operational.
Baseline: PBMS being
designed
Mid-term: PBMS approved
and implemented
End: PBMS fully operational
Pavement management
system operational.
Baseline: PMS being designed
Mid-term: PMS implemented
End: PMS fully operational
Rural and municipal road
administration (Ministry of
Local Government and
Decentarlization - MLGD)
strengthened.
Baseline: functioning at
- 27 -



limited capacity
Mid-term: Strengthening
program under
implementation
End: fully operational
2. - TRAFFIC SAFETY:
Designated accident       Number of designated       Quarterly progress reports;  Members of the Cabinet
'blackspots' upgraded by  'blackspot' areas improved in  Supervision mission reports;  and/or Parliament are
incorporating safety-minded  compliance with agreed  Evaluation mission reports  mobilized and are willing to
design features.           designs:                  (MTR & ICR);             thrust traffic safety issues on
Baseline: 0               Technical audit reports   the Government Agenda to
Mid-term: 20              (annual).                  design a real and efficient
End: 30                                              Road Safety Policy.
Multi-agency Road Safety  Institutional capacity     Quarterly progress reports;  MOTT/DRS, MLGD, GRD,
Program implemented.      developed within           Supervision mission reports;  Traffic Police, and DRS Staff
MOTT/GRD and MLGD to       Evaluation mission reports  will understand the
identify hazardous locations  (MTR & ICR).          interdisciplinary of the subject
and to design and implement                          and work efficiently together.
physical measures to reduce
road accidents at these
locations, as reflected in
annual programs:
Baseline: No program nor
safety audit
Mid-term: Improved accident
data base and analysis
procedures in place, Annual
action programs prepared by
agencies
End: Annual programs
satisfactorily implemented
Institutional capacity
developed within the traffic
police to improve
enforcement aimed at specific
unsafe road user behavior in
order to reduce traffic
accidents caused by identified
key causal factors:
Baseline: Targeted
enforcement practices limited.
0% baseline (2000) for
accidents where speeding,
drink-driving, no use of
seat-belts and reckless driving
are contributing factors
Mid-term:Radars, alcohol
testers in use and enforcement
statistics show increased
number of fines for speeding,
drink-driving, no use of
-28 -



seat-belts and reckless
driving. Accidents involving
each of these factors reduced
by 5%
End: Statistics show 10%
reduction in accidents
involving each of the factors
of speeding, drink-driving, no
use of seat-belts, and reckless
driving
Improved cooperation
between agencies and fully
functional DRS, as reflected
in DRS Quarterly Reports to
the Govermnent and to the
Public:
Baseline: No reports prepared
Mid-term: Quarterly reports
regularly submitted to the
Government
End: Reports are also
disseminated to the public.
-29 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1 - ROAD MAINTENANCE: US$18.65 million             Quarterly progress reports,  Govermnent counterpart
supervision reports, financial fimds will be made available
L.a - Periodic and routine                         annual audit reports and  on a timely basis.
maintenance of about 500 Iam                        quarterly disbursement
of main national roads.                             reports.                  MOTT/DRS, MLGD, GRD,
l.b - Periodic and routine                                                   Traffic Police, NRSC Staff
maintenance of about 500 km                                                   responsive to agreed changes.
of rural roads.
l.c - Equipment for road                                                     Private contractors responsive
survey (pavement                                                             to new forms of contract.
management), office supplies
and vehicles.
l.d - Technical assistance
(restructuring road
management, road user
charges and maintenance
finance), project design,
supervision of civil works,
and training.
l.e - Equipment for road
databank implementation.
2 - TRAFFIC SAFETY:       US$2.20 million           Same.                     Adequate staffing and
resources made available to
2.a - Improvement of about                                                   the involved agencies and
15 accident black spots not                                                   ministries.
located on roads where
periodic maintenance is done
under the project.
2.b - Road safety equipment,
hardware and software.
2.c - Equipment for
enforcement of road code
regulations.
2.d - Technical assistance                                                    Staff are competent to
(road safety awareness                                                        implement the new
seminar, strengthen DRS),                                                     procedures and participate in
project design, supervision of                                                their installation and the
civil works, and training                                                     related training programs.
(GRD, MLGD, MPO-traffic
police).
A methodology for monitoring indicators has been discussed with the implementing agencies and is developed in
Annex 14
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$18.65 million
Maintenance of National and Rural Roads
Civil Works:
a. Periodic and routine maintenance works on paved routes of the Main National Network, including their
urban sections if any, totaling 244 km. Highest priority sections were selected from a list of 3,200 km of
roads on the basis of an engineering analysis and an economic evaluation using HDM4. (US$ 8.0 million).
*  Periodic maintenance will be carried out on sections totaling 77 kin, to bring their condition back to
a level of service and trafficability which will allow routine maintenance operations to preserve this
level of service constant in the medium term. Works will include major repairs to each of the road
elements (embankment slopes, shoulders, pavement layers, signing), to the structures and the drainage
systems as required, followed by a general pavement overlay and appropriate road markings, signs and
guardrails and would include improvement of about 15 traffic accident "Black spots" along the selected
itineraries.
*  Routine maintenance will be carried out on sections located between and adjacent to the sections
where periodic maintenance will take place.
b. Routine maintenance works contracted to the private sector including minor repairs on the roadway,
pavement, drainage system and structures, road markings, signs and guardrails, for the above 244 km of
roads of the Main National Road Network during two years and on 260 km of other recently rehabilitated
sections of the Main National Road Network during three years (US$ 3.0 million).
c. Periodic maintenance works on about 235 km of mainly unpaved roads and on bridges of the Rural
Road Network. Highest priority sections were selected from a list of 1,700 km of roads on the basis of an
engineering analysis and of an assessment of socioeconomic impacts (amount of rural population
concerned, need to improve access to health or education facilities, to agricultural markets or tourist sites)
(US$ 4.0 million).
d. Routine maintenance works contracted for three years to the private sector including grading of the
surface, minor repairs on the roadway, drainage system and structures, for the above 235 km of roads of
the Rural Road Network during two years and on 265 km of other recently rehabilitated sections of the
Rural Road Network during three years (US$ 0.96 million).
Goods:
a. Equipment for road survey for GRD and MLGD (pavement strength and roughness measurement
devices, automatic traffic counters, axles load scales), office equipment, vehicles and supplies for effective
project implementation (US$ 0.3 million).
b. Computer hardware and software (including GIS and plotter) for the road and bridges database
development and for implementation of a road asset management system (US$ 0.1 million).
Training and Technical Assistance:
a. Training and consultant services for MOTT/GRD/MLGD to assist in:
* the restructuring of the Main National, and Rural roads management organization and systems,
including reorganization of GRD and development of a Rural Road Department within MLGD,
- 31 -



definition of general operation, contract management, budgeting and accounting procedures as well as
training of the key staff in their application. Assessing the social and financial impacts of this
reorganization as well as of utilization of maintenance by contract for the whole road network in order
to develop adequate mitigation measures (US$ 0.15 million);
a designing and recommending an appropriate road user charge system (including definition of tax
bases and rates, collection, banking, accounting and disbursement mechanisms, method of allocation to
each type of roads, methods of adjustment for inflation) for financing road maintenance operations
based on an analysis of road maintenance funding requirements (US$ 0.15 million);
*  evaluating project impact on access to social amenities, particularly health facilities, schools,
markets and of impact on improvement on safety and on access to local employment and market
opportunities (US$ 0.05 million).
b. Consultant services to prepare the engineering design, the contract documents and carry out
supervision of all the road periodic and routine maintenance works (IJS$ 1.49 million).
c. Support and training for the development of the private road construction industry, including
organization of new firms, preparation of business and financing plans, preparation of tenders, organization
for implementation of maintenance projects, contract management and invoicing methods, employment of
unskilled labor, and possibly utilization of labor intensive methods (US$ 0.2 million for basic support,
training being mainly provided by the supervision consultants).
d. Consultant services for PIU operation (US$ 0.25 million).
Project Component 2 - US$2.20 million
Traffic Safety
Civil Works:
a. Remedial work on 15 traffic accident "Black spots" on Main National Roads from a list of 96 (in
addition to 15 traffic accident "Black spots" expected to be included in the above mentioned periodic
maintenance contracts) which the Traffic Police has identified as especially dangerous to the various
categories of road users, i.e. to pedestrians, bicyclists and other road users as well as the occupants of
vehicles. Remedial works will include horizontal (road markings) and vertical (signs) signalisation in
addition to physical improvement of the road pavement and its shoulders, plus installation of roadside
barriers along hazardous parts of certain mountain roads and additions to unsafe bridge parapets.
Intersection treatments will be applied for the first time to both old and newly constructed locations, and
special treatments will be devised as interim solutions at particularly dangerous locations (US$ 0.75
million).
Goods:
a. Hardware and software for the Traffic Police accident unit to establish a data storage/retrieval and
analysis system, and for the MOTT Directorate of Road Safety to facilitate establishment of a GOA
transport and road safety statistics web-site (US$ 0.1 million);
b. Equipment for the traffic police to improve specific enforcement priorities, including speed management
(laser or radar equipment) and drink driving (Breathalyzer and blood testing equipment), to support
accident investigations, and for emergency response activities (first aid kits) (US$ 0.25 million).
- 32 -



Training and Technical Assistance:
a. Consultant services to conduct a road safety awareness seminar for senior GOA and other officials
(US$0.1 million);
b. Consultant services and training (US$1.0 million) for MOTT, GRD, DRS, MLGD and Traffic Police
and other agencies for:
- supporting establishment of the DRS and its working procedures;
- developing working/reporting DRS arrangements with NRSC to introduce a sustainable Road
Safety Program;
- developing coordinated working procedures among NRSC, DRS, GRD, MLGD, Traffic Police,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, municipal governments, and other
public and private sector agencies involved in road safety;
- reviewing/updating of the Road Code/Regulation for road safety initiatives;
- developing strategies/plans for road safety campaigns and carrying out such campaigns;
- identifying potential uses for the INSIG 'traffic accident prevention fund' and encouraging wider
participation of insurance companies in road safety;
- reviewing driver training and testing procedures/ quality control of driving schools, instructors and
examiners/ potential for 'graduated licensing';
- reviewing vehicle testing and inspection procedures/quality control of testing stations and
inspectors;
- reviewing current licensing/franchising of commercial passenger vehicles (bus, mini-bus, vans,
taxis) and recommending improvements to increase safety and efficiency of passenger road transport;
- liaison with EU-funded projects having a road safety focus;
- liaison with other projects that have cross-cutting sector themes with road safety;
- developing road safety education within the schools system;
- developing GOA web-page of transport and road safety data;
- identifying needs and justifying annual budget allocation for road safety activities;
- operationalizing traffic safety audit procedures during roads planning, design and construction;
-  developing techniques to identify priority accident black spot locations and implement remedial
measures;
- liaison with rural community groups and road safety associations (including other IDA-funded
projects in Albania);
- designing traffic control devices at hazardous locations on the GRD/MLGD road network;
- extending (GRD) road referencing system to MLGD road network;
- introducing the accident site report form, establishing the accident database and analysis system,
and procedures for data dissemination;
- establishing targeted enforcement strategies/campaigns to improve road safety and road user
behavior;
- developing strengthened emergency response and accident investigation procedures.
- 33 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
1. Maintenance of National and Rural Roads                  5.31         10.64         15.95
2. Traffic Safety                                           0.29          1.15          1.44
Total Baseline Cost                                         5.60         11.79         17.39
Physical Contingencies                                     0. 84         1.77          2.61
Price Contingencies                                        0.28          0.57          0.85
Total Project Costs'               6.72         14.13         20.85
Total Financing Required                6.72         14.13         20.85
1. Works                                                      5.82          10.89        16.71
2. Goods                                                      0.00           0.75         0.75
3. Services and Training                                      0.90           2.49         3.39
Other                                                         0.00           0.00.00
Total Project Costs'      6.72          14.13         20.85
Total Financing Required       6.72          14.13         20.85
All the estimated costs are excluding VAT.
Identifiable taxes and dubes are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 20.85 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio ts 81.53% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 34 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
The economic analysis of investments on the national road network has been carried out using a cost -
benefit approach and is described in the first part of the following annex. The selection of national road
segments was also based on a social assessment of the national roads network undertaken at the same time
as the initial national roads condition survey. The selection of runal roads to be included in the project has
been carried out using an approach based on cost effectiveness which is described in the second part of the
this annex.
Part 1: NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK - Cost Benefit Analysis
Present Value of Flo s (US$ million)
Economic analysis
Net Benefits:                     24.2
EIRR:                              75 %
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic evaluation has been carried out on that part of the project concerned with the application of
periodic and routine maintenance works to the national road network. The proposed maintenance
interventions cover 242 km of roads out of a paved national network of 3,176 km and 1.8 km of roads in
the capital, Tirana. The budgetary ceiling for the proposed maintenance interventions is US$ 8 million.
The project encompassing the national roads, involves both periodic and routine maintenance components
and the economic evaluation has been carried out incorporating both maintenance interventions for each of
the proposed road sections.
Main Assumptions:
The economic analyses have been carried out on 969 km of national roads over a ten year analysis period.
The original selection of roads for purposes of the economic analysis was made on the basis of their current
condition in terns of road roughness and their suitability for periodic maintenance treatment. Out of a total
of 1,057 km of candidate roads, 88 km are in need of reconstruction and are not therefore suitable for
maintenance works.
The economic analyses were carried out using the World Bank's HDM-4 simulation model using the
conventional approach of comparing vehicle operating cost and time savings between the base, without
project case, and the proposed, with maintenance project case. The model output enabled the road sections
to be ranked on the basis of EIRR and Net Present Value to Capital Cost (NPV:CC). A set of 22 road
sections made up the analysis. Within this set of 22 segments, eight constitute 'social access' roads, which
were included on the grounds of providing essential access to relatively deprived and dislocated
communities, i.e. their economic justification is based on the additional production ('value added') which
they are expected to induce, which was not quantified. Of the eight road sections selected for social
reasons, the economic analysis showed that six of them produced a positive NPV at the 12 percent rate of
return benchmark, with only two recording negative NPV values. The final selection of segrnents, to fit
within the budget limit, comprises six segments of which two are derived from the social access roads
work.
Much of the input data used in the model have been estimated with reference to secondary data through
- 35 -



available reports and previous studies together with inputs provided directly by the General Roads
Directorate. The input data have also been guided by the engineering-based field surveys allied with the
experienced engineering judgment of the Consultant. Primaxy data input to the model have come from field
surveys in respect of traffic counts and road roughness measurements.
The traffic count surveys indicate current daily traffic volumes ranging between less than 100 vehicles per
day (vpd) on some of the social access and feeder road portions of the national network, to 2,400 vpd on
the primary interurban connection between Tirana and Elbasan and more than 5,000 vpd on the road link
between Vora and Fushe Kruje. Traffic was assumed to grow at 7% per year for cars and buses and 5%
per year for trucks, i.e. conservatively in line with projected GDP growth (the Basic Indicators and
Macroeconomic Framework, 2000-2004 section from the November 2001 Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy projected real GDP to grow at 7% per year over 2002- 2004).
The complete set of input values used for the HDM analysis is provided as an attachment in Annex 8. The
results of the economic analyses are summarized in the following three tables.
Table 1 - Road Sections and Capital Costs
Road Section   Road   Length                 Capital Costs (US$ r illion)
Name         ID #   (km)    Overlay   Preparatory  Routine   Total    Cumulative
______________        ________    ~~~works  __ _ _ _   Costs      Costs
Vora - Fushe      52     12.0     0.54        0.01       0.00     0.54        0.54
Kruja_               _      __                   __                    _
Cemk - Elbasan    70     14.0     0.70        0.01       0.00     0.70        1.25
Tirana - Elbasan   3     48.0     1.42        0.73       0.02     2.18        3.42
Tepelene -        75     63.0     1.09        0.09       0.03      1.20      4.63
Carshove__         _ __                                            _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _
Paper (N7) -      59     14.0     0.45        0.37       0.00     0.82        5.45
Shtepaie*      I
Kukes - Krume*    23     91.0     0.33        0.60       0.05     0.97        6.41
Sub-total                242.0    4.53        1.81       0.10     6.41
Notes: * social access roads
Source: GRD consultants
- 36 -



Table 2 - Traffic, NPV, and EIRR
Road ectio Name Length  Traffic       NPVEIR                NVC
Road Section Name()           ADT      (US$ milUon)    EIRR      NPRaoc     Ranking
(km)  ADT                         ~~~~~~~~Ratio
Vora - Fushe Kruia   12.0     4,722        7.67        343.9%      14.11        1
Cernik - Elbasan     14.0     2,325        3.37        101.5%      4.80         2
Tirana - Elbasan    48.0      2,387        7.00        86.0%       3.22         3
Tepelene - Carshove  63.0      880         2.22        53.0%       1.84         4
Paper (N7) -         14.0     1,409        1.27        50.3%       1.54         5
Shtepaje           _ _ _ _                            _ _ __ _   _ _ _ _ _
Kukes - Krume*      91.0       604         0.44        25.6%       0.46         6
Total               242.0  _               21.97        82%
Notes: * social access roads
# at 12 per cent rate of discount
Source: GRD consultants
Table 3 - Roads in Tirana
Traffic    Capital       NPV                   EIRR       EIRR
Road Section Name    ADT     costs (US$     (US$        EIRR      +20%        -20%
ADTra 2million)       million) #              costs     traffic
Ring road: "21
December Square" -
"Vasil Shanto" bridge  5,760     0.63        1.183      54.9%      45.6%      43.6%
(0.445 am) _
Bajram Curri road:    2,000      0.57        0.437      31.5%      25.0%      23.6%
(0.740  Ian)         _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _
Don Bosco road:      2,000       0.30        0.632      60.7%      50.5%      48.4%
Total (1.785 km)                 1.500       2.252       47.5%     39.1%      37.3%
Notes: # at 12 per cent rate of discount
Source: GRC consultants
All the six road sections outside Tirana lie above the 12 percent rate of return benchmark with internal rate
of return (IRR) values ranging between 25.6 percent and 343.9 percent. The NPV:CC ratio ranges
between 0.46 to 14.11.
Overall, the periodic and routine maintenance of national roads component of the project has an economic
IRR of 82 percent with an NPV of US$ 21.97 million at 12 percent rate of discount. For the Tirana road
sections, positive returns are recorded with NPV, at 12 percent rate of discount, being US$ 2.25 million
and EIRR 47.5 percent.
Conclusions:
The national roads periodic and routine maintenance component of the project shows a relatively high net
present value with a correspondingly high economic internal rate of return. The NPV, at 12 percent rate of
discount, is US$ 21.97 million and the EIRR is 82 percent. The composition of the road sections
comprising the project includes both very high volume sections and relatively low volume roads, which
- 37 -



have been incorporated on the grounds of providing critical social accessibility. Although some of these
lower volume social roads reflect lower NPVs, their inclusion on social grounds is more than compensated
for by the high retums recorded by those road sections canying high traffic volumes. Taken together, the
national roads and Tirana road sections give values of US$ 24.2 million for NPV and 75 percent for the
EIRR.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Two sensitivity analyses have been carried out. The two sensitivity tests assume a rise in intervention costs
of 20 percent on the one hand, and a fall in base year traffic of 20 percent on the other. The results of this
analysis for each road section are shown in Table 3 (Tirana roads) above and Table 4 (other National
roads) below.
Table 4 - Sensitivity Analysis
Length  Trffic  NPVEIRR                    EIRR
Road Section Name  Length   Traic      (US$       EIRR      +20%        -20%
(kmn)    ADT      miflion) #              costs     traffic
Vora - Fushe Kruia  12.0    4,722       7.67     343.9%     216.9%     256.1%
Cerrik - Elbasan    14.0    2,325       3.37      101.5%    69.5%       79.9%
Tirana - Elbasan    48.0    2,387       7.00      86.0%     58.1%       67.8%
Tepelene - Carshove  63.0    880        2.22      53.0%     34.7%       41.2%
Paper (N7)-         14.0     1,409      1.27      50.3%     32.9%       39.2%
Shtepaje*
Kukes - Krume*      91.0     604        0.44      25.6%      12.1%      17.4%
Total              242.0      -        21.97       82%       53%         63%
Notes: * social access roads
# at 12 per cent rate of discount
Source: GRD consultants
For the national roads periodic and routine maintenance component, the project shows a greater sensitivity
to the rise in costs as opposed to the decline in traffic. In both instances however, the project still shows a
relatively high overall rate of retum, with half of the social access road sections continuing to remain
economically viable. For the Tirana road sections, the analysis shows a marginally greater sensitivity to
the change in traffic. The overall rate of return remains very positive.
Part 2: RURAL ROAD NETWORK
The rural road component of the project focuses on the provision of improved accessibility to and from
populated rural areas. Rural communities are scattered throughout the country, even in the mountainous
interior and eastern regions of the country. They were originally established in areas having a potentially
high level of agricultural productivity, or areas containing reserves of mineral resources, or areas having
some strategic significance. The predominant source of income and livelihood for these communities now
is based almost exclusively on the farming sector.
In the initial stage of analysis, candidate links in each of the country's twelve regions were identified using a
criterion that they be connected directly at one or both ends to a national road. Out of a total rural roads
network of about 4,000 km, about 1,700 km of candidate roads were thereby compiled. Following a round
- 38 -



of consultations with Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization staff at the regional office level
some of links have been discarded and others have been identified and added leaving a total 1,340 km of
candidate roads for evaluation. The road links were given an identity number in order to conform with the
numbering system established under the 1999 Iteco Engineering Ltd. study of the rural roads network and
are grouped into the individual Prefecture (Circle) and District areas.
The selection approach assumes that benefits accruing would be proportional to the number of person-trips
- to commercial and amenity centers for instance - for which travel cost and time savings could be expected
to occur. The analysis included an estimate of the population that would be expected to realize direct
benefits from the road works envisaged. Population levels were derived for the communes and adjacent
villages in each prefecture and in each region using INSTAT national census data from April 2001. By
examining the connecting roadways under regional government jurisdiction, a population was derived for
each 'catchment area' served by that possible project road link. A construction cost for each link was
estimated depending on length of section and terrain. A cost 'cost per capita' of reaching the population
associated with that link was derived. In addition to this quantitative cost effectiveness factor, priorities
within each Prefecture (Circle) and District have been established where possible on the basis of the
following qualitative factors relating to potential reductions in social dislocation and impacts:
* Improved network continuity in terms of inter-regional accessibility;
* Improved conditions in corridors leading to known areas of extreme poverty;
*  Improved conditions in corridors accessing areas of agricultural significance and/or tourism potential;
* Reduced travel times in corridors used for access to educational and health facilities.
Based on these factors project road links (totaling about 235 lum) were selected for periodic maintenance
from the ranked set of candidate links until the budget allocation (US$ 4 million) was exhausted. Further
road sections of about 265 km will receive routine maintenance at a cost of US$ 0.96 million. The total
length of rural roads maintained under the project will be about 500 km. The complete set of inputs used
and rankings obtained for the rural roads analysis are provided as attachments in Annex 8.
-39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Years Ending
December 31
| Yearl   I Year2    I Year3   | Year4   I Year5   I Year6    I Year7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.4        7.3       7.3        2.6       1.3       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         2.4        7.3       7.3        2.6       1.3       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             2.4        7.3       7.3        2.6       1.3       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  2.0        6.0       6.0       2.0        1.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.4        1.3       1.3       0.6       0.3       0.0        0.0
Central                0.4        1.3       1.3       0.6       0.3       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-flnancIers             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     2.4       7.3       7.3        2.6       1.3       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
A five-year disbursement period was assumed.
- 40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Procurement
Procurement - General
All Bank-financed procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Procurement for goods
and works would follow the Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement
of consulting services would follow the Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The terms Bank
and IDA will be further used interchangeably.
Procurement Responsibility
All procurement will be carried out by the General Road Administration (GRD). A full-time technical staff
member from the GRD has been assigned to carry out the procurement activities. The responsibilities of
the procurement specialist would include inter alia: (i) to prepare and submit to the Bank all procurement
documents which require the Bank's prior review; (ii) carry out any procurement action; (iii) prepare the
procurement reports, including an updated procurement plan, to be submitted periodically to the Bank; (iv)
update the General Procurement Notice and prepare Special Procurement Notices; (v) ensure that the
procurement process is conducted based on principles of efficiency, economy and transparency.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PIU
During the project preparation an assessment of the GRD capacity to conduct procurement was carried out
By that time, the Country Procurement Assessment Review was finalized. The PIU is currently in
operation implementing the Emergency Road Repair and the National Roads Projects. All the structures are
in place and the transition to the new project should not cause major challenges particularly that the
National Roads Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002. Thus the PIU has a core of qualified
staff with experience in Bank procurement. The agency has benefited from years of assistance by
intemational consultants in project monitoring, procurement and supervision. Salaries are generally in line
with the private sector. However, the experience so far with prior and post review of the PIIJs procurement
activities has indicated that the procurement procedures are not always transparent and that the PIU is
subject sometimes to outside pressures. Therefore, the agency is rated high risk. In order to address the
deficiencies identified during the capacity assessment, an action plan was prepared The action plan, agreed
at negotiations, stipulates that: (i) the PIU will prepare an operational manual defining the procedures,
flows of documents, procurement filling system, signatory powers, composition of the tendering
committees,and ethical requirements for the procurement staff; (ii) the local staff assigned to conduct
procurement will receive procurement training; (iii) an asset register will be maintained through the project
implementation for all goods and works financed out of Bank funds; (iv) technical assistance in
procurement during project implementation will be provided by international consultants with experience in
Bank procurement; (v) the latest versions of the Bank bidding document will be used, including the NCB
and MW bidding documents; (vi) Bank, GRD/MOTT will organize a project-launch workshop.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice was published after negotiations to announce the bidding opportunities
under the project and invite interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest and request any
additional information from the GRD. The General Procurement Notice will continue to be updated
annually. Specific Procurement Notices, on line, will be published for the ICB packages in UN
-41 -



Development Business.
Procurement Methods
(i) Works
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): would be used to procure works for contracts estimated to cost
US$ 1,000,000 or more each.
National Competitive Bidding(NCB): would be used to procure works for contracts estiinated to cost less
than US$ 1,000,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 9 million.
Minor Works (MW): would be used to procure works for contracts estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.2 million. Minor works will be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. To minimize the risk of getting
only one or two quotations, clients are advised to initially request more than three quotations. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Prior and post review by the Association of minor works contriacts: all contracts for the supply of MW
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to prior review as well as all
contracts awarded without competition, if any. The first two contracts for MW under each of the two
components of the project for each year will be subject to prior review. All other contracts will be subject
to post review.
(ii) Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): would be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to cost
US$ 100,000 or more each.
International Shopping (IS): would be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 280,000. The Borrower shall obtain quotations from at
least three suppliers from at least two different countries, which may include the Borrower's. To minimize
the risk of getting only one or two quotations, clients are advised to initially request more than three
quotations. The Borrower may also at the time of the request, verify whether those being invited will make
an offer or not. Quotation for foreign goods located in the Borrower country and offered by a firm located
in the Borrower country, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the "two different
countries" rule.
Prior and post review by the Association of goods contracts: all contracts for the supply of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to prior review as well as all
contracts awarded without competition, if any. All other contracts will be subject to post review.
(iii) Consulting Services
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): would be used to hire consulting firms to provide technical
assistance and training under the project, except as otherwise provided below.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ): would be used to hire consulting firms up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 300,000 to provide training and technical assistance under the project.
Least Cost Selection (LCS): would be used for the contract for audit services.
-42 -



Individuals: would be hired to provide technical assistance in accordance to Section V of the Guidelines up
to an aggregate amount of US$ 300,000 (includes the PIU staff).
Prior and post review by the Association of the Consulting Contracts: aU contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more per contract with firms and US$ 50,000 or more with individuals will
be subject to prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post review, and all Terms of Reference
will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule:
The agreed procurement plan will be used as a basis for procurement monitoring and will be updated twice
a year and whenever necessary.
Procurement methods (TkbIe A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                           6.49            9.01          1.21         0.00        16.71
(5.19)         (7.20)        (0.97)       (0.00)      (13.36)
2. Goods                            0.47           0.00          0.28         0.00        0.75
(0.47)         (0.00)        (0.28)       (0.00)      (0.75)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          3.39         0.00        3.39
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.89)       (0.00)      (2.89)
0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            6.96            9.01         4.88         0.00        20.85
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ _(5.66)            (7.20)        (4.14)       (0.00)     (17.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit All costs include contingencies.
1 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
govermnent units.
-43 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. firms             2.73)   0.00    0.00    0.06    0.30    0.00    0.0      39
(2.32)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (.05)   (0.26)  (0.00)  (00)     2.3
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.0     0.30
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.26)  (0.00)  (0.26)
Total  2.73    0.00    0.00   0.06     0.30   0.30    0.00     3.39
(2.32)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.05)  (0.26)  (0.26)  (0.00)  (2.89)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 44 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                       >1,000                   ICB                     6.96
<1,000 .NCB                                      9.01
<100                    MW                      0.40
prior review threshold: 100
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                     0.47
<100                  Other (IS)                 all
prior review threshold: I100
3. Services                  firms >100                QCBS                     2.73
firms <100           Other (CQ, LCS)
prior review threshold: 100
Individuals prior review        IC
threshold: 50
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$19.57 million or
93.9% of the
total cost of the Project
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 45 -



Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
A capacity assessment of the Borrower was conducted during project preparation. The Borrower has previous
experience with Bank procurement however, the practice so far has not been always satisfactory and the
procurement environment is risky. Therefore, an action plan was prepared to enable the Borrower to conduct
procurement under the project in accordance with Bank procurement procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment    Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first
Reportr was prepared.             year ready by negotiations :Consultants hired under the Emergency
Road Repair Project are preparing the bidding documents for the
first year.
TRANING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date   Date ofpublication  Indicate if there is  Domestic   Domestic Preference for
of Project       of General         procurement subject to  Preference  Works, if applicable:
Launch           Procurement         mandatory SPN in    for Goods:
Workshop:       May 31, 2002        Development                      N/A
Oct. 31, 2002                      Business:            Yes
No. However, it is
recommended
that ICB civil
works contracts
be advertised on
line.
Retroactive Financing: No                                 Advance Procurement:
Explain:                                                  No.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Procurement information will be collected and recorded by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank as part of
semi-annual progress reports prepared by the PIU. This information will include (ii) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of
procurement; (d) actual data for contracts already procured, indicating the contracts subject to prior and post
review.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in
the Project: Name: Irna Luca Extension:87092
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The Field Office will perform the service
function.
-46 -



Procurement Action Plan-summary
As part of the pre-appraisal mission an assessment of the capacity of the General Road
Directorate-GRD (the Agency) to implement procurement was carried out. The Agency has
experience with Bank procuremaent under the Emergency Road Repair and National Roads
projects. In order to address some of the weaknesses identified and develop the capacity of the
Agency to conduct procurement according to World Bank procedures, the following Action Plan
is recommended:
ACTION                                               DUE DATE
The Agency will formulate operational procedures related to  By April 30, 2002
procurement (participants, roles, signatory powers)- to be
included in the PIP. Requirements of ethical behavior by the
procurement staff to be included.
The PIU staff in charge of procurement shall receive Bank  By June 30, 2002
procurement training.
An asset register will be maintained through the project  Throughout the project
implementation for all goods and works financed thorough the  implementation period.
Bank fuids.
Technical assistance in procurement, project supervision and  By April 2003
contract management during project implementation will be
provided by international consultants with experience in
World Bank procurement procedures and practices.
The latest version of the IDA standard/sample bidding  Latest version to be
documents shall be used:                              downloaded from the web. The
web address is:
htto://www.worldbank.ora/ht
ml/oor/procure/bdocoaae.ht
ml
For eligibility check:
http://www.worldbank.org/ht
Recommended sample documents to be provided by the Bank  ml/picIPROCURE.html
for NCB works, Intemational and National Shopping, selection
based on Consultant Qualifications and Individual Consultants.  Electronic copies to be
provided during appraisal.
In NCB, Bank procedures will apply.                   Whenever NCB applies.
GPN to be published.                                  By May 31, 2002
IDA and GRD/MOT to organize a project-launch workshop.  By October 31, 2002
IDA assistance and advice in procurement.             During project preparation and
implementation
-47 -



Ii      __ |         __ g g XX 
I      _ _ Ci_E 
llr~  _    __  l __        l I 
__  I  I  I  I B   I
' | I  i  X  -f  r.iiiigllg .-  c  in' -S -b l - 1 -



DEM ilN  rPENUMRO ESTAM~ PROCURE II           RNALA       IO
GWAcBm1. a
iaiA C&2=  Fes     ON     I       150     ICB     ?A  SqP4G3   olO3   Od3    DswO   .wO4    W44     D8DO5
CWfClW2Ftoa ND. 0.
No. 70 Sdli Cmk - BMaa,  ON  1    1.56      CB        Ssp(O    oam     OO3   DeD03   Jar,04  M~or4  DeD05
CWff43raRoadNi23
Seci Kdmq4(tuT Peb  ON    1       0.07     N~OS   N    Ssp83   oc4D    0d03   DOD3   J       N ar0  DeD05
h   8 ldd rio
NW irrace wcitr Phe d  ON  3      0.86      m     h   SepO3    Oda0    OaO3   Dec0  Jgw4    MNr04   Dec83
Infor3years)           ___
hdirar=rdrtR       ON     1       0.05     NWV        SeO3     0&,03   Oa03   Dec83  Jw.04  hW*4    Dec83
aiqprgtoird gtidebo.
km   tr3  yeas)                         _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _         _ _ _         _ _ _
PAni  ds &Lb.Td                483
AcuerIisb elck ce4~ ON    I       02        C      ASW8       0Od03    od83   Dec83  JmO4   Mvr-0   Az,O4
Pebk aweftd*urlodha       6       2.0                 Sq03     oc83    OdO3   Dec83  .1814X  Mwr.04  I
Pft"MslricedebU5
sedam d uW mak (CrU  ON   5       022       W      ~    (X       r8 MNom oc0  Dc8    .      NW-F43  Dc8
VdabotA656n
Raul Poub Sub Tcd        2I
Wpmmpsc ierBvutaiiu  G    1       025      lcs    N      A1 .kn8  Akh8  kS83  Sep2W  O8     NovW    IVw-04
Eq*nwitbrRDWl&eveyf3r  G  1       0.12      Cs    NA  .Ja-03   Feb83   Feb43 MNr03   NWMD   .k-03   0d03
Vehkies        G     1       0.10      CB    6.I imt      Feb83   Fob03 Mjr-0   Mv,     An3    OcW3
1. C. ThL*ig  al TedvieIiAs eitm                     _ _ _ _  __ _ _ __               __ _  _ _
SqftwbrSmwGOA6sT   CS     2       0.10       o         is83    jar03   Fb4D3  Feb4D3  F~O4  NW04    NbW04
Radmxkigcdto Naft
DWSaN Lo d         TA     I        LI 0.15me, Nme8             .anO3  .Azj0   A*83   Sep.0  O~      Oa04
rlvewnai                   __                                                                 _
DsiMarnadus&rdas
bgab . "           TA     1       0.15      cs         Feb43   M~ar33  NMS83  Apr03  NWy8   .kzf83   kn04)
T______________    CS     1       0.10      co)   NA  Jm83     Jan.03  Feb83   NA    Fb4fl  M/a83   Mw-03
TedvwA*tErjA   iDmy  CS   1       1.0     cce     NA  ApW      MW03   MW,O   hzu83  .bO    'Ago8    AG-03
uift dTA9L&b.Tot  -    *i1             _ __ _       _ _  _ __  _ _                                _ _ _
-49 -



1           2 C  3    41     5                   IL~.4  u.4  e0 ET ATE BA ES W Mr4  a
CM Wail.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO*         P"Bc,
Naioa Road
Routire Maebtrauandoe 
and 75 thatmo^ _d Pat  3 6  036  NW  NA  A&q04 |  Sep04  Sep406  Od44  Nov.04  Deo44  DeD06
203Mards0320 
RLwd Roads 91bTdsl  5e 
.~~~~~~~~~~~l CSS          2._7,
Roads tn f 1 sN  CW  2  | 010  _f Mo904       Aqg - 04  4 Ua144 No D4 o  0l44 Od4
moRaed S   and RiTojr!   0750             C
1. (C  T0.35TKhrdca A  e  T  C   0.
ETnhreh do   g enrat lly dCi 1  0fercour and pe  C  A0 11.04I4   I Feeie of MPro 4 cu n 4t
AoFwtMackrdots |
8M |n1bu2,1  _2  | 2   |  a220  | N8-  NA|  Mar>O  A| , Aff -  M|y ff|  6| 4s   I D 6 |Odll46
Dcument ation"chrde andcontacttheRegion  n    e  r gui
Naill Ror  &il>Tiobl  Cs  1  021  co 1NA  JW0  Jan-04 04 NA    b030- 1  -ar04
Trondt RoT Sub-Total  1_-0m  0.1
Y~ ~~~~~~~~dSo sc W 9 C G 4
Taand E6                 C75           Tdi CS
N,a C Rous SuTta  U409M  022             lIC   03
PeT i hreshld pmenerally dife by countr  Mnd  NAjet Consul SOD 104 "Revie ofW NrocurDement
reDve ouetain and Rouc h  egoa rcreetAvsr o udne
M*ftww ckft 2W4-2005 ~ ~ ~   50 



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Works                                  13.36                        80
2. Goods                                  0.75                         100
3. Services                               2.89                         85
Total Project Costs                       17.00
Total                                     17.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Credit proceeds would be disbursed against certified statement of expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) civil
works contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) goods costing less than US$100,000; (c)
Consulting firms contracts costing less than US$100,000; (d) individual consultants contracts and training
for less than US$50,000. All other contracts would be fully documented. Supporting documentation for
SOE would be retained by the PIU and made available to the World Bank staff during supervision missions
and to external auditors or as requested.
Special account:
In order to facilitate disbursement of the IDA Credit, the Borrower should agree to open and maintain a
Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The PIU will
operate the SA in US dollars. The Authorized Allocation deposit in the SA would be US$1 million,
representing the estimated average expenditures for a quarter for the items financed by IDA. At the start of
the project, the SA deposit will be limited to US$0.5 million and the remaining portion of the authorized
allocation could be requested only after the cumulative disbursement reach a level of SDR 2,500,000. The
applications for the replenishment of SA would be submitted by the PIU on a monthly basis or when 20%
of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The SA and Project Account would be
audited and the audit certificate would be furnished within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Manaaement
A financial management assessment has been carried out to determine whether the arrangements established
by the PIU are acceptable to the Bank.
In our opinion, the financial management arrangements currently in place are acceptable and capable of
recording all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) beside the required information for the Albanian Government. The system
therefore satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. As a standard requirement, the
PIU's financial management system will also be subject to an external audit that will be carried out by
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
-51 -



The conclusions of the financial management assessment can be summarized as follows:
1. Implementing Entity           Satisfactory  The  PIU    has  already  implemented  other
Bank-financed projects and is farniliar with
overall Bank requirements
2. Funds Flow                    Satisfactory  There will be only two sources of financing, IDA
and Borrower, and flow of funds would be
relatively straightforward
3. Staffing                       Satisfactory  Accounting and disbursement arrangements will
be handled by one staff that is familiar with the
Bank's financial management requirements
4. Accounting Policies and        Satisfactory  Procedures are in place. An Accounting Manual,
Procedures                                     describing the financial management policies and
procedures for the project, have been prepared
5. Internal Audit                    N/A      Considering the limited size of the project and of
the PIU, an internal audit function has not been
included into the design of the financial
management arrangements
6. External Audit                 Satisfactory  The project will be audited by auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The auditors will be appointed by the
MoF
7. Reporting and Monitoring       Satisfactory  The PIU will report on the basis of Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) which format has
been agreed with the Bank
8. Information Systems            Satisfactory  The accounting system is based on an software
that is able to produce all the reports required by
the Bank. The system is also used by the PIU for
the Emergency Road Repair Project, as a separate
partition
9. Disbursement                   Satisfactory  An assessment of the disbursement capacity has
been carried out. The disbursement arrangements
and capacity is satisfactory
10. Risk Management              Satisfactory  The PIU's financial management capacity and
readiness to implement the project is satisfactory.
Risk management would be contained by "ring
fencing" the project.
-52 -



Country financial management issues: A draft report on Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) for Albania has been prepared on April 2002 and the following issues, that could affect the project
financial accountability, have been identified:
Public financial accountability:
(i)    weak capacity in several institutions
(ii)   weak internal controls including inadequate cash management and weak internal audit function
(iii)  absence of a solid legal basis for internal audit in the public sector.
Private sector accounting and auditing:
(i)    need to differentiate between banks, insurance companies, listed companies, non-listed companies
and other entities for determining applicable accounting standards
(ii)   weak audit capacity and lack of experience in implementing International Standards on Auditing.
Further to these issues, the review by the Bank of the project's audit reports indicates that in Albania there
is not enough adequate understanding of the Bank's financial management policies and procedures on the
part of the auditors. Since this affects negatively the country auditing capacity and the overall financial risk
in the Bank-financed operations, the Bank would soon conduct a formal review of the capacity of the audit
firms that audit Bank-financed operations in Albania in order to establish a list of acceptable auditors.
In Albania, the fiduciary risks in Bank-financed project are also contained by requiring the establishment of
implementing entities separate by the respective line Ministries. This allows a higher degree of transparency
in the financial management and procurement arrangements.
Implementing entity and staffing: The project will be implemented by a PIU that is currently
implementing other two Bank-financed projects within the GRD. The PIU staffing for this new project
would consist of about six persons, including a specialist in charge of the accounting and the disbursement
matters. Considering the limited size of the project and that the National Roads Project will be closing on
30 June 2002, staffing is adequate and financial management capacity will not be overstressed.
The accounting/ disbursement specialist have been hired by the PIU less than a year ago after another
Bank-financed project, within the GRD, was closed. Thanks to the experience gained in different PIUs
within the same transport sector the accountant has had a substantial exposure, including training, to the
Bank's financial management requirements. Due to this experience, the accountant proved good initiative
and overall understanding of Bank requirements in the establishment of the financial management
arrangements for the project (customization of the accounting system, drafting of the FMRs and drafting of
the Accounting Manual).
Accounting arrangements: Although the PIU is within the GRD, all financial management arrangements
will be handled autonomously by the PIU.
At the time of the assessment, the financial management arrangements were already in place. The
accounting system is based on the same software in use for the Emergency Road Repair Project. The
system has been customized by the accountant with the assistance of a consulting firm. An initial Chart of
Accounts have been established to reflect the project components and categories of expenditures described
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Although some accounts would be added, if deemed necessary,
during project implementation, the core accounts have been already defined.
The format of the reports have been agreed with the Bank and the software have been already customized
to produce automatically the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Although the package is already in
use, the new arrangements have been specifically tested for the project. The customization of the software
has been relatively easy, due to the fact that the system was already in place for the Emergency Roads
Repair project and the accountant is familiar in its use.
- 53 -



The method of accounting that will be adopted by the project is cash basis. An Accounting Manual
describing the overall accounting, disbursement, reporting, budgeting, controls and auditing procedures
have been prepared by the accountant with the assistance of the consultants. For each project (Emergency
Roads Repair and Road Maintenance Projects) the PIU have now specific Accounting Manuals. The one
for the new project is substantially an improvement of the Emergency Roads Repair Project.
Information system: The accounting system is based on a software (Alpha-FMR) that have been developed
by a local software house (IMB). Although the package have been adopted successfully by several other
Bank-financed projects, the system established for this specific project have been further tested in order to
verify that the data posted in the accounting journal correctly supports the preparation of the reports. The
package is able to produce automatically the templates of the reports agreed with the Bank (FMRs). The
package has all the most common features of similar accounting systems including: (i) ability to account
under different bases of accounting (cash and accrual), (ii) ability to track and report on multiple projects,
(iii) ability to track and report on flexible reporting cycles (e.g. month, quarter, etc.), (iv) ability to generate
different types of reports, including FMRs, with a clear audit trail and (v) capacity to track actual , budget,
forecast and life of project data.
Reporting and monitoring: The Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) that the PIU has to prepare, and
have been agreed between the Bank and the PIU, are the following:
Financial Reports
I.     Project Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
2.     Uses of Funds by Project Activity Statement
3.     Special Account Statement
4.     Project Account Statement
Project Progress Report
5.     Output Monitoring Report
Procurement Reports
6.     Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
7.     Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultant's Services)
8.     Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
9.     Contract Expenditure Report (Consultant's Services)
These reports would be prepared on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank within 30 days from the
end of the quarter. The accounting system is comprehensive and includes also the data needed for the
reporting to the Ministry of Finance. Since these reports are prepared on templates provided by the MoF,
the accountant will fill them in manually.
Disbursement arrangements andflow offunds: Considering that the PIU is also implementing two other
Bank-financed projects, a review of the disbursement arrangements of the Emergency Road Repair Project
was conducted, with the cooperation of the Bank's Disbursement Assistant, in order to assess the PIU
system.  Disbursement capacity is fully satisfactory and the accountant/ disbursement specialist's
familiarity with the Bank requirements provide adequate assurance that these arrangements can be properly
handled. All disbursement documentation has been properly filed by the PIU and all Withdrawal
Applications reviewed are consistent with project documentation. Disbursement will follow the traditional
transaction-based method (e.g. reimbursements with full documentation, SoEs, direct payments and special
commitments).
The Special Account will be opened in the Central Bank and funds will be transferred to a Project Account
(USD) in a commercial bank. An account in Lek will also be opened in a commercial bank to which funds
- 54 -



from the Project Account in USD will be transferred. This account will be needed for payments in local
currency.
Audits: as for all non-revenue eaming projects financed by the Bank in Albania, the auditors will be
appointed by the Ministry of Finance under a general agreement. For the FY02 audit, the auditor should be
appointed, at the latest, in early 2003. The audit fees will be covered by the Albanian Government,
therefore this activity is not included in the project's cost estimations. Despite that the appointment of the
auditors is handled by the MoF, the final responsibility for ensuring that the project financial statements are
audited, and that the audit report and management letter are submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year, remains with the PIU. The audit TORs will be cleared by the Bank and the
auditors appointed would be acceptable to the Bank.
Risk Analysis: the following table summarizes the risk assessment:
SMNComments
Inherent Risk
1.  Country Financial         S        A draft CFAA for Albania have been prepared and have
Management Risk                        identified several issues in the public financial accountability
and in the private sector accounting and auditing that need
improvements.
Recommendation: in order to contain the fiduciary risk, the
"ring fencing" arrangements in Bank-financed operations in
Albania should be maintained
2.   Project Financial        M        The PIU's accountant is familiar with the Bank financial
Management Risk                        management requirements. The arrangements established for
the project are satisfactory and are able to record all
transactions and provide reliable reports
3.   Perceived                H        In Albania, perceived corruption is high.
Corruption                             Recommendation: in order to provide the appropriate
fiduciary safeguards, the "ring fencing" of the project, with
effective financial management and procurement monitoring,
would contain the risk
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity        M        The  PIU  has adequate experience in implementing
Bank-financed projects
2. Funds Flow                 M        The flow of funds arrangements is quite simple and the PIU
has adequate disbursement experience and capacity
3. Staffing                   M        An experienced staff will be handling all financial
management arrangements, including accounting and
disbursement matters
4. Accounting Policies        M        Overall, adequate financial management policies and
and Procedures                         procedures (described in the Accounting Manual) are in place
5. Internal Audit             M        Due to the limited size, the project does not require an
internal audit function
6. External Audit             M        External audit will be carried out by an auditor acceptable to
the Bank. The auditor will be appointed by the MoF
-55 -



o. Infrmation Systems        m    V   The project hami place an adequate accounting software
H - High      S - Substantial     M - Moderate         N - Negligible or Low
Proposed Acdon Plan: the project financial management arrangements are in place and satisfies the
Bank's minimum requirements. However, due to the fact that at the time of the financial management
assessment the budgeting have not been finalized, because the project documents were still to be finalized,
the following actions will have to be completed:
1. preare the budget for FY02 (from the date of effectiveness)  30 September, 2002
2. prepare the budget for FY03                            15 December 2002
Supervision Plan: the financial management supervisions will be carried out regularly by the project's
Financial Management Specialist (FMS), at least once a year. The FMS will also: (i) review the FMIRs as
soon as these reports are submitted to the Bank (on a quarterly basis); and (ii) review the Audit Report (and
Management Letter), and follow up issues during project supervision. The first Audit Report is due by
June, 2003.
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      20
First Bank mission (identification)             10/30/2000                   10/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     04/15/2002                   04/15/2002
Negotiations                                    05/01/2002                   05/01/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/30/2002
Prepared by:
Project Team
Preparation assistance:
Consultant Trust Funds from Canada and Netherlands
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Cesar Queiroz                     Co-Team Leader
Olivier Le Ber                    Co-Team Leader
Artan Guxho                       Project Officer, Transport
Irina Luca                        Senior Procurement Specialist
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Senior Financial Management Specialist
Neville Weeks                     Consultant, Traffic Safety
Nirinala Saraswat                 Consultant, Environmental Issues
Peter Whitford                    Consultant, Environmental Issues
William Denning                   Consultant, Transport Economist
Jacques Bure                      Consultant, Highway Engineering
Radhika Srinivasan                Consultant, Social Issues
Jesus Renzoli                     Procurement Specialist
Anil Bhandari, Peer Reviewer      Highways Adviser
Anders Bonde, Reviewer            Consultant, Quality at Entry
Charles Chandler, Reviewer        Contractor, Quality at Entry
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
U
AlbaniaRMPpip.pd
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires:
Identification Mission, July 2001 - Pre-Appraisal Mission, December 2001 - Appraisal Mission, April
2002
ALBaidememoireRMPJuly2001  ALBaidememolreDecember2001        AideM_1 of3.pdt
AideM_2of3.pdl AideM_3of3.pd1
C. Other
Country Report Albania - Road Transport Charges, Netherlands Economic Institute (NEI), Transport
Phare, 1999
CREP_ALB.doc   ALB_DAT.XLS
Republic of Albania, Ministry of Finance, Medium-Term Expenditure Framework, 2001-2003, Tirana,
December 2000
ALBMediumTermExpenditureFramewoi
Transport Sector Coordination Meeting European Commission/World Bank, Tirana, November 6, 2000
Minutes of Transport Sector Donors' Coordination Meeting, February 15-16-2001
TranspDonCoordMtg.p,
Balkans Regional Infrastructure Program for Water and Transport - Technical Assistance Projects
Summary (Contract No. PCE-1-00-98-00013) in cooperation with Institute for Public Private Partnerships,
Louis Berger International, Transportation and Economic Research Associates, Inc., and Urban Institute
(BoozAllen & Hamilton)
Balkans Regional Infrastructure Program - Assessment of the General Roads Directorate and Suggested
Improvements (Draft), Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication (GRD), Tirana, Albania, September
2001
-58 -



Republic of Albania, Council of Ministers, Order No. 13, dated January 15, 2002 on The Establishment of
the Inter Ministerial Committee of Road Safety.
Republic of Albania, Ministry of Transport (GRD) Preparation of Road Maintenance Project,
Environmental Management Plan, Louis Beer Group Inc., February 2002
EMP February 2002 Revised April 200,
Road Maintenance Strategy, MOF and MOT, November 1, 1999 and MoTC and MLGD, May 13, 2002
MOT.pdf                    confirmation of Road Maintenance Strateg
Consultants Inception Report, Louis Berger Group, December 21, 2001
Iii              IN
table of content IR.do main doc. iR.doc
Decision of Council of Ministers on Procedures of Expropriation
Decision of CM on the procedures of expropriati
Capacity Assessment of the PIU to Conduct Procurement
Executive Summary.dc Appendix 1.htrr ATT.2.doc Action Plan.doc List of the persons met.di
Estimation of budget increase needed to reduce maintenance backlog.
Backlog Maintenance Estimate02
GOA Road Safety Initiatives
GOA Road Safety Initiatives.c
Action Plan for Road Safety prepared by the Min. of Transport and Telecommunication, April 8, 2002.
MOTT_Action Plan-Road safety_2002-04-1
Memoradum of Understanding (MOU) between Min. of Transport and Telecommunication and Min. of
Local Govemment and Decentralization setting out their roles and responsibilities with regard to managing
the project.
Memoradum of Understanding (MOU) between Min. of Transport and Telecommunication and the City of
-59 -



Tirana setting out their roles and responsibilities with regard to managing the project.
MOU_MOTT-Tirana_2002-04-29.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - BACKGROUND MATERIALS
HDM model, details of model inputs. Rural roads selection process and results.
HDM4inputOl.doc rural_roads_1 st_ranking 1700km_2002-I rural_roads_2nd rankinq 1340km_2002-4
*Including electronic files
-60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA Road Maintenance Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Odginal Amount In USS Millions                        disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA                      Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P069479      2002 FISHERY DEVT                                 0 00     5 60                        0 00      5 51     0.00     0.00
P070078      2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                00       8.10                        000       6 70     260      000
Po55383      2001 SOC SERV DEVT                                0 00    10 00                        0.00      9.55    .0.25     0.00
P054736      2001 AG SERVICES                                  0.00     9.90                        0 00      9.26     0.09     0.00
P066491      2000 WSURGREHAB                                   000     1000                         000       7.38     4.22     0.00
P057182      2000 LEGIJUDREF                                   0.00     900                         0.00      7.60     376      0.00
POSS63      2000 EMGROADREPAIR                                000     13.65                        000       665      513      345
P069079      2000 FIN SEC IBTA                                 0 00     6 so                        0.00      4.17     1 48     0 00
P069120      2000 EDUCREF                                      0.00    12.00                        000      1032     -011      0.00
P069939      2000 PUS ADM REF                                  0.00     8 so                       o00        7.46     2 40     0.00
P051309      1999 cOMMuNrTYWORKS                               0.00     9.00                        000       041     -5.27     000
P051310      1999 MICROCREDIT                                  0.00    12 00                        0.00      5.00    -0 74     0 00
P043178      1999 IRRJG&DRAINII                                0.00    24.00                        000       8.64    -1.28     0.00
P045312      1998 HEALTHRECOVERY                               0.00    1700                         000      12.00    1315      000
P051602      1998 PRIV IND REC                                 0.00    10.25                        0.00      5.32     586      0.00
P054384      1998 RCVRY PROG TA                                0 00     50 0                        0.00      0.46     OA8      0.54
P040975      1998 LAND DEVT                                    0 00    10 00                        0.00      6 51     5.82     0.00
P040818       1998 DURRESPORT                                  0.00    16.99                        000       838      809      070
P008271      1996 FORESTRY                                     0 00     8.00                        0 00      1.95     2.67    .0.11
P034491      1996 POWERTRNSM&DIST                              0.00    2950                         449      11.30    1996      0.00
P038060      1996 NATL ROADS                                   0.00    25.00                        000       0.69     233      0.00
Total:      000     259.99                        4.49     13526     70.38     4.59
ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                           ,        IFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998                   AAP                                  0.00    28.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.15      0.00      0.00
2000                   NCBank                               0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      2.00       0.00     0.00
1999                   SEF Eurotech                         0.90     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.90      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999                   SEF FEFAD Bank                       0.00     0.98      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.98      0.00      0.00
2001                   Seainent                            15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:             15.90     31.48      0.00       0.00      0.90    12.13       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic
1998                  Patos Mannza                           30.00        0.00        0.00       50.00
2001                   Patos Marinza In                       10.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:              40.00        0.00        0.00      50.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
- Europe S&  Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central   middle-
AlDania      Asib  Income       Development diamond'
20
Population, mid-year (millions)                       3.4       475     2,046                Life expectancy
GNt per capita (Atlas meohod, USSJ                  t,230     2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bilUtonsa                      4:2       956     2,327
Average annual growth. 1995-01
Population (ff                                        0.9       0.1       1.0
Labor forcme (%                                       1.3,      0.6       1.3    GNI                             Gross
per                  -         primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year availmble, 1995-01)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below naVtonal povony line)
Urban Population 1% ot total PoPulaton)               40         67       42
Life expectancv at birth (years)                      74         69       69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)              20         21       32
Child mainutrition (% of children under C)              8         ..      II          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (16 of populatUon)  ..        90       80
liiteracy (% ofpopulaton age 16+)                      15         3       15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  110      100      114              Albanla
Male                                               109        101      116         ----Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                             110        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19t1     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                             ..     1.1       3.8      4.1
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               35.1      7.3      18.6      19.4
Exports of aoods and saervicesGDP           230       7.2      18.9     20.4Trad
Gross domestic seavins/GDP                  36.6    -13.0      -2.9      -3.7
Gross national savinPs/G0P                     ..   -14.2      11.6      13.1
Current account balancelGDP                    ..   -21.6      -7.2      -6.3     Domestic       ' 
Interest payments/GDP                          .      0.2       0.2      0.3     savingsvstment
Total debUGDP                                 ..     44.9      20.9      23.0    savng
Total debt service/exPort                     ..      3.9       2.1       2.7
Present value of debUGDP                      ..       ..      12.9
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      38.5
Indebtedness
1981-91  199S141     2000      2001   2001405
(averge annual arowth)
GOP                                -0.5      5.4      7.8       6.5      6.7               Albania
GDP.- aer capita                   -2.4      4.6      6.9       5.6      6.3,        -- -- - Lower-middle-lncome group
Exports of goods and services               11.7      5.8      24.8      5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (Xl
(S6 of GDP)                                                                      20
Aariculture                                 32.4     39.3      51.0      49.1
Industry                                    43.0     42.7      26.3     27.3     1s
Manufacturing                                ..    36.5      11.6      11.6
Services                                    24.6     18.0      22.7      23.6
Private consumptlon                         54.9     90.9      92 0      90.9   .10
General govemment consumption                8.5     22.1      10 9      12.9                   GDI     - CGDP
Imports of goods and services               21.5     27.6      40 4     43.5
1981-91  1091-01      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(aweraeg annual growth)
Agriculture                                  1.0      6.1       4.0       1.4    eo -
Industry                                    -0.5      5.0      11.4      10.7    40
Manufacturina                               ..     -0.8       5.0       6.5    20
Services                                    -3.0      5.1      13.3      13.6     o                        s     i
Private consumption                           ..      5.4       2.8      6 7     -20
General government consumption                ..      3.1       7.4      12.0   .40
Gross domesUc Investment                    -1.0     20.1      17.9      11.1                 Exports    :Imports
Imports of goods and services                 ..     11.0       6.5      23.5
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour kev Indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared wlth Its Income-group averaae. If data are missing. the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 62 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflatn
Domestic pmces
(% change)                                                                       40 .
Consumer prices                               ..    49.4       0.1       3.1     30-
Impliclt GDP deflator                       -2.2    34.5       -1.2      2.8     20 - -
Government finance                                                               10
(% of GDP, Includes currnt grants)
Current revenue                               ..    34.3       22.4     23.0    .10     96    97   9s     99    00   01
Current budget balance                        ..   -21.7       -2.4     -1.2            -    GDP deflator  C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..   -27.8       -9 1     -8.5
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         419      101       256      305     1,60
Commodity 1                                  ..      ..        28        ..     250
Commodity 2                                  ..      ..        14 
Manufactures                                ..       ..       218
Total Imports (cli)                         384      409      1,070    1,332      '60
Food                                        ..       ..       217       ..      soo
Fuel and energy                             ..       ..        71        ..     2s0
Capital goods                                ..      ..       230        ..      o                         J
Export pdca index (1995--100)                                  ~~~~~~~99  96  97  as  99  00  01
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..       ..s                                                    oo
Import prIce index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        ..        ..               * Exports     * Impotsa
Terms of trade (1995-100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               431       82       705      840       o
Importsofgoodsand services                  403      314      1,520    1.791
Resource balance                             28     -232      -815     -951
Netincome                                    11      -22       106      148        - 
Net current transfers                         ..       8       439      543
Current account balance                      45     -246      -270     -260      o *.
Financdng items (net)                       -19       24       381      391
Changes in net reserves                      -26     221      -111     -131      16
Mremo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..      ..       638      767
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)              ..    14.4      143.7    143.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..     512       784      945
IBRD                                        ..       0         0        0                    G 37
IDA                                         ..       0       346         ..             F:37
Total debt service                            ..       4        27       41
IBRD                                                 0         0         0
IDA                                                  0         2         3        E2t8                       8.346
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..     320       161
Offical creditors                           ..      20        93
Private credtors                            ..      28        -1
Foreign direct Investment                   .        0       143         .D
Portfolioequlty                             *-       0         0                        D      C 8
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       0        54        20     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       0        64        34     B - IDA  D - 09er multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                        ..       0         0        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..       0        64       34
Interest payments                           ..       0         2        3
Net transfers                               ..       0        62       31
Development Economics                                                                                            5/14/02
-63 -



Additional Annex 11: Road Sector - Current Situation
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
The Road Act of the Republic of Albania was gazetted as law No. 8378 on July 22, 1998. It defines the
class of roads as follows:
Main National Roads are roads which
- link the Prefectures or District centers with each other;
-  link the Main National Roads network with sea ports, intemational airports or major centers of
economic activity;
- link the Main National Roads network with that of neighboring countries; or
-  represent a special interest for the national economy.
*      Rural (or District) Roads are roads which:
-  link the District centers with administrative sub-centers within the district (municipalities) or
centers of economic activity at the district level;
-  link the administrative sub-centers or centers of economic activity at the district level with each
other;
- link the District center, the administrative sub-centers and the centers of economic activity at the
district level with the Main National Road network.
*      Urban Roads are roads located within the territory of a municipality and which are not either
Main National Roads or Rural Roads.
The total length of the road network is about 16,000 km. Table 1 provides a breakdown of the road
network.
Table 1: Length of Different Road Types in Kilometers 2001
Type of Road                          Length    Institution Responsible
National Road Network                 3,221      MOTT (GRD)
Urban Roads                           1,000      Municipalities
Rural Roads                           4,126      MLGD (D)
Other (agricultural, mining, forest)  7,653      Relevant Entities
Total                                 16,000
Only 8 km of the main national road network (between Tirana and Durres) can be called "motorway", with
standards not in accordance with those of European motorways. The condition of the roads is in geneal
poor for all categories of roads. Of the national road network, about 10% is in good condition, 22% in fair
condition, and 68% in poor condition. A substantial backlog in periodic maintenance exists. The
rehabilitation of the two main corridors (North-South and East-West) has started back in 1994 and is still
in .process. For the next 5 years there are no plans for new construction of motorways. Only reconstruction
and rehabilitation of existing roads and completion of some new two-lane roads between major
municipalities are planned. The Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization oversees the
municipalities responsible for about 1,000 km of urban streets, and local government organizations
responsible for the 4,126 km of rural roads recently separated from GRD.
The road subsector has become an increasingly important part of Albania's transport system in the last
decade, with rapid growth of vehicle traffic at the expense of other transport modes (see Table 2).
-64 -



Table 2: Total Number of Vehicles Over the Last Six Years
Type of Vehicle                1996      199       199       1999       200       2001
Passenger car               67,278    76,822    90,766     92,038   114,301   133,288
Buses & minibuses            7,612     8,747     9,227     12,223    16,687    20,706
Trucks                      27,77     30,10     34,378     34,841    43,015    48,096
Road tractors                2,83N     3,151     2,731      1,858     2,273     2,715
Trailers                     3,49      3,74,     3,99C      4,206     5,119     6,297
Other (motorcycles)          5,541     3,645     4,19C      3,169     3,766     3,403
Total                       114,540   126,277   145,38A    148,335   185,161   214,505
Albania has been the recipient of substantial amnounts of foreign assistance directed to the improvement of
the road network, including four IDA projects. In spite of this, the road network is in very poor condition
(see Table 3) and is verging on being a major constraint to the Govermment's growth strategy as expressed
in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper mentioned above. The Government recognizes this, and
has requested IDA assistance to improve the country's road maintenance capacity. Specifically, in a letter
from the Minister of Transport dated June 22, 2000, the Government confirmed to IDA that it considers the
proposed Road Maintenance Project to be a high priority for the country, and also outlined an overall
strategy for restructuring the management of road maintenance to make it more effective.
Table 3: Condition of Different Types of Roads in Year 2000
Type of Road                    Good (%)      Fair (%)     Poor (%)
National Road Network             10           22            68
Urban Roads                       10           30            60
Rural Roads                       20           25            55
Other (agricultural, mining, forest)  0         0           100
Overall                             8            13           79
The funding of road maintenance and investment activities in Albania takes place according to the
following principles. The National Roads are financed via the state budget and foreign loans. The
Regional Road Directorates prepare requests for annual budgets that are collected and vetted by GRD.
GRD, through the Ministry of Transport, then submits a combined road budget to the Parliament for
approval. After approval of the Government budget, the Ministry of Finance sends funds to GRD and
directly to most RRDs through a District Authority Bank The Rural Roads are financed through the state
budget and local budgets in some cases supplemented by foreign fumding. Only limited central government
resources are being made available for rural roads at present. Urban roads and streets are financed by the
City Councils and the Municipalities through the state budget. The Government budget for the transport
sector is given in Table 4. Table 5 shows the budgets for national and local roads.
-65 -



Table 4: Government Budget for the Transport Sector
Including foreign funded projects (Lek millions, current value)
1997       1998      1999       2000       2001
actual     actual    actual     actual    budget
Total Income (National Budget)                93,518   107,506    120,588    136,462
Total Expenditure                            141,627   165,692    175,844    189,022
Expenditure on Transport - MOT
Domestic funding               2,129     3,636      5,600      5,285     6,455
Extemal funding                M.E51     2.801 |     .62       6.420     6.700
Total                            3,780      6,437     12,262     11,705    13,155
National roads                 1,752     4,804     11,048     10,646     11,907
Civil aviation                 1,242     1,221        49        152        n/a
Other transport                 786        412      1.165       907       1,248
Total                            3,780      6,437     12,262     11,705    13,155
Expenditure on Roads
MOT Expenditure on
National Roads               1,752     4,804     11,048     10,646     11,907
Expenditure on Rural
and on Urban Roads            529      1.014      1.161     1.137       1.150
Total Expenditure on Roads       2,281      5,818     12,209     11,783    13,057
GDP                               341,716    460,631   506,205    539,210    594,346
National expenditure on trasport     1.1%      1.4%       2.4%       2.2%      2.2%
as % of GDP
Total expenditure on roads          0.7%       1.3%       2.4%       2.2%      2.2%
as % of GDP                  _  _   _     _  _  _  _  _   _    _  _  _   _  _  _
Source: MTEF, GRD, IBRD
-66 -



Table 5: Budget of Road Organizations
Including foreign funded projects (Lek millions, current value)
Authority      1996      1997       1998      1999       2000       2001
Authority           actual     actual     actual    actual     actual    budget
National (GRD)
Internal financing      2,267       102      2,061      4,386      4,226     5,937
External financing        147      1.650     2,743      6.662      6.420     5.970
Total GRD                  2,414      1,752     4,804     11,048    10,646     11,907
% of external financing      6%       94%        57%       60%        60%        50%
Local
Urban roads                                    353        840       374        361
(municipality)
Rural roads (MLG)                                         321       763        789
Total Local                 563        529      1,014      1,161      1,137     1,150
Grand Total                2,977     2,281      5,818     12,209    11,783     13,057
Exchange rate             104.32     147.55    150.30     137.41     143.78    143.57
(LekIUS$)
Grand Total in US$          28.5       15.5      38.7       88.9      82.0       91.0
Source: GRD, MLG, IBRD
The country's present tax structure is generally in alignment with European Union requirernents, but still
needs some adjustments (see Country Report Albania-Road Transport Charges, NEI Transport for
PHARE, 1999). What are seriously needed are vastly improved tax collections feeding the general revenues
of the govermment and a mechanism that assures good budgeting of adequate funding for timely
maintenance that is then turned over to the road authorities to maintain the desired performance of the
public network. At this stage the Govermnent is not pursuing the establishment of a Road Fund for
Albania.
Funds to the General Road Directorate come directly from the national budget. Besides this budget funding
the GRD also has funding from foreign loans and aid. The national budget is only a one-year budget,
which seriously hinders multi-annual planning of maintenance and reconstruction works. There is also no
straight relation between budget and costs. GRD has two budgets: Investment and Maintenance. The
investment budget includes all works that need to be tendered: construction, rehabilitation (see first part of
Table 6) and also periodic maintenance. Periodic maintenance which is of very limited scope and scale in
Albania is typically contracted out, whereas the Regional Road Directorates carry out routine maintenance
(see second part of Table 6). As the Regional Road Directorates carry out the routine maintenance works,
the maintenance budget of the GRD is in fact that of the RRD's. A substantial part of the total maintenance
budgets of the RRD's is used for staff salaries, equipment and housing. Since 1999, because of the
transfer of Rural Roads network from MOTT to MLGD, National Roads expenditures no longer include
expenditures related to the Rural Roads. This explains the decrease in GRD routine maintenance figures
from 1998 to 1999.
- 67 -



Table 6: Expenditures of Road Organizations by Type
Including foreign funded projects (Lek millions, current value)
1996       1997      1998       1999      2000       2001
Authority           actual     actual     actual    actual     actual    budget
GRD
Rehabilitation and new
construction
intemal financing         977         na       422       2,740     3,469      4,859
extemal financing         147      1 650      2.743    7.538       6.420      5.970
sub-total                1,124     1,650      3,165     10,278     9,889     10,829
Periodic Maintenance        276         na       360        311        327       750
(contracted out)
Routine Maintenance        1,014        na      1,279       459        430       328
(force account)
Total GRD                  2,414     1,752      4,804     11,048    10,646     11,907
Local                       563        529      1,014      1,161     1,137      1,150
(MLG + Municipal)
Grand Total                2,977     2,281      5,818     12,209    11,783     13,057
Exchange rate             104.32    147.55     150.30     137.41    143.78     143.57
(LeklUS$)__               _ _ _  __ _ _ __                         _ _ _ _
Grand Total in US$          28.5      15.5       38.7       88.9      82.0       91.0
Source: GRD, MLG, IBRD
Traffic safety is a significant social, economic and public health issue in Albania. Table 7 shows that the
annual fatality rate using official statistics has been slowly decreasing over the past six years, possibly due
to improved levels of enforcement and a growing general awareness of safety issues. However, there is
evidence to suggest that the numbers of fatalities in Albania are generally under-reported (relative to
international definitions), yet official statistics indicate that the relatively lower (compared to previous
years) fatality rate in 2000 (i.e. the number of fatalities/10,000 vehicles) was the highest in eastem Europe,
and about ten times the EU average. Comparative international fatality rate statistics for 1996 are shown
in Table 8. These use officially published statistics and, as noted, accident fatality figures for Albania are
believed to be under-reported relative to international definitions of a traffic fatality.
Table 7: Albania Traffic Fatality Rates (Fatalfftes/10,000 Vehicles) over the Last Six Years on all
Roads
199(      199       1998      1999      200(      2001
No. of fatalities                251       26        308       274       280       297
Total vehicles               114,54C   126,271   145,382   148.335   185,161   214,505
Annual fatality rates          22.4!     21.0     21.18      18.48    15.12     13.85
-68-



Table 8: Comparative International Fatality Rates for 1996
Country   _   Annual Fatality Rates 1996     Country       Annual Fatality Rates 1996
Albania                   24.1               Austria                    2.3
Bosnia                    18.6               Canada                     1.8
Bulgaria                   4.1               Denmark                    2.3
Czech Republic             2.9               Greece                     4.0
Croatia                    7.5               Italy                      1.8
Hungary                    4.6               Netherlands                 1.5
Latvia                    11.3               Sweden                     1.3
Macedonia                  5.1               United Kingdom             1.5
Poland                     5.7               USA                        2.0
Romnania                   9.0
Slovakia                   5.0               _       ___      __X_X
Yugoslavia                 6.5
Source: Estimatin2 Global Road Fatalities: 1996. TRL Report 445, 2000. This is the most reoently available
summary with good comparability across countries. For Albania TRL used a 1996 figure for total vehicles of
106,630, together with traffic fatalities of 257, to arrive at a fatality rate of 24.1.
-69 -



Additional Annex 12: Policy Framework for Safeguard Compliance for Minor Adverse
Impacts
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Adverse Condition Scope of Civil  Potential Adverse Recommended     Mitigation
of Road          Works            Social Impact    Mitigation Measure Approach;
Serviceability                                                      Required Actions
Requiring Civil
Works
- Longitudinal   - Cleaning of    Limited or       - Placement of   Public
ditches damaged or drainage structure  constrained access concrete/steel pipes encouragement to
blocked         involving demolition to private property in correspondence  remove
of access to private             of each access road encroachments
property                         in order to assure
continuity to the
road drainage
system
- Retaining walls,  - Reinstatement of             - Provision of   Public information
curbs and gutters  the original situation          altemative solutions campaign at
demolished       due to particular                 assuring road    national and local
engineering                       access to project  level will be
solutions needed in               affected people  included in the TOR
that location                                      of the supervision
consultants to win
public support.
Technical
specificatons
between the
contractor and GOA
will specify
mitigation measure.
No intervention of
public
administration will
be sought in the
event
encroachments are
not voluntarily
removed. Road
section will remain
outside the scope of
the current project.
- Longitudinal   - Clean the filled  Loss of access to  - Additional  Public
drainage occupied  ditch and move the services (including excavation for  encouragement to
by minor/major   water pipe       water, electricity,  subsequent works  remove
water pipes      elsewhere if     etc.) that were  in order to move  encroachments
possible         acquired through  the existing pipe to
misuse of        a new location such
drainage/road    that road
structure for private serviceability and
- 70 -



networks         continued access to
services is restored
- Culverts used as  - Reinstate the                - Leave the      Technical
passage for      original situation by             situation like it is, in specifications
minor/major water removing                         case of small    between the
pipes            impediment                        diameter water pipe contractor and GOA
which in any case  will specify
will not affect the  mitigation measure.
serviceability of the
culvert; if the water
pipe is obstructing
the culvert, build
another culvert
close to this
location in order to
reinstate the
drainage system
Leave the situation Intervention of
like it is. It is  relevant public
- Structures used  - Remove                        assumed that the  authority will not be
for the passage of impediment                      serviceability of the sought to remove
water pipes                                        structure is not  impediment in order
going to be affected to carry out civil
works.
- N/A
- Structures used  - Remove
for the passage  impediment
high/low voltage
power lines
- Kiosks, small  - Remove         Loss of structures  N/A           Public
brick/r.c. buildings  impediment  that were raised on               encouragement to
bstructing                       public land for                   remove
longitudinal drainage             unauthorized                      encroachments.
r invading the road              commercial                        Public information
carriageway                       activities                        campaign at
national and local
level will be included
N/A            in the TOR of the
supervision
consultants.
- Fencing, retaining - Step back                                    Grievance
walls, power poles  impediment                                      Mechanism to be
reducing the road                                                   made available to
carriageway                                                         affected people to
register complaints
regarding mitigation
N/A             measure. Affected
people have option
of denying access to
complete project
works, in which case
project works will be
-71 -



stopped.
Unauthorized road - Minimize or
obstacles reducing  remove impediment                               Technical
road safety (i.e.                                                   specifications
commercial                                                          between the
advertising,                                                        contractor and GOA
unauthorized                                                        will specify
higMow voltage                                                      mitigation measure.
power poles, etc.)                                                  In addition, it will
instruct contractors
at there will be no
forced removal of
kiosks/dwellings/fen
ces or other
unauthorized road
obstacles from
ROW's.
There will be no
expropriations in this
project.
- 72 -



Additional Annex 13: Road Safety Component Detailed Description
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
Background
Investigations of the road safety situation in Albania and integral discussions with representatives from the
responsible govermment agencies and traffic police have determined that there is a need for a comprehensive
road safety program. It is evident that the official traffic accident statistics are under-reporting traffic
fatalities and personal injury accidents, yet the official figures already indicate the highest fatality rates
from traffic accidents of all European countries. This situation is cause for concem by the government,
given that current motorization levels are relatively low but increasing at a rate of over 10% per annum.
Furthermore, the economic costs of traffic accidents to Albania are estimated to be about 2-3% of the
GDP, which excludes the social and humanitarian impact that loss of human life and/or disabilitating
injuries can have on families - particularly is a family income-eamer is involved.
The investigations and discussions during the preparation of the project have clearly shown that there are a
wide-ranging series of technical and institutional issues and activities which will have to be addressed in
Albania so that the present unsatisfactory road safety situation may be brought under control. Forecasts of
rapidly increasing motorization rates in Albania wiU result in a continuation of the rising trends in traffic
fatalities and total accidents, unless road safety issues are addressed.
A focused, comprehensive, well-planned and multi-dimensional road safety program is urgently needed to
address the problems in Albania. The program should involve both public sector and private enterprises
working together towards a common goal, with the ful support of civil society. In order to ensure the road
safety program is effective and sustainable, strong support from political leaders will be essential.
Govemment support and commitment has been demonstrated by the recent (January 15 2002)
establishment of the 'Inter-Ministerial Committee of Road Safety' and of its Secretariat within the Ministry
of Transport and Telecommunication (the 'Directorate of Road Safety and Traffic'). Government's
'Action Plan for Road Safety' is appended in annex 8, together with the Directorate's preliminary 4-year
Plan (2002-2005).
The scale of the problem is demonstrated by a review of official traffic accident statistics for 2001.
Although fatality rates have decreased in 2001 (to about 13 persons/10,000 vehicles), the numbers of
fatalities have increased. (A 'fatality' in Albania is defined as a victim being dead at the accident site,
compared to the international definition of death within 30 days of an accident).
A summary of the main results is as follows:
Most recorded accidents occurred on paved national roads outside of urban areas (83%), and most recorded
accidents occurred during daylight hours (73%), with (22%) occurring during hours of darkness, and the
remainder (5%) occurring during twilight hours. Most recorded accidents occurred on dry road conditions
(90%), and on flat terrain (88%).
Of the 297 recorded traffic fatalitv accidents:
- 44% resulted in the death of pedestrians (37%) and cyclists (7%);
- 8% resulted in the death of motor-cycle riders;
-  22% resulted in the death of drivers (of cars (18%), trucks (3%) and buses (1%)); and
- 73 -



-   26% resulted in the death of passengers in vehicles.
-   54% involved drivers with less than 5 years driving experience; and
-   85% involved drivers with less than 10 years driving experience.
-   21% involved drivers aged 18-24 years;
-   39% involved drivers aged 25-35 years;
-   24% involved drivers aged 36-45 years; and
- 16% involved drivers aged over 45 years.
-   74% were assessed as the driver's fault; of these, records indicated that excess speed was a factor in
42%, and reckless driving (i.e. passing error, driving on the wrong side of the road, general negligence)
was a factor in 37%; and
-   22% were assessed as the pedestrian's fault.
Of the 250 recorded Personal injury accidents:
-   31% involved pedestrians (25%) and bicycles (6%);
-   8% involved motor-cycles;
-   18% involved drivers (of cars (17%) and trucks (1%)); and
-   42% involved passengers in vehicles.
- 50% involved drivers with less than 5 years driving experience; and
- 85% involved drivers with less than 10 years driving experience.
- 20% involved drivers aged 18-24 years;
- 38% involved drivers aged 25-35 years;
- 31 % involved drivers aged 36-45 years; and
- 11% involved drivers aged over 45 years.
- 73% were assessed as the driver's fault, of these, records indicated that excess speed was a factor in
30%, and reckless driving (i.e. passing error, driving on the wrong side of the road, general negligence)
was a factor in 47%; and
- 23% were assessed as the pedestrian's fault.
The accident records do not identify whether the condition of the road (other than whether it was
paved or unpaved, wet or dry), or of traffic control devices were contributingfactors to the accidents.
There is an evident need to expand the data recorded at site in order to determine whether road condition
and/or absence or poor working condition of traffic control measures (signs, markings and signals) were
contributing factors to accidents. The fact that pedestrians are the predominant victims of all traffic
accidents indicates that a safety awareness campaign is needed for pedestrians themselves, and for drivers.
In addition, since excess speed and reckless driving behaviour are identified as significant causal factors in
traffic accidents, this indicates a need for a combined road safety campaign (via all available media) and
strict enforcement targeting speed and reckless driving.
Furthermore, since vehicle passengers are involved in a significant percentage of traffic fatalities and (in
particular) in personal injury accidents, this is clear evidence that seat-belts are not being used. The
wearing of seat-belts should be included as part of an intensive road safety campaign, that should be
strongly supported by targeted police enforcement of seat belt regulations. Although less of an evident
issue at the present time, consideration should also be given to the application of legislation, regulations
and enforcement of crash-helmet requirements for motor-cycle riders.
- 74 -



Comprehensive Road Safety Program
The road safety program for Albania should be based on the 3 Es' of:
*  Education, (for senior officials in relevant govenmment agencies, general public, road users, traffic
police, school children, etc);
*  Engineering, (to introduce safety conscious planning and design for roads and traffic schemes, and for
remedial measures at accident blackspot locations, etc); and
*  Enforcement, (to introduce policies for targeted enforcement aimed at changing unsafe road user
behaviour, etc).
To ensure the program is effective and sustainable on a routine day-to-day basis, all involved agencies
should practice the 3 'Cs' of:
*   Cooperation, (in developing joint road safety priorities and inter-agency working arrangements, etc);
*   Coordination, (in sharing information on traffic accidents, accident blackspots and road safety issues,
etc); and
*   Collaboration, (in developing solutions and plans to address specific road safety issues and
requirements, and in monitoring of their effectiveness following implementation).
The road safety problem is perceived as too large and complex for a single government agency to address.
As has been recognized in many countries, road safety is a social and public health issue and has effects in
a number of sectors. In Albania, these other sectors (e.g. social services, public health, hospitals,
education, local government, etc) are the responsibility of govermment ministries and agencies other than
the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication. Therefore, it will be important that all relevant
agencies practice the 3 'Cs' to consolidate the basic foundation of a road safety program for Albania. In
recognition of the multi-dimensional nature of road safety, the Government of Albania has recently
established the 'Inter-Ministerial Committee for Road Safety' to give leadership and direction to the road
safety program. (The main stakeholders and their priority activities are described later in this Annex).
This Committee provides an essential first step in providing the enabling environment to develop and
implement a comprehensive road safety program for Albania.
The program may be considered to have nine main components with each having several integral elements,
as illustrated below. (This program was first presented during the IDA "Road Safety Study and Program"
and was approved by GOA in 1998). For each component, specific strategy objectives need to be
developed, together with realistic targets/minimum outputs and performance indicators.
Activities for an Integrated Road Safety/Maintenance Project
Within the context of the Road Maintenance Project, support will be given to several key components of the
Comprehensive Road Safety Program for Albania. Working with the 'Inter-ministerial Committee for
Road Safety' (i.e. the National Road Safety Council), the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication
(Directorate for Road Safety and Traffic, and General Directorate of Roads), Ministry of Local
Government and Decentralization, and the Ministry of Public Order (Traffic Police), the major activities
within each component will be as follows:
1. Accident Data System
Hardware, software, technical assistance and training for the traffic police accident unit to establish a data
storage/retrieval and analysis system, and for the MOTT Directorate of Road Safety to facilitate
- 75 -



establishment of a GOA transport and road safety statistics web-site. This will also include assistance to
the traffic police to introduce the accident site report form (as included in the new Albanian Road Code),
and in developing procedures for data dissemination, and in accident investigation.
2. National Road Safety Council
Technical assistance for the effective NRSC for Albania (i.e. the 'Inter-Ministerial Committee for Road
Safety') to assist with the development of a sustainable road safety program for Albania., budget
development and its allocation. Technical assistance and training for its supporting Secretariat in the
MOT' (i.e. the Directorate for Road Safety) to enable the latter to function as coordinator for the
comprehensive Road Safety Program, including development of strategies for cooperation and
collaboration between all key public and private sector stakeholders, with rural community groups and road
safety associations on local safety issues.
3. Infrastructure Improvement
Civil works to improve about 30 identified accident blackspots on the road network as demonstration
projects, including channelization and other physical remedial measures, including the installation of
appropriate traffic control devices.  Materials for vertical and horizontal traffic control devices
(reflectorized traffic signs and thermoplastic paint for road markings) for the demonstration projects.
Technical assistance and training to GRD, MLGD and the traffic police to develop systematic techniques
for blackspot identification, to increase local practitioners' capability to develop remedial measures, to
monitor and evaluate the effects of remedial measures, and to identify agencies' annual budget allocations
for safety engineering improvements. Consulting services will also develop procedures to operationalize
and institutionalize traffic safety audit procedures and other safety conscious planning approaches within
GRD and MLGD, and to maintain traffic control devices on the road network.
Consulting services to include safety engineering on two road and intersection rehabilitation projects for the
Municipality of Tirana.
4. Legislation
Consulting services to review and update the Albanian Road Code and Regulation to strengthen safety
conscious approaches on all roads planning, design, construction and maintenance activities for national
and rural roads, and for urban roads and traffic management schemes.
5. Traffic Police Enforcement
Technical assistance and training to the traffic police within MPO, and to municipal police in Tirana to
establish targeted enforcement strategies and publicity campaigns focused on specific enforcement
priorities, in order to improve road safety and deficient road user behaviour.
6. Education and Publicity
Technical assistance and training for the development of strategies and plans for mass action road safety
campaigns and publicity in support of targeted police enforcement, to increase public awareness of safety
issues, and for campaign monitoring and evaluation. Consulting services to develop road safety education
within the schools system.
7. Driver Training and Testing
Consultant services to review driver training and testing procedures, and quality control of driving schools,
instructors and examiners, including the potential for the introduction of 'graduated' licensing. The
- 76 -



requirements for drivers of public service vehicles will be given particular attention.
8. Vehicle Testing and Inspection
Consultant services to review vehicle testing and inspection procedures, and quality control of testing
stations and inspectors. The requirements for commercial and public service vehicles will be given
particular attention.
9. Emergency Services
Technical assistance and training to strengthen emergency response procedures, including training for first
responders in emergency first aid and improved coordination between police, fire, amnbulance/hospital
emergency services. Provision of first aid kits for emergency responders.
Seminar on Road Safety Awareness
The RMP project will conduct a 2-3 day seminar in Tirana for high level participants, aimed at increasing
road safety awareness and raising the profile of Government's Comprehensive Road Safety Program for
Albania. While providing the opportunity to examine road safety as a global health and social issue, also
profiled will be Albania's road safety performance and comparisons with other countries, and 'lessons
learned' from other national road safety programs. Key Albanian agencies involved in road safety will
outline government policies, strategies and plans to address the problems and concems by means of a
multi-dimensional, coordinated program of physical and other measures. Opportunities will also be
provided for other donors (e.g. EUT), private sector representatives and other participants (e.g. community
groups) to discuss road safety concerns and issues, and to identify potential additions to the road safety
program.
As progress is achieved on the RMP, an additional, high level road safety seminar will be held to
demonstrate the effects of the comprehensive road safety program.
Stakeholders and Priorities
1. Stakeholders
The principal Albanian stakeholders in road safety are as follows:
1.1 Govemment
* Inter-Ministerial Committee for Road Safety (IMCRS)
* Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication (MOTT)
- Directorate of Road Safety and Circulation
- General Directorate of Transport Management (Road Transport)
- General Directorate of Road Transport Services
- General Road Directorate (GRD)
* Ministry of Public Order (Traffic Police)
* Ministry of Finance (MOF)
*   Ministry of Local Government and Decentarlization (MLGD)
* Ministry of Health (MOH)
* Ministry of Education (MOE)
* Municipalities
- 77 -



1.2 Ouasi-Govermment
* INSIG INSIG is expecting to be privatized in the near future.
* INSTAT
*   Albanian TV and radio
*   Albanian newspapers
1.3 Private Sector
*   Private insurance companies (4)
*   Petroleum companies
*   Transport companies
*   Transport equipment companies
1.4 Civil Societv
*  Non-govermmental groups
* Red Cross
*  Local community groups
2. Priorities for Major Stakeholders (i.e. under 1.1 above)
As preparation for the Road Maintenance Project (Road Safety Component), and in order to initiate the
Comprehensive Road Safety Program for Albania, the following priority action items should be pursued by
each of the major stakeholders. (Consulting services support for these activities will be provided within
RMP once the project becomes operational):
* Inter-Ministerial Committee for Road Safety (IMCRS)
- approve road safety policies, goals and objectives, including accident reduction targets and strategies
- approve roles and responsibilities of all road safety stakeholder groups
- approve program, schedule and key Albanian participants for a high level road safety awareness
seminar
- approve and identify accountability for a source of funding for road safety activities (e.g. portion of
driver/vehicle insurance premiums)
- identify senior government official responsible for implementation of the road safety program in
Albania
- approve cooperative working procedures between goverwnent stakeholders
- approve comprehensive road safety program
- approve annual road safety programs, priorities and budgets
- approve updates of road safety legislation as and when necessary
- consider introduction of traffic court system
- encourage private sector and civil society participation
* Ministry of Transport and Telecommunication (MOTT)
(i) Directorate of Road Safety (DRS)
-   develop road safety policies, goals and objectives, including accident reduction targets and strategies
-   define roles and responsibilities of all road safety stakeholder groups
-78 -



- develop program, schedule and key Albanian participants for a high level road safety awareness
seminar
-   provide liaison between IMCRS and other stakeholder agencies
-   provide general secretariat services to IMCRS
- develop comprehensive road safety program and stakeholder responsibilities
-   develop annual road safety programs, priorities and budgets
-   implement approved cooperative working procedures between government stakeholders
-   monitor and evaluate approved road safety activities
-   review road safety legislation and regulations, and recommend updates as and when necessary
-   identify opportunities and mechanisms for private sector and civil society participation in road safety
(ii) General Directorate of Transport Management (Road Transport)
- review driver training, testing and licensing programs and standards
- review vehicle testing, inspection and licensing programs and standards
(iii)  General Road Directorate (GRD)
- identify senior official responsible for implementation of the road safety program on national roads in
Albania
- review road sections and intersections where vertical and horizontal traffic control and safety measures
are required, and identify priorities
- participate with the traffic police in developing a systematic method of defining and locating accident
'blackspots', in planning for improvements, and identifying priorities
- collaborate with MLGD and the traffic police in defining and documenting a road referencing system
for Albania, in order to facilitate accurate recording of traffic accident locations
- introduce traffic safety conscious planning and road safety audit procedures in all road improvements,
including during roadworks
- participate with DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including estimates of needed goods and
services
- collaborate with DRS and the traffic police in monitoring and evaluating the effects of road safety
engineering remedial measures
-   coordinate with non-govemmental and community groups in addressing road safety concerns
* Ministry of Finance (MOF)
-   approve annual budget allocations for road safety activities; including MPO, GRD and MLGD
activities, and use of insurance and other contributions
- conduct annual financial audit of road safety activities, comparing costs and benefits.
* Ministry of Public Order (Traffic Police)
- identify senior officer responsible for implementation of the traffic police responsibilities within the
road safety progran in Albania
- introduce intensive enforcement of seat belt legislation, with accompanying publicity campaigns
- review current levels of sanctions and fines for their adequacy in changing errant driver behaviour
- review and recommend modifications/additions to the Road Code and present regulations, including
consideration of a traffic court system
- review enforcement policies to improve police visibility and to introduce targeted enforcement aimed at
changing driver behaviour
- 79 -



-  participate with GRD and MLGD in developing a systematic method of defining and locating accident
'blackspots', and planning for improvements
- collaborate with DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including publicity campaign
requirements, and in sharing traffic accident data
- collaborate with DRS, GRD and MLGD in the improvement of accident data recording and analysis
- participate with MOH in developing improvements in monitoring and recording the condition of
hospitalized traffic accident victims within 30 days after a crash
- participate with MOH in developing improvements in emergency response procedures and response
rates
Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization (MLGD)
-  identify senior official responsible for implementation of the road safety program on rural roads in
Albania
- review road sections and intersections where vertical and horizontal traffic control and safety measures
are required, and identify priorities
- participate with the traffic police in developing a systematic method of defining and locating accident
'blackspots', in planning for improvements, and identifying priorities
-  collaborate with GRD and the traffic police in defining and documenting a rural road referencing
system for Albania, in order to facilitate accurate recording of traffic accident locations
- introduce traffic safety conscious planning and road safety audit procedures in all road improvements,
including during roadworks
- participate with DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including estimates of needed goods and
services
- collaborate with DRS and the traffic police in monitoring and evaluating the effects of road safety
engineering remedial measures
- coordinate with non-governmental and community groups in addressing road safety concerns
Ministry of Health (MOH)
-  identify senior official responsible for implementation of MOH responsibilities within the road safety
program in Albania
- collaborate with DRS and traffic police in providing information and statistics on hospitalized traffic
accident victims
- participate with traffic police in developing improvements in monitoring and recording the condition of
hospitalized traffic accident victims within 30 days after a crash
- participate with DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including estimates of needed goods and
services
- participate with traffic police and fire services in developing improvements in ambulance and hospital
emergency response procedures and response rates
-  participate with traffic police in training in first aid and trauma treatment by emergency responders
Ministry of Education (MOE)
-  identify senior official responsible for implementation of MOE responsibilities within the road safety
program in Albania
- investigate opportunities to introduce road safety instruction for students at all levels within the
Albanian education system
- collaborate with DRS and traffic police in developing a road safety education program for
-80 -



irnplementation within the Albanian education system
participate with DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including estimates of needed goods and
services
* Municipalities
- identify senior officials responsible for implementation of the road safety program in urban areas
- collaborate with MLGD in the introduction of safety conscious planning techniques in all urban traffic
improvement schemes
- collaborate with MLGD, DRS and the traffic police in exchanging information on urban situations
where road safety is a concern
- participate with and MLGD and DRS in preparing annual road safety budgets, including estimates of
needed goods and services.
Two recent govermnent publications (GOA Road Safety Initiatives: (i) Road Safety Action Plan (MOTT);
and (ii) Road Safety and Traffic Directorate; Program 2002-2005) serve to confirm the commitment to
address road safety issues in Albania. These were provided to the mission in April 2002 and are attached
in Annex 8.
- 81 -



Additional Annex 14: Description of the method of measurement of the Key Performance
Indicators
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
A. OUTCOME / IMPACT INDICATORS
1.     Percent of population in the pilot areas with improved access to social amenities
The two hospitals of Vlora and Shkodra, which were recently rehabilitated under the Bank Health Project
will be the reference points to measure the impact of RMP on accessibility to social amenities. The
indicator will consider the ratio of the population which lives in a 10 km wide band on each side of any of
the Main National Roads and Rurl Roads on which maintenance works were successfully completed under
the RMP to the total population living in the area where the population using these hospitals lives.
The targets are:
Baseline:      0 %
Mid-term:     15 %
End:          30 %
2.     Traffic surveys to demonstrate the achievement of expected reductions in travel time of cars
on priority road sections
The RMP periodic and routine maintenance works on the Main Road Network and on the Rural Roads aim
to improve the level of service provided by these roads and therefore to reduce transport costs and travel
times. The indicator will be the reduction of total travel time for cars, in vehicle-hours, on the road sections
where periodic and routine maintenance works will be carried out under RMP. It will be computed as
shown in the table below:
Road section        Length        Measured travel   Average Annual     Vehicle-Hour
time for cars (in  Daily Traffic for
hours)             cars
(1)               (2)             (lx2)
Section 1
Section 2
E tc   ..._                 _  _ _   _  _  _ _ _  _                      _ _ _  _  _  _
T o tals_          _  _ _  _ _  _   _ _ _ _  _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _  _  _   _ _ _ _  _  _  _
The Baseline survey will be carried out by GRD and MLGD at Project inception stage.
The indicator reduction targets are:
Baseline:      0%
Mid-term:     10%
End:          20%
- 82 -



3.     National accident records indicate significant reductions in traffic fatalities rates
The indicator will consider the reduction in fatalities per 10,000 vehicles in the whole country (Baseline:
15.12 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles in 2000). This will be calculated from the official GOA traffic accident
and vehicle registration statistics.
The indicator reduction targets are:
Baseline:     0%
Mid-term:     5%
End:          10%
B. OUTPUT INDICATORS
1.     Compliance with agreed road standards and approved designs on road sections designated
for maintenance works with significant reductions in road roughness
The compliance with road standards and approved designs will be assessed from the Supervision
consultants Progress Reports in which the difficulties experienced by the contractors to fulfill the technical
specifications will be discussed.
Road roughness is measured by the GRD Soils and Materials Laboratory using the Bump Integrator which
was already used at the project design stage. The indicator will be the average of the roughness measured
for all the road sections included in the project for either periodic or maintenance works, weighted by traffic
volume and section length. It will be computed as shown in the table below:
Road section                                        Average Annual   Total Roughness
Length             IRI           Daily Traffic
(4)=(l x2x3)
(1)              (2)               (3)
Section 1
Section 2
Etc
Totals
Total (4)t [Total
Indicator                                                             (1) * Total (2) *
Total (3)]
A-different target is set for Main National Roads which are paved and the Rural Roads which are unpaved.
a) for Main National Roads
Baseline:     7.26
Mid-term:       6
End:            5
- 83 -



b) for Rural Roads
Baseline:     10
Mid-term:      8
End:           6
2.     National Road Administration (General Roads Directorate, GRD) restructured and
stengthened
The General Road Directorate should be restructured in order to reduce its activity in maintenance done on
force account and to manage an increasing number of contracts for both periodic and routine maintenance
works, and to introduce safety conscious techniques for roads planning, design, maintenance and
rehabilitation/re-construction. This restructuring will involve a revision of the whole GRD organization, of
the key staff job descriptions, the development of new operational procedures and training for their proper
application.
The targets are:
Baseline:     Not restructured
Mid-term:     GRD restructured, partly operational
End:          Fully operational
3.     Pavement and Bridge Management systems operational
A Pavement and Bridge Management System is being designed at GRD during project preparation. It aims
to store and analyze data on roads and bridges condition and traffic in order to optimize programming and
budgeting of maintenance operations. Its implementation will require collection of data to complement these
presently available and training of GRD staff in its effective utilization.
The targets are:
Baseline:     PBMS being designed
Mid-term:     PBMS approved and implemented
End:          PBMS fully operational
4.     Rural and municipality road administration department (Ministry of Local Government and
Decentralization, MLGD) strengthened
The Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization only recently received the responsibility of
maintaining the Rural Roads and to assist the Municipalities with the Urban Roads. A Department was
created for this purpose and its Head was recently appointed. The Department has to guide, coordinate and
supervise the activities of the districts road staff in charge of doing the maintenance on the Rural Roads and
to support the Municipalities as far as maintenance of urban roads are concerned.
The Project will support this Department and develop its capacity to plan, budget, program and implement
maintenance works on the Rural Roads by contract. This will include attention to road safety for all road
works on rural and urban roads.
- 84 -



The targets are:
Baseline:     Rural and Municipal Road Administration Department functioning at limited
capacity
Mid-term:     Strengthening program under implementation
End:          Department fully operational
5.     Number of designated "black spots" areas improved in compliance with agreed design
Some of the 60 black spots which the Project aimns to improve are located on roads on which periodic
maintenance will be carried out and their improvement in safe operation will be done as part of this
activity. Others will be dealt with on an individual basis. For each of them GRD needs to design proper
safety engineering improvement measures including, as appropriate : improvements in road geometry,
construction of separators, installation of crash barriers, repairs to bridge parapets, road marking, erection
of signs, etc.
The indicator will be the total number of designated "black spot" areas (these located on roads receiving
periodic maintenance plus the others) improved in compliance with the agreed designs:
The targets are:
Baseline:      0
Mid-term:     20
End:          30
6.     Institutional capacity developed within MOTT/GRD and MLGD to identify hazardous
locations and to design and implement physical measures to reduce road accidents at these locations,
as reflected in annual programs
The project includes several actions to develop road safety awareness and institutional capacity within
MOTT/GRD and MLGD to identify hazardous locations (in cooperation, coordination and collaboration
with the traffic police), and to design and implement physical measures to reduce road accidents at these
locations. The objective is to have these agencies prepare annual programs to identify and improve accident
black spots and to institutionalize safety audits for the planning, design and construction of all road
projects.
The targets are:
Baseline:     No program nor safety audit
Mid-term:     Improved accident data base and analysis procedures in place, Annual action
programs prepared by agencies
End:          Annual programs satisfactorily implemented and safety audits being carried out
7.     Institutional capacity developed within the traffic police to improve enforcement aimed at
specific unsafe road user behavior in order to reduce traffic accidents caused by identified key causal
factors
The project includes technical assistance and training to the traffic police in various aspects of their
responsibilities aimed at attaining improvements in enforcement policies and activities within the context of
a comprehensive road safety program. The project also includes the provision to the traffic police of radar
guns and alcohol-testing equipment to assist with the enforcement of excess speeding of vehicles in critical
areas, and of drink-driving. The traffic police consider that these two characteristics may be significant
- 85 -



causes of deaths and personal injuries in serious traffic accidents in Albania. Other factors include: very
limited use of seat-belts and reckless driving. The objective will be to develop targeted enforcement
strategies to change unsafe road user behavior.
The targets are:
Baseline:     Targeted enforcement practices limited. 0% baseline (2000) for accidents where
speeding, drink-driving, no use of seat-belts and reckless driving are contributing factors
Mid-term:     Radars, alcohol testers in use and enforcement statistics show increased number of
fines for speeding, drink-driving, no use of seat-belts and reckless driving. Accidents involving each of
these factors reduced by 5%
End:          Statistics show 10% reduction in accidents involving each of the factors of
speeding, drink-driving, no use of seat-belts, and reckless driving
8.     Improved cooperation between agencies and fully functional DRS, as reflected in DRS
Quarterly Reports to the Government and to the Public
The Directorate of Road Safety (DRS) should assist other MOTT Departments, MLGD, the Municipalities
and the Traffic Police to address traffic safety issues in Albania, particularly as far as safety considerations
for the planning, design, the construction or the improvement of road infrastructure is concerned. This
cooperation and support activity will be reported in DRS Quarterly Reports to the Government and to the
public. The reports should also incorporate the involvement of other key ministries (Health, Education and
Environment) and other agencies (e.g. INSIG, community groups) in addressing road safety issues. The
indicator will be based on the production, content and distribution of these reports, as follows:
The targets are:
Baseline:     No reports prepared
Mid-term:     Quarterly reports regularly submitted to the Government
End:          Reports are also disseminated to the public
- 86 -



Additional Annex 15: National and Rural Road Staff Reorientation Program
ALBANIA: Road Maintenance Project
1.     Development of the Local Road Construction Industry by reorienting the existing Road
Agencies labor force.
1.1    International Developments in Road Maintenance - Privatization and Commercialization
The idea of 'Privatization' or 'Commercialization' in the road sector is now almost universally accepted
and normally focuses on 'contracting out' the execution of works.
This process, whilst the growing trend internationally, does not in itself answer the problems of what to do
with existing labor force of existing road agencies. The answers to these problems are far more complex,
but have been tackled in other countries in ways that were both socially and politically acceptable.
1.2    The Overall Objectives of Adopting a Local Contractor (LC) Development System at this
Time in Albania
An overriding objective of adopting a development program for Local Contractors at this time is that it is in
pursuance of the Govermnents policies on privatization, and decentralization, but will also address the
serious problems associated with such policies, especially in the areas of poverty alleviation and job
creation.
The program is intended primarily to re-orientate the existing General Roads Directorate (GRD), and where
required the Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization (MLGD), labor force over to the private
sector, and ultimately to give them the opportunity to improve their standard of living and employment
possibilities.
The program proposed therefore intends to re-orientate many of the staff and services of the road agencies
within the country to the private sector over a period of time - possibly up to four years - and shape the
road network management and operations processes to match and support this program.
This process however has to be carried out with due sensitivity to those workers in the public service who
could be socially disadvantaged by the program.
The desirable objectives of the program are:
(i)    To realign the existing labor forces in GRD and MLGD closer to functioning as a private sector
industry;
(ii)   To encourage the many younger men currently employed in the road agencies to stay in their home
districts by giving them an identifiable role and guaranteed employment in the program of road repair and
maintenance.;
(iii)  To ensure that any proposed infrastructure programs do not simply deliver repaired or improved
roads, and road networks - with only a one time opportunity for employment - but also facilitate the
development of a trained and registered private sector local construction industry.
- 87 -



To achieve these objectives the program must however ensure:
(i)    That it gives the existing pool of available manpower potentially better rewards, wider recognition
and sustainable employment, in the form of contracted works and skill development, near the location of
their own homes;
(ii)  It does not marginalize or bypass individuals or groups currently employed by the Government, but
gives equal opportunity and encouragement to all those experienced road sector staff that are capable of
changing for the future;
(iii) That the program fully enjoys political support and will at both local and central levels, and also
with all donors and agencies involved in the national infrastructure building programs.
The LC development program must be seen and publicized as a window of opportunity to bring road
workers into the mainstream of modenization of the road network management and opeations based on
contracting maintenance works out, by giving them the opportunity to undertake all the road works for
which they are uniquely qualified, thus giving them the chance to enhance their abilities through sinple
training programs, ultimately identifying the retrained and re-orientated men as 'contractors'.
1.3 The Terms of Reference for Developing Local Contractors
a)     To produce a fully privatized and skilled road construction and maintenance industry at
decentralized level by combining the existing road agencies labor, with recognized contractors in a
'Assistant' role during the RMP implementation - as an initial step to exposing them to the opportunities
that exist in the private sector construction industry.
b)     To design and prepare all future road repair and maintenance programs that are financed by the
Govenment of Albania, in such a way that they support this private sector development scheme, by
tailoring all routine maintenance activities to contracted works, to suit the constitution of a local
contracting industry.
c)     To create a 'corporate' environment within the road sector management function by outsourcing
some of the planning and programming of works to qualified engineers and technicians, thus optimizing the
commercial returns from the maintenance programs that use the Local Contractor model.
d)     Localizing appropriate vocational training programs - with all the instruction/courses being given
in the local districts and villages (and in local languages) where the men live.
1.4 Introduction of a Vocational Training Program for Local Contractors
Develop a regionally based vocational training program in general construction that offers appropriate and
well defined training/retraining courses to the contractors in order to develop this retained (ex-government)
workforce. AlR training to be vocational and simple. Initially it will all be building trade based, and given in
the local residential areas of the contractors.
1.5 Grading the Local Contractors for Appropriate Contracted Works
The program will issue all Local Contractors registered as such in a database with an "incorporation
document" that gives the LC manager's bio-data and skill definition. This document will recognize him as a
-88 -



'Contractor' and show any training/retraining program that he has undertaken and will be updated with his
work experience details as he undertakes work as a contractor.
The contractors will be graded or certified according to the vocational training courses they have
successfully completed and received Certificates of Accreditation for.
2.0 Road Works Exclusively Allocated to Local Contractors Tendering
All road works that are of a routine nature, and which naturally are executed through labor intensive
methodologies, will be placed in contracts that will only be tendered through the LC system. These
contracts, as a consequence, will be let exclusively to this cadre of contractors. The works could be
expected to initially include:
*      Drainage and roadside ditch cleaning
*      Shoulder repairs
*      Carriageway repairs (shingle roads)
*      Grass and vegetation control
As the ability of some of the LC's could be expected to improve with experience and further training, their
works could then be expanded to include:
*      Minor brick and block work repairs
*      Painting and repair of signs and kilometer posts
*      Production and painting of simple roadside markers
For the few LC's which will develop more advanced road pavement construction skills then the works
would be further expanded to also include:
*      Simple carriageway potholing and patching repairs using bituminous materials and graded
aggregates.
The progressive development of the LC level of contracting would be geared to the type of contract and
works that could be exclusively tendered to a local construction industry.
As the privatized/commercialized maintenance program begins to take effect and the general level of road
and highway serviceability improves, so the techniques and methodologies of maintenance, especially of the
pavement, would also be enhanced. This would require appropriate training to those contractors which
developed in capacity and capability.
The actual program within the first year (2003) will depend very much on the speed at which the
mechanism for Government funding of this form of road maintenance (speed of embracing privatization) is
set up and ftmds are made available for contract payments.
All works in each of the regions will be subject to utilizing standardized contract documentation for the LC
contract scheme, designed according to Government guidelines. The new documentation will be applied
universally throughout the road agencies for all parts of the road network as an component of the overall
drive to generally inprove the quality of highway maintenance outputs in Albania.
- 89 -



A new 'National Specification For Highway Works', should be prepared within the first three months of
the programs onset. It will cover all road maintenance works on all Main National, Rural and Urban roads.
The purpose of this National Specification is to ensure that works concerning maintenance, rehabilitation,
or reconstruction of roads and highways, are carried out to one quality performance standard.
Goals for the Reorientation of GRD and RRD's Labor Force
a) To produce a fully privatized and skilled road maintenance organization where possible from the
existing maintenance labor force, but supplemented by localized contracting capacity where necessary;
an organization that is well suited to serve the maintenance and conservation needs of the Albanian road
network This makes use of the invaluable local knowledge of roads within the labor force.
b) To redesign how road maintenance is forecasted and works are ordered by tailoring all routine
maintenance activities in the form of contracted work - to suit the constitution of the local contracting
industry.
c) To create a corporate environment within the management function at GAD and RRD level to make
the planning and programming of works more effective, with maximum economic returns from
maintenance programs that utilize the Local Contractor model.
d) Reduce the effects of any unavoidable retrenchment of the existing road workforce to a minimum by
the creation of a domestic construction industry by concentrating the program firstly in those areas
where enforced unemployment will create the greatest hardship i.e. rural locations with lintle alternative
employment.
e) Create the necessary social protection for this embryo contracting industry by establishing fixed
conditions of contractor involvement and participation in all Government and guasi-Rovernmental
proiects and programs within all districts of the countrv. The creation where appropriate of 'Guarantees
of Work'.
f) Ensure the maximum participation in the program of the labor force, by localizing the vocational
training programs - with all the instruction/courses being given in the local districts and villages (and in
local languages) where the men live and, carrying out the training for the labor whilst pavine their
existing salaries and during their normal working hours.
3.0 Labor Utilization During the Road Maintenance Program
The rationalization of the labor force is being considered departmentally, but is not yet complete.
The IDA funded project, will not define how soon the labor will all be nrivatized (or retrenched) because
the speed with which the institution takes up maintenance by contract on the whole network, will be
dependent upon the Government perception of the results of the project
It is not possible therefore to forecast either the sWeed of take up or even if privatized maintenance is
preferred. The project is however designed to show a process of how this may be best achieved.
- 90 -



The basic principle is to expose the labor to the work of private sector contractors and thus let the labor see
first hand the better retums and rewards for working as a private sector contractor.
The important part of this process is to formalize the linkage between the laborer and the contractor. This is
done by naming him (her) as an 'Assistant' to the contractor for the duration of the contract.
3.1     The Government Labor as 'Contract Assistants' on the Pilot Contract Lengths
For all roads that are the subject of a pilot project of routine maintenance (or including routine
maintenance, the names of the GRD (or Rural Development Department) men who are designated as the
Government paid laborers for the specific section on which the contract is located, will be notified to the
Contractor as 'Contract Assistants' (or Counterparts) for the duration of his contract.
This process will enable the Contractor-
-      To utilize the knowledge of the laborer of the section to improve the safety procedures on site for
his staff - the laborers are very aware, from their experience, where the most dangerous sites are for men
working in the traffic stream.
-      To utilize the knowledge of the laborer of the section to find where the sites of recurrent drainage
and water problems exist when there are especially heavy rains or floods.
-      To utilize the knowledge of the laborer of the section to locate hidden pipes, culverts, or other road
furniture that may not be immediately apparent, but that need maintenance.
-      To utilize the knowledge of the laborer of the history of the road to take into account when overlays
and other special treatments took place.
-      To utilize the knowledge of the laborer of the location of materials such as aggregates, water
supply for site use, and local services such as petrol and diesel supplies.
For the Laborer this hands on experience:
-      Provides an insight into the level of financial reward that can be gained from his existing skill - if
he moves into the private sector.
-      Can introduce alternative employment opportunities with the contractor on other works and sites.
-      Will usually reflect well on himn personally, within the local community, as the 'beat' or section for
which he is responsible on a day-to-day basis is improved back to original or near original condition.
3.2    Institutional Conditions that Can Facilitate the Road Construction Industry Development
Program in Albania
1)     The Characteristics of the Existing Labor Force
The existing GRD labor force does not have a great number of staff members that are approaching
retirement age. There are a few however, aged in the upper fifty age group, that could perhaps be
- 91 -



persuaded to take earlier retirement, if the conditions for separation were suited to them.
There is a significant number of younger men, who, given the right sort of opportunities, may well have the
entrepreneurial spirit to move over to the private sector in a very short time frame. They would only need
the opportunity of contracts and/or guarantees of work in the short term. The LC development program -
as designed by the Consultants - is aimed at just this type of person. Added to the contracts and guarantees
of work for this younger group of men is a vocational training program that aims to teach them additional
skills.
2)     The Technical Staff of the GRD and RRD
Within the staffs that are in the seven GRD regional offices there is a general feeling that the only way
forward for effective road maintenance of the national roads is through privatization.
In meetings with the Consultants, several of the engineers and technicians (in each region) have asked if it
is possible for them to participate in the program in a private capacity. They were told that this could only
take place if they were not public sector employees. Several said that they were ready to move to the
private sector if they could receive some form of work guarantee over a period of years.
They were only considering a role for themselves as contractors. The Consultants pointed out to them that a
more important role would be that of Program Designer or Supervisors, in a private consultant capacity,
and this would be an even more valid in the future.
3.3    The Rationalization Program for the GRD Labor Force
If the privatization process being proposed through the RMP program is then adopted for all works on the
complete network of national roads this would mean a total number of 1053 (at the 31st March 2002)
staff being affected from the labor force.
During the coming four year period 20% of these would reach retirement age. This would result in a
candidate list for the LC Scheme of approximately 800 although it could be anticipated that some would
not wish to be re-orientated as contractors.
It may therefore be expected that 600 persons whom the scheme could train and reorient to the private
sector. It could also be expected that some of the staff would pool their experience and organize as
'enterprises' (and this process should be encouraged) and they then can be considered for works of a larger
scale, especially in subjects like shoulder reconstruction and spot improvement works. Then over the RMP
four-year period this would provide enough private sector contractors in the market to guarantee
competition for routine maintenance contracting.
3.4    The Rationalization of the MLGD Staff
The privatization process for the labor force working on the Rural and Urban Roads will be more difficult.
The range and complexity of works, where there are also some areas of urban street maintenance, will
require a specialist approach and will have to be the subject of a more detailed analysis when the level of
contract works are determined. However since RMP will concern only about 25% of the total secondary
road network in Albania, it may be anticipated that the privatization of maintenance will have a lower
impact on the MLGD affected staff.
-92 -



IBRD 31359
18-30  /            19O00                19'30'              20'00'              2030'               21-00'
CR    TIA!
42-30t            +     \   t                ToN,LWlT kJ                    1' 'VaIbono         FEDERAL REPUBLIC        4230
0<  \  . '/t      \   OF YUGOSLAVIA
k                Wran g ~~     ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Hoth  BC,rrcr, n m ,
ALBANIA                                                                                 donor WB _TiThE)
ik ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odr Cro
ROAD MAINTENANCE                                                                       Kru        end 2003
PROJECT       (RMP)          hdesigns             shkO Le
-42'00 SITUJATION OF THE MAIN ROAD                                                                          I42-00
CONSTRUCI1ON PROJECTS
BY END 2001                       donor Gov A                              e   n repair               J
EUROPEAN UNION (EU)
7)    BORDER CROSSSINGS/PORTS                        e       R 6ik       6nesh,
WORLD BANK (WB)           donor WB                          Rre h.n  o
'EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK EIB)Peshkop
r - -71 KUWAITi FUND            ends 0e Ku                    Mt r
ITAUAN COOPERATION                                     a t          ,el
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
EUROPEAN BANK FOR                                        KueBlo
4 -30'      RECONSTRUCTION AND                                       e Kr                                        FYR    41-30'-
1,     p DEVELOPMENT (EBRD)     eond lut 20Skop01
---, | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~design 22               |            -EU 
|O  SELECTED CITIES                                                                              len 2     
*   DISTRICT CENTERS          end mid 2003l
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                K le                          ia                  nor
NATIONAL ROADS            donor EU                                                                        (ThFSE)
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   endhmid 2001rolazBorder*CEobsinn
__         _ _ _           J     __VIdSes                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prreples  es e-Tho0es
41-oo                                 end mid2003 0_0 'SCeS \>                                   ,   |i * i Sioj 41-CrA0
(brposs) J5Y I > ~~~~~~~An   donor EIBd +E         Gujr K id   t0
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~end bb2             Gram       Pogrode ,
0        20  20 0 40   50                                                                                     r
KllOMEltrs          /         j         Beratinove     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~emergency repair 
TN, i>V pd.d , M Dru.,dOsw T6no WEIB 9-        \         rol                       ONLY                \     1\     |oIn.r
Th.blndon.nondnnnnonon.nndnnynA.srfonmo.*  donor EIB  K\forol                        end  late 2001
\nodonnkn!y    .pO5OThWS4On           end 2004-Seeicaz 
DI,  8   ) 30      r1    .  40-30'               I '                                                     AO-3 0 -
g( oEIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSA                                                    Co. rofode
D                                                                 he$                                  don\.  donrEE
*R GERM~~~~~~~ANY PIAN                                                                                   er id tme2 OO2
~'SWITr,$'.AUSTRJJ HUNGARY /              40elrE
j S ta>y F~~~~~~~~~~~~ELARLISoO Toepetn
EPiso                                don r;i  EIBEL?                                                   dono EU ^r _ -
F. J.       NprokoAoster eRndNIlaedelat0200
\  RSeoCE A egeEnEv   TGERKEY                                                               ECE(.  -
TyA %- 7U        fle4>;l6M    R                     19-30' o       -n  20Y102  3            20-30'                 MAY 20n1
T, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2                                     00'20&20'                               21:00'
MAY 2 02






IBRD 31862
1830'            1900'            1930'            2000'             2030'             21-00'
42-30'  C    A                          To                                           FEDERAL REPUBUC      A2-30'-
T. Mki6   /                0                  OF YUGOSLAVIA
k               W   ln~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~n i Hotb  Boirms 
Fus               ~~~~~~~~If
42 00-                                                                                                    42-00'-
ALBANIA
ROAD MAINTENANCE                          S          R       Kurbncshi
PROJECT (RMP)
_^=             ~~~~~~~~Peshkopl 
Fushe Kugg           ~     
>     piot    nrrel             i ot
PROJECT.
Al30             ROAD MAINTENANCE                                                                  FYR    41-30-
- -> oe  Tcpize  c,          Skpj.  MACEDONIA
o   SELECTED CITIES
*   DISTRICT CENTERS
   NATIONAL CAPITAL               Plep 
NATIONAL ROADS                                     robe                  Skopje
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                      Librazhd
|   goszh,ne   EIco          \Prren csi *Orc 
y          s                Prrepls  L   GP f--Tho es
41-00'                                                                                                    41t %G,,Kd 
)   g/)  \           ~~~~~~   ~     ~     ~   ~~~Gramsh  X   #) 
s 8 / _\ >i6~~~Kucoveh. 
0   I,0  20  30  40  50
QLOMEERtos                                         BerS  uzmvd
Nh. nW  popr d byIt. MpnD..rg UO   Th. WodKg rBol Fokr
T. b-d-,  -,dn.-d.o   a doo   oo yoOfo oocflh oto.m
o  o h. mc p -&, o  o,d  - . . r b Th. Won po   W -1, l  ,  h 
Go.?,o -y b 4otoAapooo   olo . ioo o Y                                                           B Dreno lis  apshtice
18R30'            19-00'
_\   7                               AO 430'                                                              40-30 t K-w
-. ' GERMNY  pOAND f-       ~            9\                  \         \s;et RUSSLAN
SWEDE~~~~~~~~FDt~               lr              Kaa
/5wmz - r   >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S^~~~~~l  >           \GgIro~~~~~~~~~~Koelr6  Er  
POLAND
CZECH       ~~~~~UKRAINE
)*REP     r
*AUST1                          40LDO0
>  q<>'._, ~~~~HUNGARY !A..<      - 000'                     \\                |4000'-
s  Lof "/.<   ROMANLA                                                                 GREECE
~~~~~~~~~~~td ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~T rW- n >   , S
Monk (0)  eREErE3geon5, yScran            ko
Adn~~~~~~~Sn
19-30'           20-300                              21-o
MAY 2002









IMAGING
Report No.         23818  ALB
Type:     PAD



