Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Report No: AC99
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated. 06/03/2003
A. Basic Project Data (Jromn PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country. ALBANIA                                 Project ID. P066260
Project: Road Maintenance Project                Task Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Authorized to Appraise Date. April 15, 2002      fBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval. June 27, 2002                    IDA Amount ($m): 17.00
Managing Unit: ECSIE                             Sector: Central government administration (11%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Roads & highways (89%)
Status Lending                                   Theme: Other social protection and risk management
(P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The proposed project seeks to improve the overall maintehance of Albania's road network, including both
the national and rural roads, both in the near term and on an ongoing basis. Measures to increase general
road safety awareness and strengthen coordination of road safety programming would support the
establishment of an appropriate enabling environment for a multi-dimensional, sustainable Road Safety
Program. The introduction of targeted enforcement strategies, combined with integrated road safety
campaigns and remedial measures at accident black spots, would aim to reduce the number of traffic
accidents and mnnimize the offsetting effects of improved road conditions and expected higher traffic
speeds. It will have the following specific objectives:
1. Improving the efficiency of the management of the national and rural road network by (i)
restructuring the national road administration (GRD), and (n) strengthening the rural road
administration unit in MLGD
2. Improving road safety by (i) developing the institutional capacity in MOT/GRD and MLGD to
identify hazardous locations and to design and implement physical measures to reduce road accidents
at these locations, and (n) providing technical assistance and equipment to the traffic police to
improve law enforcement.
I A.3 Project Description (From PDS).
The project will include the following components:
1. Maintenance of National and Rural Roads
WORKS: About 1000 km of roads and bridges of the national road network and about 1000 kin of roads
and bridges of the rural road network.
GOODS    Equipment for road surveys, office equipment, vehicles and supplies for effective project
implementation; equipment for road database development and implementation.
TRAINING   AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:          restructuring of the national and rural road
management, assessing impact on rural and health facility accessibility; recommending appropriate road
user charges based on funding needs; services to prepare the engineering design and carry out
supervision of road works; training for the private road construction industry; consultant services for PIU
operation; consultant services for environmental  management, training and public information
campaigns; project audits.



2
ISDS
2. Traffic Safety
WORKS: physical measures to improve safety selected priority areas and accident blackspot locations.
GOODS: traffic control devices; data storage/retrieval and analysis system for Traffic Police accident
unit and for the MOTT General Directorate of Road Safety, safety enforcement equipment.
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: road safety awareness seminar for senior GOA and
other officials; consultant services and training for MOTT to support implementation of the DRS and its
working procedures; consultant services and training for GRD; consultant services and training for
MLGD; consultant services and training for the Traffic Police.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, infonnation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project covers national and rural roads across the entire country. The total road network in the
country is about 16,000 km. Initial surveys revealed that nowhere on this "available" network one can
find maintenance works that have either been defected or totally neglected. An examination of all the
roads that have not deteriorated to a condition requiring reconstruction and can be saved with an
appropriate periodic treatment, equalled approximately 2,000 km of contract sites. The works at the
selected maintenance sites will not adversely affect any critical habitats, cultural hentage sites, or
international waterways.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments The project is expected to have only imnor negative impacts on the environment, as it will focus
on road maintenance and rehabilitation activities, such as filling and patching potholes and areas of
bituminised pavement that have become loose/dislodged; fixing and painting parts of the drainage structures,
culverts and pipes; replacing lost materials on shoulders, improving road safety conditions by posting hazard
warning boards and physical barriers at high risk spots. All works will be carried out on existing features of
the road or highway, as it exists, therefore no resettlement or land acquisition is involved
C Safegutard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on X for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
l-                         Policy                                 Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       0 Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              (U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               (U Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  () Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              U Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               (9 Yes 6 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes (9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          U Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    (9 Yes 0 No
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumitmary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all r elevant questions If informnation is not available,



3
ISDS
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Slight negative impacts primarily of a temporary nature are associated with the construction phase and
would be restricted to road works related to movements of men, and materials (asphalt, rocks, dust, noise
etc.), excavation of borrow pits, disposal of construction wastes, and handling and storage of materials
(concrete, asphalt, lubricants, fuels, paints). After completion, the project will have positive indirect
impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of accidents; reduced air pollution from
more even travel speeds on rehabilitated road sections, cleaning up of solid waste from roadside drains;
and reduced water pollution resulting from rehabilitated drainage systems. Materials (e.g. asphalt, stone,
etc.) would be supplied only from sources with approved licenses, pennits, and/or approvals for
environment and worker safety, and any equipment used during construction would meet internationally
recognized standards for environment and worker health and safety.
A significant issue that has emerged is the dumping of solid wastes into highway drainage channels.
During the initial surveys it was found that in and around settlements, drainage channels and right-of-way
on rural as well as national roads all over the country are being used as receptacles for garbage, plastic
bags, broken machinery and household appliances and other trash. The practice while being detnmental
to public health, is also instrumental in deteriorating the condition of the roads due to reduced drainage
capacity A number of such sites have been identified under the project, some constituting major
dumping grounds requiring significant clean up efforts. Therefore, while pursuing a policy of doing no
harm, the project will also pursue opportunities for environmental improvement by cleaning up waste
from roadside drains and organizing public awareness campaigns on solid waste management
At an early stage in project preparation it was considered that resettlement issues might possibly arise
from small business encroachments on road rights-of-way, and a policy framework for safeguard
compliance for minor adverse impacts was prepared. As the project definition has evolved, and more
emphasis has been placed on routine maintenance (e g, pothole patching) rather than periodic
maintenance, the probability that any resettlement issues will arise has become even more remote.
Nevertheless the safeguard compliance framework remains incorporated in the project.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more thani one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
I] D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II D.3. Describe arrangement for the boiTower to address safeguard issues
In accordance with World Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4 01 Environmental Assessment) the
project is rated environmental category B and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
prepared by the Borrower. The EMP includes mitigation plan, monitoring plan, implementation
arrangements, institutional strengthening needs, estimiated costs, and a record of the public consultations.



4
ISDS
The World Bank reviewed the document during a Pre-Appraisal mission and requested some revisions
and clarifications. Provisions of the EMP will be applied to all activities undertaken as part of the project
by the GRD and MLGD, including design of road works. As appropriate, mitigation measures specified
in the EMP will be incorporated in each bidding document for works and contractors will be required to
build into their bid rates the envisaged costs for these mitigation measures. The terms and conditions of
the contracts will require compliance with the EMP as a condition of the contract to proceed and obtain
payments.
Solid waste clean up will be entrusted to licensed operators, with appropriate provisions in their contract
documents to carry out visual inspections for hazardous materials before handling, segregate waste
fractions as necessary, use appropnate safety measures while handling and transporting the wastes, and
dispose at authorized dump sites with the approval of the local authorities.
The institutional strengthening measures include a local environmental engineering consultant in the PIU
to assist with the preparation of bidding documents for the solid waste clean up, and to conduct public
information campaigns and organize community drive to better collect and dispose of solid waste. The
consultant will also provide training on the environmental management aspects of the project to the
Ministry of Environment and its regional offices, the district level road agencies of the GRD and MLGD,
and the community focal persons (on solid waste management issues). The EMP recommends the
GRD/MLG to initiate a dialogue with the appropriate government agencies on the solid waste issue and
undertake measures to prohibit waste dumping on the roads
The Borrower is committed, under the Credit Agreement, to implement the EMP through the institutional
arrangements described in the document The overall cost of the EMP implementation, estimated at
$132,000, has been allocated among the project components appropriately. As the Supplemental Credit
will finance additional maintenance work of the same kind as the original project, no amendments to the
EMP are required.
The Borrower is committed, under the EMP, to a policy framework for safeguard compliance for minor
adverse impacts of resettlement.
II D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholders have been fully consulted. Description of who were consulted, when, where, and the
method of consultation are described in the EMP Section 11. Public hearings were held in all 12
Prefectures. The participants included national and local public institutions, NGOs and members of
affected communities living close to road sections to be rehabilitated under the project. During these
consultations, the Chairpersons of the Prefects assisted by their teclnical staff and Directors of the
Regional and Rural Road Directorates addressed questions on the environmental and social aspects of the
project. The stakeholders affirmed their commitment to support the project in its stated environmental
objectives, especially with regards to the cleanng and disposal of road side solid waste.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP) Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply
S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in managemenit of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2 - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are



5
ISDS
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF - Financial intermnediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requiremenets
Environnmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               3/18/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           3/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            3/20/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         3/20/2002
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Fr amework              E.rpected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected       Actutal
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan                                  Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted bv       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Cesar Queiroz                               05/28/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists I:  Nirmala Saraswat/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Radhika Srinivasan/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3
Approved bv:                  Nanic                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator Jane E. Holt                              05/28/2003
Sector Director               Hossein Razavi                              05/28/2003
Comments
The updated ISDS was prepared to include a Supplemental Credit of US$13 million equivalent that will
be used to return the investment program for the Road Maintenance Project to its original size, improving
about 1,000 km of the national road network and about 1,000 km of the rural road network. No changes
to the originally negotiated credit are proposed.



6
ISDS



