Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3683-1 ALB 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Road Maintenance Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 24, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3683-1 ALB 
(Amendment) 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 2003 between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Road Maintenance Project) dated July 15, 2002 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Road Maintenance Project, as described in Recital (A) of the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the “and” at the end of Subsection (g), substituting “; and” for “.” at the end of 
Subsection (h) and adding a new Subsection (i) as follows: 
“(i) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Road Maintenance Project) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated July 15, 2002”. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,000,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an 
original amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000) (the Initial Financing); and 
(b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,500,000) (the Additional 
Financing).” 
 
Section 1.03.  Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.02 (b).   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars two separate special deposit accounts, one for the 
Initial Financing of the Project (Special Account A), and one for the Additional 
Financing of the Project (Special Account B), in a bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
“; provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.05. The word “Credit” in Section 2.07 (a) is deleted and replaced with 
the words “Initial Financing”. 
 
Section 1.06. Section 2.08 is renumbered as Section 2.09, and new Section 2.08 
is added as follows: 
“Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Additional 
Financing in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 
commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 2023.  Each installment 
shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount.” 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.07. Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in the Annex I to this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.08. The description of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended as follows: 
(a) 
The length of the national roads to be maintained and repaired under 
paragraph 1 of Part A of the Project is changed from 
“500 km” to “1,000 
km”; and 
(b) 
The length of the rural roads to be maintained and repaired under paragraph 
2
of
Part A of the Project is changed from “500 km” to “1,000 km”. 
 
Section 1.09. Part C of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,000,000 
equivalent,” in paragraph 1 (a) of Part C is deleted; 
(b) 
The phrase “up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $280,000 
equivalent,” in paragraph 2 of Part C is deleted; and  
(c) 
The phrase “up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
equivalent,” in paragraph 3 of Part C is deleted. 
 
Section 1.10. Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in the Annex II to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, 
Page  5
-
4
-
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By:  Kastriot Islami 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/  Eugen Scanteie 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ANNEX I   
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Initial Financing  
Additional 
 
 
Allocated  
Financing 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
10,600,000 
8,412,000 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
(a) under Part B (3) 
 
 
local expenditures 
 
of the Project 
200,000 
73,000 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
(b) under Parts A, 
 
 
expenditures for 
 
B (1), (2) and (4) 
 
 
other items 
 
of the Project 
400,000 
145,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
 services, 
training 
 and 
audit 
2,300,000
870,000
85% 
 
TOTAL 13,500,000
9,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; 
 
(iii) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for individual consultants not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Page  9
-
8
-
ANNEX II   
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A for the Initial Financing and an amount 
equivalent to 750,000 in respect of the Special Account B for the Additional Financing to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 in respect of the Special Account A for the Initial Financing and an amount 
equivalent to $375,000 in respect of the Special Account B for the Additional Financing 
until: (i) in respect of the Special Account A for Initial Financing, the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000; and (ii) in 
respect of the Special Account B for the Additional Financing, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Page  10
-
9
-
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  11
-
10
-
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
