Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (pid) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Project Name 
Education Sector Development Support Credit III 
Region South 
Asia 
Sector SASHD 
Project ID 
P102541 
Borrower(s) 
Government of the People뭩 Republic of Bangladesh 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education 
Date PID Prepared 
April 17, 2007 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
05/12/2007 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
06/19/2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bangladesh has made impressive progress in improving access to education.  Gross primary 
enrollment rates are around 90 percent, and the secondary enrollment rate has more than doubled 
to 57 per cent since independence.  Bangladesh has already met the Millennium Development 
Goal (MDG) on gender parity in primary and secondary schooling. However, the progress so far, 
still leaves much to be attained. Quality of education is a major concern at all levels. Many of the 
sector's problems are systemic.  
 
In secondary and higher secondary education, Bangladesh has a unique system of public-private 
partnership which combines public financing with private provision of education. The system has 
a
tremendous potential in the given environment if properly steered, but at the same time, it was 
subject to lack of transparency and elite capture.  To improve governance, the Government began 
implementing a substantive policy reform agenda to ensure systemic improvement, quality and 
relevance of secondary education.  This was supported by the World Bank through two 
programmatic Education Sector Development Support Credits. The Government has successfully 
implemented the first two phases. The proposed Education Sector Development Support Credit 
III (ESDSC III), aims to deepen and sustain Bangladesh뭩 continued reforms in the education 
sector.  
 
2. 
Proposed objective and preliminary description of the program 
 
The key development objective of this support is to assist MoE in implementing substantive 
policy reforms to enhance governance and improve the quality and relevance of secondary 
education.  IDA뭩 support to the Government뭩 reform program particularly focuses on (i) greater 
transparency in the use and allocation of resources, tying resource allocation to performance and 
accountability and greater stakeholder participation; (ii) streamlining the teacher recruitment 
process based on agreed criteria and standards to make it more transparent and to ensure the 
selection of best candidates as teachers free from all kinds of influences; and (iii) enhancing 
competition in textbook production and publishing and improving relevance of curricula. 
 
These reforms are intended to lead to outcomes such as more equitable access to secondary 
education with more schools being set up in underserved areas, better trained and more effective 
teachers, reduced teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates.  This will 
ultimately lead to a more skilled labor force attuned to the needs of the Bangladeshi labor market, 
and the same time, raise its competitiveness in global markets. By tying performance in provision 
39949 
Page  2
of education to incentives, and building greater accountability and community participation, these 
reforms will reduce rent-seeking opportunities, undue political interference, and enhance cost-
effectiveness. 
 
Education figures importantly in the PRSP.  In keeping with the PRSP, both MoPME and MoE 
have developed and started implementing their medium-term strategies for primary and 
secondary education respectively.  The focus of the strategies is on enhancing the quality of 
education, ensuring equitable access and best utilization of their scarce resources.  The strategies 
provide policy directions, specify targets, and recommend actions required to attain these targets. 
The present operation in secondary education conforms to th
e
Government뭩 strategic vision in 
the education sector and complements its overall governance reforms initiatives supported by the 
Bank through a series of Development Support Credits 
 
The critical prior actions under this credit are as follows:   
 
System Management 
 

Independent evaluation of the performance of service providers assessing school eligibility 
for subvention and implementation of recommendations.
 

An independent evaluation of the pilot on a means-tested stipend scheme and moving 
toward development of framework for a national approach based on the recommendations.
 

Enhancement of capacity of MoE/BANBEIS to update data annually, and carry out third-
party surveys.  Student assessment for students in grades 9 and 12 based on internationally 
recognized assessments (such as TIMSS).
 

Approval of an action plan to assist the ill-performing schools in the poorer or 
disadvantaged areas. 
 

Implementation of MoE financial management improvement plan with an effective 
financial management unit in place. 
 

Preparation of environmental guidelines for new school construction.
 
Teacher Effectiveness 
 

Third-party evaluation of Non-government Teacher Registration and Certification 
Authority뭩   registration and certification process and implementation of 
recommendations. 

Developing a teacher training plan for new and head teachers as well as subject specialists 
in English, Mathematics and the Sciences.
 
Curriculum and Textbooks 
 

Completing all aspects of NCTB restructuring and 
functional separation of the 
Textbook and curriculum wings of NCTB. 

Completing the process of competition for textbook publishing and printing for the 
entire secondary education system
.
3. Environment 
Aspects 
 
Overall, the program is environmentally benign, and will not have significant effects on the 
environment, natural resources, or forests.  In particular, the policies supported under the program 
do not lead to higher levels of physical investment, but support more equitable access through 
Page  3
reductions in the establishment of new schools in overserved upazilas, balanced by the 
establishment of institutions in underserved
 
upazilas
.
MoE has met the trigger for the third credit 
on preparing and strengthening the environmental guidelines for school construction under an 
overall environment management framework. 
 
4. Tentative 
Financing
 
$100m. 
Source: 
IDA 
     Total 
 
$100m. 
 
6. Contact 
Point:
 Subrata S. Dhar (Task Team Leader) 
 
The World Bank Office Dhaka 
 
Block E 32 Agargaon, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
 
Dhaka 1207, Bangladesh
 
