                                 Documentof
                                The World Bank


                                                             Report No. 39740-BD




              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                    FOR A


 PROPOSEDTHIRD EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORTCREDIT



                  INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 65.6 MILLION
                     (US%lOOMILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                      TO

                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH




                                 May 22,2007




Human DevelopmentSectorUnit
SouthAsia Region



 This document hasa restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
              Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (Tk.)
                    US$1 = Tk68.90 (April 2007)




                      Government Fiscal Year
                            July 1 -June 30



             ABBREVIATIONSANDACRONYMS


AAA        Analytic and Advisory Activity
ADB        Asian Development Bank
A D P      Annual Development Program
A T C      Agreement on Textile and Clothing
BANBEIS    Bangladesh Bureau o f Educational and Information Statistics
BBS        Bangladesh Bureau o f Statistics
BEd        Bachelor inEducation
BISE       Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education
BTEB       Bangladesh Technical Education Board
CAMPE      Campaign for Popular Education
CAO        ChiefAccounts Officer
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs       Community Based Organizations
CEA        Country Environmental Analysis
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA       Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
CTG        Care Taker Government
C&AG       Comptroller and Auditor General
DDO        District Disbursement Officer
DIA        Directorateof Inspection and Audit
DflD       Department for InternationalDevelopment
DOE        Department o f Environment
DSC        Development Support Credit
DSHE       Directorate o f Secondary and Higher Education
EC         European Commission
EED        Education Engineering Department
EFA        Education for All
ESDSC      Education Sector Development Support Credit
ESR        Education Sector Reform
ESRP       Education Sector Reform Program
EU         European Union
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FFE        Foodfor Education Program
FIMA       Financial Management Academy
FMRP       Financial Management Reform Program
FMU        Financial Management Unit
FSS        Female Secondary Stipends
FY         Fiscal Year
GBs        Governing Bodies
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOB        Government o f Bangladesh
HIES       Household Income and Expenditure Survey
HSC        Higher Secondary Certificate
I A S      InternationalAccounting Standard
IBAS       Integrated Budget and Accounting System
IDA        International Development Association


                                    ii

                                                                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
             IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
             IIB                   Independent Inspection Body
             IMF                   International Monetary Fund
             I-PRSP                Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
             IPSAS                 International Public Sector Accounting Standards
             ITEC                  Independent Textbook Evaluation Committee
             JICA                  Japan International Cooperation Agency
             M D G                 Millennium Development Goals
             MoE                   Ministryof Education
             MoEF                  Ministry of Environment and Forest
             MoF                   Ministry o f Finance
             MoPME                 Ministry o f Primary and Mass Education
             MPO                   Monthly Pay Order
             MTBF                  Medium term Budgetary Framework
             MTRT                  Mobile Training Resource Team
             M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
             NACER                 NationalAdvisory Committee on Education Reforms
             NAEM                  NationalAcademy of Education Management
             NAPE                  NationalAcademy of Primary Education
             NCB                   Nationalized Commercial Bank
             NCTB                  NationalCurriculum and Textbook Board
             NCTE                  National Council for Teacher Education
             NGOs                  Non-Governmental Organizations
             NORAD                 NorwegianAgency for Development Cooperation
             NPFP                  NationalPoverty Focal Point
             NTRCA                 Non-government Teacher Registration and Certification Authority
             N V T B               National Vocational Training Board
             PAC                   Public Account Committee
             PEDP I                Primary Education Development Program I
           ' PEDPII                Primary Education Development Program I1
             PEFA                  Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
             PER                   Public Expenditure Review
             PFM                   Public Financial Management
             PFMIP                 Public Financial Management Improvement Plan
             PRGF                  Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
             PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
             PRSC                  Poverty Reduction Support Credit
             PTA                   Parents Teachers Association
             RIBEC                 Reform inBudget and Expenditure Control
             ROSC                  Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
             SMCs                  School Management Committees
             SOEs                  Statement of Expenditures
             SOE
             ssc                   State Owned Enterprises
                                   Secondary School Certificate
             TIMSS                 Trends in International Mathematics and Sciences
             TTC                   Teachers' Training College
             UNICEF                UnitedNations International Children's Fund
             WDR                   World Development Report




                                      Country Director:     Xian Zhu, SACBD
                                         Sector Director:   Julian Schweitzer, SASHD
                                        Sector Manager:     Michelle hboud, SASHD




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                  TABLE OFCONTENTS

Abbreviationsand Acronyms                                                                    ii

Credit and ProgramSummary                                                                    V


I. Introduction                                                                              1

11. Statusofthe SecondaryEducationSector                                                     4

111. The GovernmentsReformAgenda andBankandDonor Support                                     6
     The Medium-Term Macro Framework                                                         6
     The PRSP                                                                                8
     The PRSP and the Medium-Term Strategy for Education                                     9
     Aligning Bank and Donor Strategy with PRSP inEducation                                 12

IV. IDA'SSupportto the Medium-TermReformAgenda                                              13
     System Management                                                                      16
     Enhancing quality o f secondary school teachers                                        22
     Textbooks and Curriculum                                                               25

V.   The ProposedCredit                                                                     27
     Fiduciary Issues                                                                       28
     Environmental Aspects                                                                  31
     Monitoringand Evaluation                                                               32
     Poverty and Social Impacts                                                             33
     Lessons Learned and Benefits and Risks                                                 34

Annexes

Annex A         Letter o f Sector Policy                                                    38
Annex B         Matrix o f Reform Actions                                                   46
Annex C         Data Monitoring andPerformance Evaluation                                   53
Annex D         Enhancing Community Participation - Strengthening the Roles o f School
                Management Committees                                                       58
Annex E         ESDSC I11- Comparison o f Triggers with Prior Actions                       61
Annex F         Environment Screening Matrix                                                63
Annex G         Economic and Financial Analysis                                             66
Annex H         Good Practice Principles on Conditionality                                  75
Annex I Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                     76
Annex J         Bangladesh at a Glance                                                      78
Annex K         Bangladesh - IMF Staff Assessment for the World Bank                        80

MAP IBRDNo. 33368


                                          Task Team
 Subrata S. Dhar, Task Team Leader; Amit Dar, Lead Education Economist; Qaiser M. Khan, Lead
 HD Specialist: Nazmul Chaudhury,Economist: ,Kishor llprety?Sr. Counsel; VinayaSwaroop,Lead
 Economist: SandeepMahajan, Sr. Economist: Chau-Ching Shen, Senior Finance Oflcer;
 Burhanuddin Ahmed, Sr. Financial Management Specialist; Irajen Appasamy, Senior Operations
 W c e ; Syed RashedAI-Zayed, Research Associate; Hena Mukherjee, Consultant; Mokhlesur
 Rahman, Consultant; Bertha Mburugu, Program Assistant; and Navna Sultana, Program Assistant.

 Peer Reviewers: Eduardo VelezBustillo, Sector Manager, Education, LAC; Trina S. Haque, Lead
 Economist, AFTH3.




                                               iv


               THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
       THIRD EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT


                       Credit andProgramSummary

Borrower:     The People's Republic o f Bangladesh

Amount:       SDR 65.6 million (USSlOO million equivalent)

Terms:        Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-year grace period

Description:  This proposed credit will assist the Ministryo f Education (MoE) in
              undertaking the third phase o f a medium-termreform agenda. The credit
              attempts to address systemic governance issues inorder to raise the quality
              and cost-effectiveness o f service delivery, and improve equity o f accessto
              secondary education. The reformagenda focuses on:
                  Accountability and systemic improvement. Reforms inthese areas
                  includerigorous enforcement o f the criteria governing the establishment
                  o f institutions, and implementationo f institutionalmechanisms to link
                  school subventions to objective measures o f school performance.
                  School management committees are beingstrengthened with balanced
                  representation, free from political interference, and trained to give them
                  greater responsibility for school management and supervision.
                  Equity. Demand-side interventions to encourage rural girls to attend
                  secondary school are continuing. Means-testing mechanisms have been
                  piloted to better target these subsidies to the poor, both boys and girls.
                  Institutions are set up inunderserved areas. Measures are being taken
                  to support under-performing institutions particularly indisadvantaged
                  areas.
                  Administratiodcapacity Building -MoE's planning andpolicy-making
                  capacity is being strengthened with adequate institutional mechanism
                  for oversight o f a number o f implementation measures, and greater
                  implementation responsibility is beingdevolved to lower levels.
                  Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination. MoE is placing
                  significantly greater emphasis on program evaluation and monitoring to
                  guide policy and planning. The capacity o fthe BangladeshBureau o f
                  Educational and Information Statistics (BANBEIS) to provide reliable
                  quality data is being enhanced, with more effective data coordination
                  among various Government agencies. Public expenditure tracking
                  surveys and impact evaluation o fprograms are being undertaken.
                  Informationon standardized examination outcomes, school
                  performance, and program effectiveness i s beingdisseminated widely.
                  Teachers'Quality. An autonomous Non-Government Teacher
                  Registration and Certification Authority has beenestablished, which
                  now develops a roster o f pre-qualified and certified individuals eligible
                  to be hired as teachers by the School Management Committees (SMCs)
                  and Governing Bodies (GBs). Within NTRCA an institutional
                  mechanism with due authority and capacity is being set up to manage
                  secondary education teacher training and regulate training institutions.
                  Teacher training i s being undertaken inphases.

                  TextbookProduction and Curriculum Development. Textbook
                  productionhas been opened up to competition, which has reduced the



                                            V

                 opportunity o f rent-seeking and ensured timely distribution o fbetter
                 quality books to students. NCTB now oversees a transparent process o f
                 textbook evaluation and approval. A strengthened curriculum wing o f
                 NCTB is now fully focused on curriculum update and reforms.

Benefits:    Improvinggovernance has repeatedly beenidentified as the biggest
             development challenge facing Bangladesh and the greatest impediment to
             achieving its growthpotential and thus achieving the Millennium
             Development Goal (MDG) o f poverty reduction. The proposed credit will
             assist indeepening reforms aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery,
             andat the same time improving equity of accessto secondary education.
             Bytyingperformance inprovision ofeducationto incentives, and building
             greater accountability and community participation, these reforms will
             reduce rent-seeking opportunities, unduepolitical interference, and enhance
             cost-effectiveness.

             These reforms are intendedto leadto outcomes such as more equitable
             access to secondary education with more schools being set up in
             underserved areas, better trained and more effective teachers, reduced
             teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates, reduced
             secondary cycle completion time andunit cost per student. This will
             ultimately lead to a more skilled labor force attuned to the needs o f the
             Bangladeshi labor market, and able to compete inglobal markets.

Risks and    Keyrisks and mitigation strategies include:
Mitigation       Macroeconomic Risks: The main economic risk stems particularly
Strategy:        from the weak financial condition o f state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
                 especially those inthe energy sector. Sustained large lossesof the energy
                 sector SOEshave ledto a build-upo f outstanding liabilities at these
                 SOEs and have also exacerbated the financial fragilities of the
                 nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) that are directed to finance their
                 losses. The Bank has worked closely with GOBon this issue,
                 continually encouraging depoliticization o fprice adjustment, and
                 providing on-demand analytical notes to help inform GOB'Sdecision.
                 Authorities have already respondedby implementingpower tariff
                 increases inMarch 2007 and fuel price increases inApril 2007 to stem
                 losses at the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) and the
                 Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), respectively. Another
                 important source o f economic vulnerability is the persistently low tax
                 mobilization. To address this, authorities are stepping up
                 implementation o f the tax administration modernization program (being
                 supported by DFIDand IDA) along with legislative reforms to correct
                 tax policy distortions and strengthening o f customs administration.
                 Political Risks. While key stakeholders inthe Government are
                 committed to reforms, the sustainability o f the reform process put in
                 train by the Care Taker Government (CTG) will be linked to the
                 commitment o f any future government to the reform process as well as
                 the smooth return to democracy. Lessons o f experience show that so
                 far the successive governments have continued to implement ongoing
                 education programs and policies, and this trend continues rather more
                 forcefully with the Care-Taker Government and with stakeholder
                 support. I t will thus be difficult for vested interest groups to subvert
                 these reforms without meeting significant resistance from stakeholders.
                 On the political front, the bilateral development partners are taking the
                 lead inworking with domestic civic organizations and with the
                 government to help an early and smooth return to democracy. The



                                          vi

                 Bank is vigilant about the emerging political environment and inclose
                 contact with various actors.
                 Corruption. Inthe past, there were allegations o f corruption and
                 resources meant for education were sometimes siphoned off. This
                 reform package helps build greater transparency and openness inthe
                 system and ensure greater community participation. NTRCA's
                 screening mechanism has effaced malpractices inteacher recruitment,
                 at least for now. Transparent selection process for textbooks and their
                 competitive production have largely reduced rent-seeking intextbook
                 production.
                 Capacity Constraints. Cognizant o f its capacity constraints, MoE has
                 taken several measures, particularly to buildtechnical capacity for
                 planning, formulating policies, financing, setting quality standards,
                 assuring quality delivery, and monitoring and evaluation. The capacity
                 o f DSHE and BANBEIS is also being enhanced. Local oversight
                 committees have been formed in each o f the districts and upazillas to
                 monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure o f
                 information. School management committees are being strengthened to
                 give them greater responsibility for school management and
                 supervision. Moreover, M o E is following a comprehensive plan for
                 teacher training, which will hopefully leadto higher quality o f service
                 delivery for education.
                 Fiduciary Risks. A recent Review o f Institutional Arrangements for
                 Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement revealed
                 that Bangladesh's public expenditure institutions need to be
                 strengthened significantly. GOB has taken several steps to address the
                 weaknesses. Significant progress has been made over the last few years
                 to strengthen financial management andreduce fiduciary risks (e.g.,
                 Financial Management Reform Program), and implementation o f other
                 aspects o f the reform program described inthis Program Document. As
                 a part o f the review o f InstitutionalArrangements for public
                 expenditure, financial management and procurement, Bangladesh's
                 PFM system was rated against internationally accepted indicators
                 (PEFA). This provides a useful framework to track progress towards
                 improved PFM performance.
                 Financial risks. While there are concerns about the uncertain external
                 environment, the PRSP clearly demonstrates the Government's
                 commitment to maintaininga highlevel o f investment inthe education
                 sector. Recent dialogues with the CTG confirm the continuity o f the
                 commitment. This commitment has been further strengthened through
                 measures aimed at allocating resources more efficiently and reducing
                 leakages from the system. Furthermore, Bangladesh enjoys
                 considerable support from the donor community, whose commitment to
                 the education sector will remain high, given sustained reform efforts.

Estimated     SDR 65.6 million ($100 million equivalent) disbursed ina single tranche
Disbursement  upon credit effectiveness.


Sector Code:  Education
ProjectID     P102541
Number:




                                          vii


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT
   FORA PROPOSED THIRD EDUCATIONSECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
                                       CREDIT (ESDSC In)


                                           I.Introduction

1.       The proposedEducation Sector Development Support Credit I11(ESDSC 111),the thirdin
a series o fthree Development Policy Credits, aims to deepen and sustain Bangladesh's continued
reforms inthe education sector. The first credit was approved by the Board on August 29,2004
and the second on February 7,2006. The proposed third credit would help the Government build
on the previous two phases o f its reform agenda for the education sector, and move forward to
implementing the third set o f reforms inorder to deepen andconsolidate the gains.

2.       Bangladesh has recorded substantial progress inpoverty reduction -- about one
percentage point per year since 1990- that too inthe face o f extremely weak initial conditions,
continued political imbroglio, fragile institutionsand poor governance, frequent large-scale
destruction by natural calamities, andthe negative global image generated by these. Economic
growth has beenremarkable. The advent o f democracy inthe early 1990swas accompanied by
increased pace ineconomic reforms with greater macroeconomic stability, a trend towards trade
openness, and economic deregulation. Growth inGDPper head has increased from 1percent
duringthe 1980sto over 3 percent since the early 1990s: per capita growth has moved to aneven
higher trajectory o f 4 percent since FY03. Lately, growth has also been remarkably stable, with a
growth rate o f 6.7% for 2006: Bangladesh i s amongthe handful of countries that have sustained
positive per-capita growth ineachyear since the early 1990s.

3.       Bangladesh's political scenario has undergone unprecedentedchange over the past few
months. The new Caretaker Government (CTG) that came to power on January 11,2007, has
moved decisively to address the governance problems and aggressively carry forward the reform
agenda. The CTG's pronounced goal is to hold free, fair andcrediblenational elections. The
recent anti-corruption drives and efforts to improve governance fit in well with this objective.

4.       To create an environment for fair elections, the CTG has taken a number o fmeasures in
an effort to remove the alleged influence o f muscle power, black money and corruption on the
political process. Legal provisions on asset disclosure are being enforced. The Election
Commissionhas beenreconstituted. The code o f conduct for the candidates is being revised and
an ordinance has beenpassed to bar convictedpersons from contesting elections. The CTG i s in
the process o frevising the voter list which gave rise to considerable debate inthe past. Other
actions to strengthen governance include (a) adoption o frules relating to the Judicial Services
Commissionand amendmentsto the Code o f Criminal Procedureto separate thejudiciary from
the executive, and (b) reconstitutiono f the Anti-Corruption Commission, which is now
vigorously carrying out its activities. Initially, these actions, marked with courage and
determination, have earned CTG considerable applause from the citizens and international
community. As evident from the public moodreflected inthe media, the popular support will
continue ifthe actions are executed with political prudence and with a goal o f speedy transition to
democracy. Besides, the challenge before CTG i s to combine political reform with progress on a
few key strategic economic and sectoral reformsto lay the basis for sustained progress following
the transition to an elected government. The current environment provides an opportunity to
carry out major policy and institutional reforms unencumberedby resistance from vested
interests. The political unrest and uncertainties o f the past few months leadingto the new CTG




                                                    1

hadhurt the Bangladeshi economy. The CTGhas therefore requestedspeedy support from its
development partners, including the World Bank Group.

5.       Amidst many odds, progress on social measures inBangladeshhasbeen encouraging.
Gross primary enrollmentrates are around 90 percent, and the secondary enrollment rate has
more than doubled to 57 per cent (WB calculation from the latest data) since independence.
Bangladeshhas already met the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) on gender parityin
primaryand secondary schooling. The childmortalityratehas halved, and life expectancyhas
increasedby more than 15 years. The decline ininfant and child mortality rates, from 140 and 95
respectively in 1972 to about 60 and 30 in2000, was amongthe fastest inthe developingworld.

6.       However, the progress so far still leaves muchto be attained. Some 40 per cent of the
population i s still under the poverty line. The administrative data shows overall literacy rate at 65
per cent. Functional literacyis estimatedto be muchless. Completionrates are very low. The
nation-wide survival rate to Grade 5 i s 53 per cent. Barely one out o f 5 children entering Grade 6
completes Grade 10. Besides, quality o f education is a major concern at all levels. Child
malnutrition rates are among the highest inthe developingworld, and maternal mortality rates,

developingworld outside o f Sub-Saharan Afnca. Many o fthese problems are systemic --
albeit lower than inIndia, Pakistan, andNepal inthe region, remain among the highest inthe

attributable to, inter alia, weak governance. Corruption, though perceived to be receding under

that too overly centralized -- limits enforcement o fregulations and delivery o f essential services.
the Care Taker government, was untilrecently quite pervasive. Weak Government capacity -


7.       Bangladesh's development vision and strategic agenda for poverty reduction, outlined in
the Government's Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP),' recognize these critical challenges.
The PRSP was presentedto the Boards o f IDA andIMFinearly 2006, and the two Boards agreed
that itprovided a cohesive policy fiamework for implementinga pro-poor growth strategy. In
supporting the implementationo f the PRSP, and earlier the InterimPRSP, the Bank has provided
a series o f three budget support programmatic operations inthe form o f Development Support
Credits (DSCs). The Bank isnow working with the Government on the fourth credit which
purportsto help the Government maintain a good macroeconomic policy framework, widen trade
liberalization, strengthen the effectiveness and accountability o fthe national Board o f Revenue,
restructure National Commercial Banks (NCBs), implement an agreed Public Financial
Management Improvement Plan(PFMIP), streamline a transparent procurement process,
strengthen the Anti-Corruption Commission, and move toward appropriate and cost-effective
power generation, among other things.

8.       Educationdeserved special attention as the scope o freforms i s too large and deep to be
covered under an umbrella operation although the broader reformprograms supported under the
DSCs are complementary. Inview o f this, a separate interventionwas envisaged outside the
DSCs to cover the education issues intensively.

9.       Bangladesh needs substantial improvement inproviding quality education inorder to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and Bangladesh's Education for All (EFA)


1 Unlocking the Potential: National Strategyfor Accelerated Poverty Reduction, Government of People's
Republic o f Bangladesh, 2005. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) lays out an ambitious
agenda and government commitment to systemic reforms. To generatebroad-based growth andreduce
poverty, the PRSP focuses on: (a) employment generation, (b) nutrition, (c) maternal health, (d) quality o f
education, (e) sanitation and safe water, (f) criminal justice system, and (g) local governance. The PRSP
vision appropriately builds on the policy triangle o f growth, human development, and governance.


                                                        2

targets. The Government has launched several reformmeasures to address this issue. At the
primaryeducation level, 11development Partnersare working with the Ministryo fPrimaryand
Mass Education (MOPME) to support the PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram II(PEDP 11)
- a six-year sector-wide program aimed at strengthening educational access, quality and
efficiency. At the secondary level, the Ministry o f Education (MoE) has developed a medium-
term reform framework to improve quality o f education, and undertake policy measures needed to
achieve the target. At the tertiary level, the Government has worked with the national and
internationalexperts andprepared a 20-year higher education strategy which deals with, among
other things, the issues related to access, quality, governance, and funding. The Bank provided
technical assistance to this home-grown strategy. Based on the strategy, an Implementation
Committee at the Ministry o f Education i s working out different phases o f interventions.

10.      Insecondary andhigher secondary education, Bangladeshhasauniquesystemofpublic-
privatepartnership which combines public financing withprivateprovisiono feducation. The
system has a tremendous potentialinthe gvenenvironment ifproperly steered, but at the same time,
itwas subject to lack oftransparency andelite capture. To improvegovernance, the Government
beganimplementinga substantive policy reform agenda to ensure systemic improvement, quality
and relevance o f secondary education. This was supported by the World Bankthrough two
programmatic Education Sector Development Support Creditswhich focused on (i)        greater
transparency inthe use and allocationofresources, tyingresource allocationto performance and
accountability andgreater stakeholder participation; (ii)  streamlining the teacher recruitment
process based on agreed criteria and standards to make it more transparent andto ensure the
selection ofbest candidates as teachers free from all kindso f influences; and (iii) enhancing
competition intextbook production andpublishing and improvingrelevance o f the curricula.

11.      The Governmenthas successfully implemented the first two phases o fthe reforms. As
regards systemic improvement, the Governmenthas linked financing o finstitutionsto performance,
leading to the suspension o fgovernment subsidies to the worst performinginstitutions. The
composition o f schoolmanagement committeeshas beenreformulatedto ensure greater community
voices, particularly o fthe women members o fthe communities, inmonitoringinstitutions' activities.
The intimidatingpresence o fpolitical figures on a hugenumber o fcommittees inthepast was
detrimental to genuine community participation andto oppositions to politicallymotivated decisions.
N o w this has beencurbedthrough a policy enactment limitingthe number o finstitutions one can
serve on the committees. While implementation o fthis policy has stumbledinmany casesbecause
o fthe problems inthe largerpolitical environment, incremental improvements are already visible
leadingto better management o fthe institutions. As regards financial management system, a number
o fmeasures havebeentakeninorder to enhance transparency andaccountability inthe spendingand
allocation o fresources. Widespread dissemination o finformationabout performance o finstitutions,
comparison o finstitutions' performances, incentives for better performanceandsupport for those
laggingbehindbecauseo fvarious social reasons are payingtheir due dividends.

12.      The government has established a Non-Government Teacher Registration andCertification
Authority (NTRCA) which administers a testing and certification process for those who have the
minimumrequiredqualifications andaspiretobe secondary schoolteachers. NTRCAcreatesapool
o fpotential teachers from which SMCs recruit teachers for their respective schools following a
rigorous process. NTRCA has already administeredtwo rounds o ftests withthe help o fthe
educationboards andother relevant agencies since late 2005. This has already ledto better
recruitment o f qualified teachers andreduction inrent-seeking andcollusion inthe hiringo fteachers.

13.      The NationalCurriculum andTextbook Board (NCTB), long embroiledinundefinedwork
between textbook production andcurriculumreview andrevision, hasnowbeen streamlined along


                                                   3

its two important functions. The processo ftextbook selection, productionandpublication-the
oversight function ofthe textbook wing -- hasbeenmadetransparentandcompetitive which has led
to areduction incollusion andrent seekinginthe process oftextbook production. The curriculum
wing-unencumberedbyitspreviouslyundefinedroleintextbook production-now fully focuses on
curriculumrelatedissues.

14.      The positive impact ofthese reforminitiatives i s alreadyvisible. Passratesinthe Grade 10
standardizedexaminationsrose from 39.91per cent in2003 to 59.47 per cent in2006. Similarly,
passrates for HSC examinationsrose from 38.43 per cent to 63.92 per cent duringthe same period.
A total of 368 oftheworst performinginstitutions hadtheir subsidies suspendedfollowing
admonition to some 1300institutions for improvement within aperiodoftwo years. The suspension
of subventioncomes only after careful considerationofthe circumstances. For example, the
Government i s loolunginto another 208 poorlyperforminginstitutions, some ofwhich are inremote
anddisadvantagedareas, to seewhat kindof supportthey needto improvetheirperformance. The
messageis clear that the Government is seriousabout tymg subvention to performance,but at the
same time, cautiousnot to penalize the schools which face real constraint particularly in
disadvantagedcommunities. A three year cycle hasbeencompletedfor reconstituting all school
managementcommitteesbasedon the newrules enshriningmore communityparticipation andless
political interference. Finally, a circular ofthe Care-Taker Government inNovember 2006 to
eliminate politicalelementsfrom the SMCs andGBswas a clincher. All textbooks for grades 6-12
were publishedandproducedusingtransparentcriteria andina competitive manner.

15.      Giventheprogressmade, the Governmenthasrequestedthe Bankfor supportindeepening
the reform agendathrough implementingthe thirdphaseofreforms. This credit willprovide
balance ofpayments support to the Government to leveragereforms aimed at raisingthe quality
and cost-effectiveness o f service delivery, while at the sametime, improving equity o f access.


                          II.Statusof theSecondaryEducationSector

16.      Education programs are organized under two ministries-the Ministryo f Primary and
Mass Educationandthe Ministryo f Education-inkeepingwith the importance attachedto
education inBangladesh. The Ministry of Education (MoE) manages secondary, vocational and
tertiary education. The secondary education system comprises three maintypes of schools: (i)
government schools which are entirely publicly financed, (ii)   non-government schools which
receive subvention to support 95 per cent teacher salaries, and (iii) government recognized
religious schools (madrashas) which also receive subvention. Outside this system, there are many
religious schools knownas Qawmimadrashas which receiveno support from the Government.
The actual number o f Qawmi madrashas and the number of students inthese madrashas are not
known. Withinthe recognized secondary education system, some 98 percent of the secondary
school pupilsattend non-government schools and madrashaswhich comprise 99 percent of the
secondary schools/madrashasinBangladesh (BANBEIS, 2005). Logically, the Government
needsto streamline non-government provision o f services insecondary education, take steps to
improve quality o f the services and put inplace a systemof accountability o f the private
providers, more so as they receive public funding for the services. This unique public-private
partnership has brought about some significant achievements, buthas also faced critical
challenges.




                                                   4

Somekey achievements:
        Expansion of SecondaryEducation. Community initiatives, expansion o fthe primary
        education base and the possibility o fpublic funding, buttressedby local and political
        patronage, contributed to a rapid growth inthe number o fnon-government schools all
        over Bangladesh over the past three decades. This catalyzed a remarkable growth in
        secondary school enrollment -- three times since 1980 to over nine million (BANBEIS,
        2005).
        Genderparity. Duringthis period female enrollment has increased seven-fold to over
        five million, leadingto gender parity insecondary education (girls now constitute more
        than 52 percent o f secondary enrollments), mainly owing to the female stipend programs
        undertaken by the Government to incentivize girls' education. The Female Secondary
        Stipends (FSS) programprovides stipends and tuition waivers to female students
        throughout the country except infour major metropolitan areas - conditional upon
        maintaining regular attendance, passing grades, and remainingunmarried while in
        secondary school.

17.     Challenges:
        Access is still an issue:With 57 percent secondary school enrollment, the country still has
        to go a long way inensuring access for all children to secondary education. The situation
        will be exacerbated byincreasedprimaryschool completion as aresult o frobust on-
        going intervention at the primarylevel.
        Poor quality of education: While access to secondary education has increased
        considerably, lack o f systemic preparation to deal with the rapid expansion has caused
        quality to suffer. Absence of qualified teachers innon-government schools, inadequate

        books, -- scarce andofpoor quality -- are some o f the impediments to dispensing quality
        community supervision, often subdued by various interferences, late distribution o f

        educational services. However, it i s also important to recognize that the pace o fprogress
        at the secondary level will largely dependon progress at the primarylevel and success in
        raising quality andcompletion rates at the elementary level.
        Encouraging developmentyet poor outcomes: Though pass rates at the standardized
        examinations at grade 10 and grade 12have increased significantly inlast five years,
        overall internal efficiency o fthe sector still remains a concern. At SSC level (grade lo),
        the pass rate increased from 40 percent in2003 to 59 percent in2006. Similarly, the pass
        rate at the HSC level (Grade 12) also increased substantially from 38 percent to 64
        percent duringthis period. However, completion rate at the secondary level i s still as low
        as 20 percent (BANBEIS, 2005). The drop out rate increases sharply after grade 8 -
        about 32 and 48 percent at grades 9 and 10respectively compared to 12 percent at grade
        8. This is attributable to the fact that while lower secondary school exams are school-
        based exams, upper secondary school exams are standardized at the national level -
        hence making it difficult to mask deficiencies inthe quality o f schooling.
        Thepoor were left out. The poor segments of the population are systematically lagging
        behind interms o f enrolment at the secondary level as they cannot afford the (direct and
        indirect) expenses o f secondary schooling. According to the latest World Bank study,
        while GERs for grades 6-10 have risento 57 percent overall, they are at 41 percent for
        the poor (coming from the bottom 60 percent of the households).

18.     The Government, through its reform initiatives in secondary education, i s combating
these problems, particularly the built-inbiases against better outcomes andequitable access.
Many o f the systemic hindrances are being removed. More effective governance, accountability
and community oversight at the school level are being institutionalized. The system i s now being      ,




                                                  5

    putinplace to monitor performance, which is now tied to public fundingbothfrom the
    Government and from the more empowered communities. Actions are under way inthree broad
    areas: system management; streamlininga transparent teacher recruitmentprocess; and improving
    textbooks and curriculum. These are discussed at length in Section IV.


              III.TheGovernment'sReform Agenda andBankandDonorSupport

    TheMedium-TermMacro Framework

    19.     Economic growth remains strong. The economy grew by 6.7 percent inFY06, the
    highest rate inover two decades and the third consecutive year o f at least 6 percent growth
    (Table 1). Despite several months o fpolitical turmoil, forecast suggests 6.7 percent growth in
    FY07. Growth has been broad-based, cutting across all major economic sectors and benefiting
    from robust demand inboth domestic and export markets. The manufacturing sector grew at an
    impressive 10.4 percent inFY06, its strongest performance inover a decade. Garment exports,
    which account for about 75 percent o f manufacturingexports, grew by 23 percent (innominal
    dollar terms) inFY06. This was despite enhanced competition from other low-cost producers due
    after the dismantlingo f the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (ATC) on January 1,2005.
    Construction, fueled by strong manufacturing growth as well as large amounts o fremittance
    inflows, grew by an estimated 8.4 percent, maintainingits 8 pluspercent growth record since
    FY94. Remittances through formal channels were recorded at nearly US$5 billion, which is
    about 8 percent of GDP and halfofmerchandize exports, compared with US$1.9 billion inFYO1.
                                 Table 1: SummaryMacroeconomicIndicators
                                                                  Actual                       Projections
Indicators                               FY02      N O 3    FY04     FY05      N O 6   N O 7  FY08    N O 9
Output andPrices                                                Annual percentage changes
Real GDP Growth                           4.4       5.3       6.3      6.0      6.7     6.7    7.0     7.0
CPI                                       2.8       4.4       5.8      6.5      7.2     7.2    6.5     5.0
ExternalOutlook
Exports (billion US$)                     6.0       6.5       7.0      8.6      10.4    12.5   15.0    17.1
   Annual % change                        4.6       9.5       15.8    23.2      21.6    19.9   19.9    14.1
Imports (billion US$)                    (7.7)     (8.7)     (9.8)   (11.9)    (13.3)  (16.0) (19.3)  (21.8)
   Annual % change                       (2.5)     (13.1)    (13)    (20.6)    (12.1)  (20.0) (21.2)  (12.7)
Current account balance ("! of GDP)       0.5       0.1       -0.5    -0.9      0.6     0.5    0.2     -0.1
Gross official reserves (billion US$)     1.5       2.5       2.7      2.9      3.5     5.0    5.7     6.9
 Inmonths ofGNFSimports                   1.8       2.9       2.8      2.5      2.7     3.0    2.7     3.2
PublicFinance                                                        Percent of GDP
Total Revenue                             10.1      10.3      10.2    10.5      10.6   10.4   10.6     11.0
Total Expenditures                        14.8      13.7      13.3    13.8      13.8   13.8   15.8     14.3
Overall balance (excluding grants)        -4.6      -3.4      -3.1    -3.3      -3.2   -3.5   -5.2     -3.2
Domestic financing"                       2.5       1.2       1.8      1.7      2.1     2.3   3.7      1.7
Public debt                               53.0      51.1     48.7     47.5     46.8    44.3   43.9     42.2
Moneyand Credit                                               End ofyear; percentage change
Net Domestic assets                       11.6      12.2      13.5    17.1      19.6   13.4   14.2     16.0
Private sector                            13.6      12.6     17.5     17.0      18.3   15.1   14.5     14.2
Broadmonev(M2)                            16.1      15.6     13.8     16.7      19.3   17.5   15.0     17.7
Source: IMF and GOB.
GNFS = Goods and nonfactor services.
1/ Includes estimated privatizationreceipts of 0.2 percent of GDP in FY07


                                                         6

20.       Macroeconomic stability has been largely maintained. The fiscal, monetary, and external
indicators have remainedwithin the thresholds o fthe macroeconomic framework agreed with the
IMFunder the PRGFprogram, althoughthere havebeen some temporary deviations andrevenue
mobilization has persistently fallen short o fits targets. This i s quite impressive, inlight o f the
pressures emanating from sustained highglobal oil prices andrising food costs. Recognizing
this, the IMF's ExecutiveBoardapprovedthe fifthandpenultimatereview o fthe PRGFin
October 2006.

21.       Robust performances o f exports andremittances have further strengthened the external
sector. This, together with the floating exchange regime that was adopted inM a y 2003, has
allowed BangladeshBank to stabilize foreign exchange markets and build-upinternational
reserves to more comfortable levels. Ina significant turnaround, the current account balance
moved from a US$518 million deficit inFY05 to a US$572 million (0.9 percent o f GDP) surplus
inFY06. Inadditionto stronggrowth o fexports (22 percent) andremittances(25 percent), this
was also enabledby a slowdown inimport growth (10 percent), as authorities further tightened
monetary management andrefrained from interveningincurrency markets to prevent
depreciation o f the taka. The exchange rate has currently stabilized at just under Tk.70/US$, after
depreciating against the U S dollar from Tk 63.7/$ on June 30,2005, to Tk 72.0/$ inNovember,
2006. Despite a sharp decline inthe capital and financial account balance because o frepayments
o f trade credits (mostly oil importrelated), the balance-of-payments account recorded a surplus in
FY06. This, inturn,allowed the foreign exchange reserves to buildup to US$3.4 billion by end-
FY06. More recently, as o f early March, 2007, the reserve position hadreached an all-time
record level ofUS$4 billion (more than 3 months o f imports cover).

22.       Fiscal discipline was maintainedwith the budget deficit kept at 3.3 percent o f GDP in
FY06. This was the fourth straight year inwhich the deficit to GDP ratio was kept under 4
percent. Slower than programmedimplementationo fthe Annual Development Program (ADP),
incommonwithpreviousbudgets, causedthebudget deficit to GDPratioto undershoot the
programmed4.0 percent. Tax revenues increasedbyjust 13 percent, well short o fthe 19percent
target. As a ratio o f GDP, tax revenues remainedunchanged at 8.1 percent -one o f the lowest
collectionrates inthe world. A redeeming factor was the sharp increases indomestic VAT and
income tax collections, bothbenefiting from the good performance o f the recently set up large
taxpayers unit (LTUs). But these gains were erased by a decline incustoms revenues, as
authorities were unable to improve efficiency incustoms administration. . A plethora o ftax
exemptions that are inplace prevented even more robust responses o f the income tax andVAT.
Domestic financing o f the deficit was kept at 2 percent o f GDP, allowing public debt to GDP
ratio to fall for the fourth straight year, from 53 percent inFY03 to 47 percent. However, the
budget deficit masks the overall fiscal situation because there are several state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) with deteriorating financial situation.

23.       The main source o f risk to medium- to long-term fiscal sustainability i s the financial
losses o f SOEs, especially those inthe energy sector, although recent measures by GOBhave
sought to contain these. The losses o f the energy sector SOEs for FY06 are estimated at about Tk
45 billion (US$670 million), or 1.1percent o f GDP. These losses stood at Tk 27 billion (0.7
percent o f GDP) inFY05, andjust Tk 6 billion in FY04. The increase in losses was mainly due
to underpricingo f energy productsindomestic markets. The BangladeshPetroleumCorporation
(BPC) alone accounted for more than 80 percent o f the losses because o f inadequatepass-through
o f the higher global energy prices to domestic consumers, althoughthis was corrected by the fuel
price adjustment recently announced by the CTG. Furthermore, failure to adjust electricity tariffs
between September 2003 andMarch2007 caused losses at the Power Development Board to soar
from Tk 1.2 billion inFY04 to an estimated Tk 9.9 billion (0.2 percent o f GDP) inFY06. The



                                                    7

March2007 increase o f 5 percent on urban electricity retail supply and 10percent on bulk supply
is expected to lower annual BPDB losses by about Tk 3.5 billion. Furthermore, recent efforts to
recover accounts receivables o fpower utilities and to significantly reduce BPDB's payment
arrears to Independent Power Producers (IPPs) through budgetary transfers have also
strengthened the power sector's financial situation. Biman, the national airlines, and Bangladesh
Chemical Industries Corporation(BCIC), the public sector chemicals corporation, were the other
main loss-makers. To tackle the growing problem inBiman, the Government i s considering
divestiture through a strategic partner or other appropriate means. Ithas also sought technical
assistance from the Bank and other development partners to support this move.

24.      The need to tackle the large SOE losses and outstanding liabilities and continued
sluggishness o frevenuemobilization are puttinga strain on the fiscal situation, thereby
constraining the GOB'Sability to finance its strategic developmental priorities such as health,
education, and infrastructure.

25.      To address these issues, the Government i s implementingan ambitious macro reform
agenda, supported by the DSC N operation. Reforms are aimed at: (a) strengthening core
governance functions, with emphasis on reforms inpublic procurement, budget formulation and
budget execution, tax administration, andpublic administration; and (b) improving the investment
climate, by maintaining macroeconomic stability, deepening domestic deregulation andtrade
liberalization, and strengthening performance o f the banking and energy sectors ando f SOEs.'

26.      Insum, Bangladesh'smacroeconomicmanagementhasbeenrelativelysound, enabling
strong economic growth while partially taming inflationary pressures. Looking ahead, authorities
would be well served by further containing inflation with continuedmonetary discipline, and
measures to ease food supply chains, addressingthe emerging fiscal stressesby adjusting energy
prices to eliminate SOE losses anddeepening the reform efforts to strengthen revenue
mobilization. The CTGhas acknowledged these issues andi s taking a numbero f corrective
policy actions

ThePRSP

27.      The Government has laid out its medium-term development framework inits Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), titled "Unlocking the Potential: National Strategy for
Accelerated Poverty Reduction." The PRSP is a completely homegrown document fully owned
bythe Government andpreparedthrough a comprehensive participatoryprocess which included
consultations at the regional levels with representations from the whole spectrum o f Bangladesh
society.

28.      The mainnational level development goals set by the PRSP are: (i)       employment
generation; (ii) nutrition; (ii)maternal health; (iv) quality education (at primary, secondary, and
tertiary levels); (v) sanitation and safe water; (vi) criminaljustice; and (vii) local governance. In
setting these goals, it acknowledges Bangladesh's encouraging development record but cautions
against complacency and slippages inareas where progress has been good. Espousing a broad
definition o fpoverty, including humandeprivations inincome, food security, quality o f life, and
vulnerability, the PRSP seeks to address it through a strategically prioritized policy framework
that has pro-poor growth, humandevelopment, and governance as its mainpillars. It aims to



  For more information on the reforms supportedby the DSC, please refer to Report No. 39595-BD
(Bangladesh Development Support Credit IV) which will be discussed at the Boardon M a y 29,2007.


                                                    8

unlock the full potential o f the country through a sensible mix of public action, private initiatives,
and community mobilization.

29.     The new Care-Taker Governmenthas expressed full commitment to implementing the
PRSP with particular focus on the core governance issues and the humandevelopment measures.

ThePRSP and theMedium-Term Strategyfor Education

30.     Educationfigures importantly inthe PRSP. Inkeepingwith the PRSP, bothMoPME and
M o E have developed and started implementing their medium-term strategies for primaryand
secondary education respectively. The focus o f the strategies i s on enhancing the quality of
education, ensuring equitable access andbest utilization o f their scarce resources. The strategies
provide policy directions, specify targets, and recommendactions required to attain these targets.

31.     Onthe primaryeducation side, MoPME, supported by 11development partners including
IDA(withADB as the leaddevelopment partner), beganimplementingthe PrimaryEducation
Development Program-PEDPI1in2004. This program represents MoPME's vision for primary
education till 2009 andprovides a policy framework and implementationplan for the
development o fprimaryeducation. PEDP II's focus i s on implementing strategies to improve the
quality o fprimaryeducation as well as enhancing access for the disadvantaged and excluded.
The specific objectives o f the program are to: (a) improve the quality o fteaching andlearning,
and enhance student achievement; (b) enhance accessto schooling for the disadvantaged and
provide incentives to teachers to perform better; (c) strengthen planningandmanagement o f
primaryeducation; and(d) establish anation-wide monitoring andevaluation system. While
PEDP 11i s still not fully comprehensive, the Government has begunworkmg closely with
communities andNGOsto assist the setting up o f community schools inparticularly
disadvantaged areas to provide access to educational opportunities for those hardto reach,
through a number of initiatives including the IDNSDC-supported Reaching out o f School
Children (ROSC) project.

32.     At the tertiary level, academics from public andprivateuniversities andrepresentatives
from various sections o fBangladesh civil society prepared, on behalf o fthe Government, a 20-
year strategy for higher education in2006, inkeeping with its PRSP goals and focusing
particularly on quality, governance, financing, research and science and ICT education. The
Government is inthe process of implementingthis strategy ina phased manner.

33.     Insecondary education, the MoEconveneda 51-member expert committee in200213 to
recommend areas for reform inthe sector. The committee's recommendations were aimed at
establishing a cost-effective, highquality and equitable education system through governance
reforms. To flesh out these recommendations, M o E commissioned in-depth studies inselected
areas. Based on this information, as well as relevant work undertakenjointly with development
partners, M o E drafted its medium-term framework and finalized after extensive country-wide
consultation with various stakeholders and actors. Over the past years, this framework has been
updatedregularly, inkeepingwith the emergingrealities and opportunities inthe secondary
education sub-sector, particularly inview o f the emphasis laid out inthe PRSP which has been
strongly endorsed by successive governments.

34.     Recognizingthat a major bottleneck to improving delivery o f secondary education has
been poor governance, the framework lays emphasis on reforms aimed at tackling this issue. It
focuses on improving accountability and oversight, and ensuring greater transparency inthe
management of the sector along with the use and allocationo fresources tied to better outcomes.


                                                  9

 Some o f the main elements o f this strategy are highlighted inBox l3 discussed inthe
                                                                            and
 following sections.

 35.      The critical constraint to improving the system i s not one o fresources. Earlier
 simulations, done in2003, on the costs o f implementingreformsto enhance quality and
 governance o f the system (while increasing enrollments), showed that by 2008/9,the system
 required a total investment o f about $616 million (Table 2). The actual budgets over the past
 years show a positive trend o f increased allocation for secondary education already surpassing in
 2006 the needed allocationin2008/9 (last row o fTable 2). Therefore, financial sustainability i s
 not likely to be an issue. However, it is important that strategies and reforms are inplace to
 enhance cost-effective resource utilization.

   Table 2: SecondaryEducationExpenditureForecasts(2003-2009) and Actual Budgetsin
                                             US%millions
                                                      200314    200415    200516    200617 200718 200819
Total secondary education budget -base case
scenario                                               529        543      565        584   .   607       631
Resource Requirements (based on simulations)           520        539      558        577       596       616
Actual Budget for Secondary Education                  524        597      642




 'TheMedium   TermPrioritiesfor TheDevelopment of Secondary and Higher Education in Bangladesh. Ministry of
 Education, Governmentof Bangladesh(2003).


                                                    10

                                                 Box 1: MoE's ReformAgenda 2003-08 -
Someofthe key elements ofMoE's proposedreformagendaare summarizedhere. They includereformsthat have alreadybeenundertakeninthe
inthe threephases, andreformsthat are still underway.

System Management

Reform actionscompleted:
  Establishment/equity Finalizing criteriagoverningthe establishment andregistrationof institutions, Contractingout evaluationofpotentialnew
                        -
  institutionsto privateproviders;establishingnew schools inunderservedareas, piloting means-basedstipend schemes
  Financing-Rigorousenforcementof amendedMPO criteria;
  AdministrafiordCapacityBuilding,DevolutionandParticipation-Setting up districthpazilla committees; amendingcompositionof SMCs/GBs
  to ensuregreater communityparticipation; SMC/GBs electedusingrevisedrules; ridding SMCs/GBsofall political influences
   Financial Management Improving financialmanagement at the ministry level through improvedcontrolsand increasedattentionto
                          -
  reconciliationandfollow up on auditqueriesandPAC recommendations
  Environment Guidelines: EnvironmentGuidelinesfor schoolconstructionunderthe overallEnvironmentManagementFrameworkprepared


Reforms Underway:
  Establishment/equrty-Actions to raiseenrollmentby 50% inunderservedareas; undertakingschoolmappingexerciseandexpendituretracking
  survey, outcomesto be usedby policymakersto improvepolicies/programs;
  Financing- DesigningandImplementinggrants-basedfinancingfor secondarylevel institutions; establishmentofNationalVocationalTraining
  Board(NVTB) andtrainingfundto finance well performingtraining institutions; financingofpublic vocationalinstitutionslinkedto
  performanceinexaminations;
  AdministratiodCapacityBuilding,DevolutionandParticipation Upgradingofplanningcapacity at all levels.
  Monitoring and Evaluation Instituting expendituretrackingsurveysandstipend evaluations; systematizing schoolmappingexerciseundertaken
                              -                                  -

  by BANBEIS; systematizing self-reportingofdatafrom schools; continuingdisseminationof informationon schoolquality, pilotingstudent
  assessmentsat grades8 and 12; andthird partyprogrammonitoringandevaluation..     .
  Monitoring andEvaluation Rolling out studentassessment systemthroughoutthe countryfor grades 8 and 12.
                              -
 AdministratiodCapacityBuilding,DevolutionandParticipation Finalizingactionplanfor devolutionof functionsto districtdupazillas; 100%
                                                                 -
  of SMCs electedusingrevisedrules;


Teacher Effectiveness
Reform actions completed:
  Employment Enactmentandestablishmentof autonomousnon-governmentTeacherRegistrationandCertificationAuthority; MakingNTRCA
               -
  fully functional; approval ofpensionschemefor teachers, second certificationexaminationsfor potentialteachers completed, newpotential
  teachers testedby NTRCA; ensuringthat all newteachershavebeentestedby TeacherRegistrationandCertificationAuthority, Instituting
  incentiveschemefor teachers; streamliningteacher recruitment process makingit immunefrom rent-seekingand nepotism
  Teacher Training-Ensuringacommonset of standards for teachers inpublic andprivateinstitutions, Finalizing five year planfor teacher
  trainingfor in-serviceteachers as well as new teachers;

Reforms Underway:
  Teacher training: Establishing aNationalCouncilfor Teacher Educationto coordinatein-serviceteacher training

 Employment:Providingright incentivesfor potentialteachers inunder-servedandremoteareas
  Teacher Training-Certifying all eligibleteachertraining institutionsbasedon agreed criteriaandtrainingand certifying 60% untrainedteachers
 now within the system.

Curriculum and Textbook Reforms
Reform actions completed:
 NCTB- Developingactionplanfor NCTB restructuringand institutingfunctional separationof its two wings;
  Textbookapprovalandprivatization -Institutingtransparentcriteriafor manuscriptevaluation; openinguptextbookproductionfor grades 6-8 to
 competition. 100%oftextbookproductionfor grades 6-10 producedcompetitively.
 Curriculumwing-Curriculumwing ofNCTB exclusively focusingon curriculum issues;

Actions Underway:
 NCTB -Revision of curriculumto makeit more relevant;
 Textbooks-Continuingcompetitiveproductionoftextbooks




                                                                    11

Aligning Bank and Donor Strategy with PRSP in Education

Bank Lending andNon-Lending Program

36.       The Bank's assistance ineducation has strictly followed Government priorities as laid out
inthe PRSP, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, andcomplementaritieswith other donors.
Puttinggovernance at center stage, the WorldBank Group's mostrecent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS)4 aligns itself with the Poverty Reduction Strategy. Inparticular, the CAS, which
i s for the FY06-09 period, emphasizes empowering thepoor as one o f the two pillars. The Bank
Group vows to continue to buildon Bangladesh's impressive social gains by helping the
Government meet the MDGs related to humandevelopment inorder to realize its aspiration to
reduce poverty substantially within a generation. The CAS states that notwithstanding the
impressive gains ineducation, especially inaccess, improving quality remains a critical challenge
-andshouldbethefocusoftheBank's assistancetoBangladesh. Italsoproposestoassistin
improving the quality and efficiency o f service provision to the poor by strengthening sector
governance, and enhancing voice andparticipation.

37.       Inkeepingwith the CAS objectives, currently the Bankis supporting GOBinfive
operations -Primary Education DevelopmentProgram 11,Post Literacy and Continuing
EducationI,   Reaching Out o f School Children Project, Female Secondary School Assistance
Project 11, andthe series o f Education Sector Development Support Credits.

38.       The Bank's lendingprogram has been based on extensive analytical work, mostly done
by the Bank itself. A comprehensive education sector review conductedin2000provided sound
understandingo f issues facing the education sector and strateges to enhance education q ~ a l i t y . ~
Policy notes were prepared inareas such as improving secondary education quality, teacher
effectiveness, textbook and curriculum policy, vocational education and training reform, andlinks
between secondary andhigher education. Furthermore, the Bankhas also provided technical
assistance to the sector to conduct rigorous impact evaluations o f its programs - especially
stipend programs at the secondary levels andthirdparty evaluation o f a number o freform
measures. Another technical assistance helpedthe Government prepare its higher education
strategy. Recent analysis o f the technical andvocational education and training system,
supported by the Bank, is likely to be the basis for the Bank's future support inthis area. The
World Bank also undertook a Public ExpenditureReview and a Poverty Assessment in2002,
which highlighted constraints to improving access to and quality o f education and identified
policy priorities for various sub-sectors.6 These analytical studies informed the issues highlighted
inSection I1above andhasbeenusedbyMoE for the development o fitsMediumTerm
Framework.

39.       Analytical work has also been done to develop sound environmental policies and
guidelines that are also applicable to the education sector. A Country Environmental Analysis
(CEA) wasjointly produced by the Ministry o f Environment and Forest (MoEF) and World Bank
in2005. The CEA focuses onimproving the healthofthepoor, ensuringthe sustainability o fthe


  Country Assistance Strategy for the PeopleS Republic of Bangladesh - FY06-09, Report No. 35193, The
WorldBank, 2006.
  BangladeshEducation Sector Review: VolumesI-III.World Bank (2000).
  BangladeshPublic ExpenditureReview. World Bank (2002) andPoverty in Bangladesh: Buildingon Progress.
World Bank(2002). The World Bank is also currentlyinthe process of undertakinganew povertyassessmentand
Public ExpenditureReviewwhich will inform ftrtherpolicy dialogueandreforms inthe educationsector.


                                                     12

natural resources on which they depend, and strengthening institutions for environmental
management. The CEA also examines the actions necessary to strengthen environmental
management, and identifies buildingthe capacity o f the Department o f Environment (DOE)as
essential to better control o fthe rapidly escalating urban and industrial environmental challenges.
Higher priorityneeds to be given to implementation o fthe DoE's Strategic Plan, which focuses
both on improving governance through increasedtransparency inenvironmental decision-making,
and on providing resources to expand DoE's capacity once its quality has improved.

Collaborationwith Other Donors

40.      The Bank has continuedto work inclose partnership with other development partners in
support o fthe education sector inBangladesh. On the primaryside, many development partners'
are working collaboratively with GOBinimplementing PEDP 11.

41.      Insecondary education, assistance from other development partnersbuttresses smooth
implementationo fthe Government's reformprogram. IDA's technical and programmatic credit
support to the reformprogram is reinforced through the support provided by ADB andCIDA who
are implementinginvestment operations focused on teacher development andtraining, and
curriculum development. Inaddition the EUprovided support for teacher training and NORAD
for the secondary stipend program. These operations implement critical interventions proposed
under the medium-term reform agenda o f the government and synergze with the reforms
supportedby IDA under the series o fprogrammatic education sector credits.

42.      IDA's program o f support has also been informed by analytical work on secondary and
vocational education conductedby other donor agencies (e.g. JICA, EU, DFIDandADB). For
example, the public expenditure tracking bothinprimaryand secondary education supported by
DflD,hasbeen animportant source ofinformationbothfor the Government andIDAto point to
the systemic governance issues inrelation to the use o fresources.


                  IV. IDA's Support to theMedium-Term Reform Agenda

43.      The key objective o f IDA's support has been to assist MoE inimplemen?ing substantive
policy reforms to enhance governance and improve the quality andrelevance of secondary
education. Three key pillars o f IDA'S support to the Government's reformprogram are inthe
areas o f system management, teacher effectiveness, and curriculum andtextbooks. The reforms
initiated under this program are consonant with the reforms o f the broader DSC series which
focuses on actions that improve overall governance, stimulate economic growth and reduce
poverty.

44.      A number o fpolicyreform measures supported byESDSC Iand ESDSC I1havehada
positive impact on improving governance and accountability (see Table 3 and Table 4).

45.      A critical underlyingreasonfor the positive impact is the Government's commitment to
the reform program andtheir successful implementationo f the program. As seen inAnnex E-
almost all the prior actions for the proposed operation are similar to the triggersproposed at the
time ESDSC I1went to Board in2006. This i s even more impressive given the challenging
political environment inlate 2006/early 2007. Thus, for example, a means tested stipend program

'Thedevelopmentpartnerssupporting  GOBinPEDPI1include-ADB (leaddevelopmentpartner), AUSAID, CIDA,
DfID, EU, IDA, JICA, theNetherlands,NORAD, SIDA, andUNICEF.


                                                   13

    has been evaluated and the framework for a national approach i s being designed, school
    eligibility to receive subventions i s being conducted ina transparent manner, teacher recruitment
    i s beingundertaken ina transparent manner, and textbooks are being produced competitively.
    Delays inachievement o f two triggers have been due to sound technical reasons and progress on
    achievingthese i s well underway.


Area                                                                             InitialImpact
Improving System Mi zgement.       ..ReformActions
Transparency in          o MoE links subventions for        o Subventions of 368 ofworse performinginstitutions
financing o f               schools (MPO system) to            suspended in2005 and 2006.
subventions                 Performance instandardized      o 2608 schools which showed a significant
                            examinations.                      improvement inperformance inSSC (grade 10)
                                                               examinations, as comparedto previous year,
                                                               received financial incentive awards.
                                                            o Passrates inSSC examrose to 59% in2006 from a
                                                               baseline o f 40% in2003. Pass rates inHSC
                                                               examinations rose to 64% in2006 from a baseline
                                                               o f 38% in2003.
Enhanced equity in       o Identify `overserved' and        o Nosubventions providedto any new schools being
access                      `underserved' upazilas and         established in 115 `overserved' upazilas
                            provide no subventions to new   o Secondary-level institutions established in25
                            schools being established in       underservedupazilas with GOBsupport.
                            `overserved' upazilas           o Means-tested stipendprogrampilotedin404
                                                               schools.
                                                            o 27% ofpublic resources targetedto the poor as
                                                               against a baseline o f 24% in2003.
Transparency in          o Contract out task of evaluating  o Allnine educationboardshave huedcompetitively
establishmenthegistra       the eligibility o f new non-       selected private contractors to evaluate school
tion o f institutions       government schools/colleges to     registration.
                            receive government recognition  o A thirdparty evaluation o fthe Independent
                            andsubventions                     Inspection Bodies in2007 showed that the
                                                               contracting process is transparent, and there have
                                                              been considerable reduction o f malpractices in
                                                               according subventions.
Improved                 o Establishdistrict andupazila     o Teacher absenteeism downto 11%in2005 from a
accountability              oversight committees;             baseline o f 17%. Recent anecdotal evidence
through monitoring       o Pilot a public expenditure          suggests further declines.
o f expenditures and        tracking survey insecondary     o 20% reduction inineligible girls receiving stipends
outcomes                    schools;                           since 2003
                         o Reformulate the role and         o Significant decline incheating instandardized
                            composition o f SMCs/GBs with     examinations;
                            increasingparticipation from    o SMCs/GBs electedusingnew procedures. Impact
                            parentdwomen;                     on performance will bejudged over time as their
                         o Enhance monitoring o f teacher     capacity is strengthened. Some 126,000 S M C P T A
                            attendance and stipend            members trained on their roles and responsibilities;
                            recipients                      3 All political influences on constitution of
                         o Disseminate the results o f        SMCs/GBs removed and malpractices inteacher
                            standardized examinations         recruitment by SMCs stopped
                            widely and publicly             3 Individuals chair n o more than four SMCs/GBs
                                                              down from, insome cases, 50 in2003
                                                            3 M+Esystemhasbeenimprovedandbegunto
                                                              produce data and information for policy and
                                                              analysis
o Strengthening          3  Establishbudget monitoring      3 Improvedtransparency and accountability.



                                                        14

Area                              ReformActions                                    InitialImpact
  financial                committee;                        o Reconciliationofaccounts inallDDO's continued
  management to         o Improve reconciliation of          o Backlog ofaudit objections beingreduced.
  ensure efficient         accounts;                         o Audit objections worth 81% invalue for 2003-05
  spending of           o Settle audit objections               settled
  resources
Enhancing TeacherEffectiveness..
o Transparency in     I o            .
                           Cabinet approval and              o Two teacher registration certification examinations
  teacher                  establishment o f NTRCA              held successfully byNTRCA.
  recruitment and       o Training in-service teachers       o All new teachersbeingrecruited come fromthe
  enhancedteacher          following a five year action         NTRCA certified pool o f potential teachers.
  training                 plan                              o 20.9 percent teachershave receivedone or other
                                                                form o f in-service training by 2007 against the
                                                                baseline o f 10%in2003

o Separation in         o ReorganizationofNCTB               o Clear separation ofroles andresponsibilities ofthe
  functions of             including separation o f             two wings.
  textbook and             curriculumand textbook wings
  curriculum wing
  ofNCTB
o Competitionin        o Development oftransparent           o Competitive process followed for productionand
  textbook                 criteria for textbook manuscript     publication o f all textbooks at secondary and all
  production at            approval                             higher secondary (grades 11-12) level.
  secondary level      o A systeminplace that ensures        o Quality oftextbook paper assessedto have
                           competition inproduction o f         improved;
                           textbooks                         o Textbooks delivered to students ontime.



  Indicators                                        BaselineData        Achievement
                                                                        (target for 2008 inparenthesis)
  % of schools establishedregistered following      30% in2003          60% in2006
  MPO criteria                                                          (80% by 2008)
  % ofpublic resourcestargeted to the poor for      24% in2002          27% in2005
  enhancedequity access                                                 (33% by 2008)
  Gender parityinsecondary education                50% girls in2003    52% girls in2005
                                                                        (50% by 2008)
  'YOof gross enrolment                             40% in2003          57% in2005
                                                                        (52% by 2008)
  YOofpassrate inSSC Exam                           40% in2003          59.47% in2006
                                                                        (55% by 2008)
  %ofpassrate inHSC Exam                            38% in2003          64% in2006
                                                                        (50% by 2008)
  % of teacher absenteeism                          17% in2003          11% in2005
                                                                        (10% by 2008)
  % of in-service teacher training                  10% in2003          20.9% inMarch 2007
                                                                        (25% by 2008)
  % oftextbook produced on competitive basis        0% in2003           100% in2006
                                                                        (100% by 2008)
  % of transparent selection & employment of        0% in2004           100% in2006
  certified teachers                                                    (100% by2007)

  46.       Inan environment ofpervasivepolitical interference, carryingout governancereforms,
  particularly inrelation to tying subvention to performance and recruiting teachers ina transparent
  manner,was no easy task. Itneededgivingvoice to the recipients o fthe secondary education



                                                      15

services, mobilizing the communities, making the actors in secondary education understandwhat
reforms translated into and sending a strong signal down the system that the Government meant
serious business. For all these, M o E launched a comprehensive communication campaign, ina
cascading manner, fiom the policy level down to the service recipient communities.
Interestingly, while inother cases, the vested interest groups' resistant to reforms were more
vocal, the discourse on education reformsunder ESDSC faced very little popular resistance,
thanks to the moral ground for reforms preparedbythe initialcommunication campaign.

47.      The task was still very daunting. Significant challenges are there to improving
transparency, accountability, school quality and access to the poor. More transparent processes o f
school recognitionand registrationfor subvention have been introduced. The reconstitutiono f
SMCs was decreed by law inorder ensure meaningful participationo fthe real recipients o f
services, particularly o f women, for effective monitoring o f the schools. However, inmany
cases, the effort was thwartedbypolitical interferences which needed to be corrected. The
monitoring and evaluation system neededto be further strengthened inorder to inform the
policymakers and facilitate their work inpolicy formulation and planningfor the country. It i s
also important that programsare developed and opportunities are created to attract the poor to
secondary education. While an appropriate teacher training policy has been developed,
institutional mechanism needto be inplace to implement it with the aim to improve the quality o f
teachers and teaching. Finally, the quality o f curriculum needs to be improved, supported by
right kmdo fbooks, ifstudents are to learn skills that will benefit them inthe labor market or in
higher education.

48.      The impact o f the reformmeasures supported by ESDSC series has been very positive so
far. Thisjustifies supporting and deepening the reform agenda inaddressing the remaining
challenges. The proposed ESDSC 111aims to support the thirdphase o f the government's
medium-term reform agenda anddeepen the reforms further inthe three key areas o f system
management, teacher effectiveness andtextbooks.

49.      The reforms supported by the program are described below, focusing on actions taken in
the thirdyear o f the program, the expected impact o f these reforms andproposed further actions
intheprogram.

SystemManagement

50.      The objectives inthis area o freforms are to establish greater transparency inthe use and
allocationo fresources to schools and colleges, increase the accountability of non-government
institutionsto fundingauthorities and local stakeholders, anddevelop a more devolved and
efficient system o fmanagement o f the education system, with greater stakeholder involvement.

Improved enforcement of criteria in recognitionh-egistration of schoolsfor subvention

5 1.     M o E has a fairly comprehensive set o f criteria which needto be met for a school to be
registered and to receive government subsidies. However, these criteria were rarely enforced due
to lack o f government oversight capacity and political interference and rent-seeking. Given its
low capacity to effectively monitor secondary school establishment and registration, M o E took
the approach to competitively select independent inspection bodies (IIBs) to evaluate the
readiness o f schools/colleges for establishment or recognition, based on set criteria. The first set
o f competitively selected service providers were hired inNovember 2005 for all the education
boards inthe country - seven regional education boards, the madrasah board andthe
vocational/technical education board. Reports from these service providers are now the basis for


                                                  16

school establishment and registration. The Government agreed with IDA that independent
evaluation of the process o f selection andperformance of the service providers would be a trigger
for ESDSC 111.

52.      Actions taken under ESDSC111: A thirdparty evaluation on the services o f I I B s was
conducted early in2007.

53.      Impact and next steps: The evaluation has shown that, despite some problems, this
process i s working. Last year, with the country inan electionmode and the politicians
susceptible to dishingout favors to both eligible and ineligible areas, it was no easy task for IIBs
to evaluate the schools for recognition objectively withstanding the political influence. However,
a thirdparty evaluation o fthe IIBs' work suggests greater transparency inthe contracting process
and considerable reduction o fmalpractices inthe establishment andrecognition o f schools.
Going forward, MoEhas decided to make use o f the lessons learned inthe process andregularly
review the effectiveness of implementationand design.

Greater transparency infinancing schools

54.      Inthepast, onceaschoolwasrecognized, itreceivedmonthlygovernment subventions-
inthe form o fteacher salaries. The Government now finances 95 percent o fthe salaries o f
teaching staff innon-government schools. This payment scheme is known as the Monthly Pay
Order (MPO). Inpractice, till recently, once schools attained eligibility to receive the MPO,be it
inagenuine manner or throughpolitical influenceor payingbribes, subsidies flowedregardless
o f performance.

55.      Given this situation, a fundingformula has been developed which links financing o f
schools to their performance. This i s being rigorously implemented. The MPO system has been
revised to clearly link subventions for teachers' salaries to outcomes on standardized
examinations ingrades 10and 12. Poorly performing schools (withless than 10percent students
passing standardized examinations ingrades 10and 12) are being givena two-year period in
which to improve their performance, failing which the subventions will be suspended. Initially,
the bar was as highas 40 per cent pass rates. Experience from past two years suggests that this
measure penalizes not only the delinquents andtruants, but also the resource starved underserved
areas and the disadvantaged communities with first generation learners, where provision o f
secondary education i s a bigchallenge, particularly inabsence o f good teachers and without
much support at home. StoppingMPOs for these schools would seriously disrupt the secondary
education system. Given this, the Government i s implementingthis order gradually and
cautiously. Also, the Government agreed with IDA inearly 2006 that preparation of a
comprehensive action plan to assist the poorly performing schools would be considered a prior
action for ESDSC 111.

56.      Actions taken under ESDSCIU; (i) total o f 368 worst performing schools (those from
                                                A
which less than 10percent of the students graduated) which have shownno improvement in
performance have had their MPOs suspended in2005 and 2006.' Another 208 schools are being
investigated to gauge whether they have valid reason for poor performance, e.g., being in
disadvantagedremote areas, underserved communities etc. Ifnot, the MPOs o f these schools will


8While the delinquent schools were punished, the students were not. The government ensured that students
inthe institutions whose MPO hadbeensuspendeddidnot lose educational opportunities. Inmost cases,
these students have moved to neighboring better performing secondary schools which have been able to
accommodate them. Evidence shows that there has not been a decline inenrollment owing to this reform.


                                                   17

also be suspended. (ii) 2005, the Government has also introduced financial incentives for
                         Since
best performing and most improving secondary institutions. An incentive i s also given to
institutions for improvedresults in SSC exams. So far, 2608 institutionshave been given these
awards. Institutions are utilizing this award to remunerate teachers for improved performance,
and improve the quality o f classroom teachindlearning materials. The schools not doing well for
want o f quality teaching are now supported by 40 mobile teaching resource teams. Consolidating
all these actions, the Government has prepared a comprehensive action plan to assist the poorly
performing schools in all aspects o f their poor performance with a special attention to the schools
inthe disadvantagedandunder-served areas.

Impact and Next Steps:

57.      This measure certainly sent a strong message down the system which alerted the non-
performing schools about the fact that performance matters ingetting subvention. A trend i s
emergmg as a result o fthese actions as evident inthe strong improvement inthe results inthe
SSC and HSC standardized examinations (see Table 3). These results prove that tying subvention
to performance, providing right kindo f incentives and support and close monitoring o f the
situation yield the desired results.

58.      Begnning2008, the Government intends to gradually move from the present blanket
subventionto a grants based financing system. Under this reform, financing will not be based on the
existing MF'O subvention system, but on a formulabased onthe numbero f students andperformance
measures, as agreed with IDA. This reform will be politically challengmg to implement, more so
withteacherscurrentlyreceiving salariesbasedonanationalpay scale. Inview ofthis, the
Government will pilot andevaluate the impact o fthis interventioninnewlyapproved schools that
presently do not receive subventions. The Government has already taken some concrete steps inthis
regard. They haveprepareda draft policy which isnow beingreviewedbyMoE, andidentifiedthe
new schools. Once the policy i s endorsed inMay 2007, they willnotify the new schools andthe
relevant agencies that that their financing will not be based onthe existing subvention system, buton
a formulabasedonthe numbero f studentsandperformancemeasures.

Enhanced equity in access

59.      The Ministry o f Educationwas cognizant about the potentialproblem that strict
enforcement o f the criteria might dampen private initiatives to establish schools in disadvantaged
communities which could lead to greater inequity in access for the poor. Inorder to resolve this
problem, M o E embarked on a periodic school mapping exercise inall upazillas o f six divisions o f
Bangladesh to identify the under-served andthe over-served areas, stop recognition o f new
schools inover-served areas and make more resources available for establishing schools in
underservedupazilas. According to the last mapping exercise, M o E has identified 115 over-
served upazilas and subventions are not beingprovided to any new schools established inthese
over-served upazillas -hence, relatively more resources are flowing to disadvantagedand
underservedupazilas. A new mapping exercise i s now underway. Secondary schools have been
set up in25 o fthe most economically disadvantaged and underservedupazilas, which didnot
have secondary schools, with support from the government.

60.      Actions taken under ESDSC111: To enhance access o f the poor to secondary education, a
pilot means tested program has been implemented since 2006 in404 schools under the Female
Secondary School Assistance Program which was also a trigger for ESDSC 111. The poor
secondary school age students are identified by school management committees and village level
officials on the basis o f agreed objective criteria, and given a stipend to attend secondary school.


                                                    18

Since the country has already achieved gender parity insecondary school enrollment, this pilot
program covers bothboys and girls to offset the impendingsocial imbalance which mightensue
from the incentives given only to the girls so far under the country-wide girls' stipend programs.
An internalmonitoringmechanism has beenputinplace to ensure strict adherence to the poverty
criteria and outcomes o f the pilot exercise. This pilot is currently being evaluated.

61.      Impact and Next Steps: As a result of these interventions, a greater proportion o fpublic
resources are now targeted towards the poor (27 percent in2005 as compared to 24 percent in
2003). A baseline survey has been undertaken to investigate the initial impact o f the pro-poor
targeting pilot. The preliminary findings are encouraging: (a) amongpoor households, there i s no
gender differential inattendance rates for 10-18 year old children inprogram school communities
while the female-male gap inattendance rates i spronounced incontrol school communities; (b)
new enrolments amongbothboys and girls are higher inprogram schools compared to non-
program schools; and (c) test scores are higher amongprogram students than non-program
students. The critical follow-up survey has also been completed inJanuary 2007 andthe data i s
currently being cleaned, entered and analyzed.

62.      Based on the preliminary results o f the ongoing pilot, M o E has started working toward a
comprehensive national framework and a set o f criteria to target poor children keeping inview
the forthcoming projects andprograms which will have a clear focus on targeting the poor. A
draft framework has already been developed. This will be further informedby the findings o f the
follow-up survey, and it is expected that the framework will be implementedby 2008. Giventhat
the quality o f schooling inunderserved areas i s particularly weak, M o E will further develop a
strategy to raise performance levels of the schools inthose areas.

Improved accountability through tighter monitoring of outcomes and expenditures

63.      There is a general weakness o fthe Bangladesheducation system withregardto reliable data
well recognizedby all involved inthe education sector. Reliable data helps the Government take
informeddecision as to what to prioritizeandhow to phase actions ina country-wide planninginthe
face o fresource constraints. Despite some improvements, there was still a lack o fcoordination
betweenBANBEIS andDSHE withregard to data collection andconfusion about the respective
roles. The result was, insome cases, duplication indata collection, andinothers, absenceo f data.

64.      However, important reforms have been initiatedwhich have led to a significant
improvement inthe quality o f data and their use, increase inthe emphasis on monitoring,
evaluation and the dissemination o f information. A key component o f MoE's reform agenda is to
ensure that there i s a significant reduction inthe misallocationo fresources. To better understand
the situation, M o E undertook a pilot expenditure tracking survey under the Financial
Management ReformProgramProject. The survey was undertaken in28 upazilas and assessed
whether inputswere present on the ground (e.g. whether teachers on the payroll were present in
schools), and compared expenditures at the school level with national level data. The survey
found that while there were no major discrepancies on expenditures, there were some instances o f
malpractices inthe system - e.g. schools had to make `speed' payments to get resources, teachers
were absent, and there were still a significant number o f girls who didnot meet eligibility criteria
were receiving stipends. M o E has responded by significantly enhancing system monitoring by
district and upazilalevel officials and involving the school management committees (this i s
described inmore details below) inmonitoring activities at the school level.

65.      Actions taken under ESDSCI..:Significant steps have been taken by M o E to improve
the monitoring and evaluation capacity o f M o E and BANBEIS inkeeping with the trigger inthis


                                                  19

regards. (i) uniform data coding system has now been developed by BANBEIS which allows
               A
data on pupil-level examination scores to be linked with data on school characteristics. This
alleviates a recurrent problem at the policy makers' level- as it was not possible to integrate
several data sources which used different coding systems. (ii)          To ensure country-wide availability
o fdata andinformationon areal-time basis, an education database and web based software has
been installed inall district education offices by MoE.

66.       Simultaneously, M o E has also taken several initiatives to enhance its evaluation capacity
and use data from evaluations for policymaking. These include: (i)             Annual student assessments
(based on internationallyrecognized assessments such as TIMSS) piloted inGrades 8 and 12; (ii)
third-party impact evaluation o f the girls' secondary stipend program and o f the means-tested
stipendprogram, andincorporatingthe lessons from these evaluations into programdesign; and
(iii) partyevaluationofseveralmeasuresandinstitutionalmechanisms,e.g., public
      third
expenditure tracking, transparency inthe functions andprocesses o fNTRCAandIndependent
InspectionBodies (IIBs).

67.       Impact and Next Steps. The main dividend from better quality data and evaluations o f
programs are better policies ifproperly used. Benchmarking the performance of Bangladeshi
students against international assessment standards will serve two functions for policymakers-
first, it will allow them to observe whether the reforms inplace are leadingto better test scores
over time, and second, whether Bangladesh i s closing the performance gap with better performing
countries. This will also help them understand the reasons underlyingthe gap. As regards other
evaluations, the Government i s now better informed which helps them fine-tune the policies and
the processes.

68.       To further improvethe quality o fdata, BANBEIShas beenresourcedto undertake a
comprehensive census o fpost-primary educational institutions inAugust 2007. Thls will berepeated
at five year intervals. A strategy has also been developedto undertake a sample survey o f
institutions on an annual basis inbetween the censuses. The methodology andquestionnaires have
been developedandfine tuned withsupport from IDA. Inpreparationfor the upcomingcensus,
BANBEIS isnow holding six workshops insix divisions onthe use andimportance o feducation
data. InOctober 2007,BANBEIS will also conduct global positioning survey (GPS) ofthe
educationinstitutions.

Greaterparticipation of communities in school management and devolution of authority

69.       Inprinciple,thereshouldbeastronginstitutionalmechanismfor community
participation inthe secondary educational system. School ManagingCommittees' (SMCs) and
Governing Bodies (GBs) were supposed to play a critical role inhiringteachers, and monitoring
school performance, attendance o f teachers and students, upkeep o fphysical infrastructure, and
performance inexaminations. However, these bodies were sometimes influenced by politicians                     -
to dole out teachingjobs to unqualifiedrelatives and those who were allegiant to them. This
political interference ledto anapparent lack o f interest o f genuine community members and
guardians to actively participate in SMCs/GBs inthe past.

70.       Inorder to ensuremeaningful community participationwith appropriate empowerment,
reforms were introduced to streamline the composition o f these bodies and strengthen their role
with greater emphasis placedon the monitoring role (Box 2). District and upazilla advisory


 SMC's are required in all recognized non-government secondary schools (grades 6-10) and GB's inhigher secondary
schools/intermediate colleges- grades 11-12.


                                                      20

committees were also established with the authority to monitor school performance and ensure
public disclosure o f information (e.g. SSC pass rates, teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.)
related to school quality.

71.      Actions taken under ESDSCI..:(i) Government has issued a circular inNovember
                                                The
2006 to all SMCs/GBs and relevant offices that all "political persons" have to be dropped from
the committees with immediate effect for the institutions to continue to receive subvention.
Instead, as an interim arrangement untilnew elections to these committees, the relevant
government officials, (e.g., the deputy commissioner, Upazilla Nirbahi Officer, Upazilla
EducationOfficer, as appropriate) will chair the committees. This is certainly a bold step by the
Care-Taker Government to withstand the elite capture and political capture o f these committees
which set the stage for meaningful community participation; (ii)        Over the past two years, about
126,000 SMC/GB/Parents Teachers Association (PTA) members from 6,666 institutionshave
already been trained to better understand their roles and responsibilities.


       Box 2: School Management Committees(SMCs) and GoverningBodies(GBs)                          -
                                  CompositionandResponsibilities

 According to the revised regulations governing the formation o f SMCs, they will be elected for a three
 year term. The committee consists of:
      a chairman -the deputy commissioner, an upazilla nirbahi officer, or a local distinguishedperson-
      no individual can chair more than four SMCs;
 0    a member-secretary the headmasterheadmistress of the school;
                          -
 0    nine members-two teachers to be elected by teachers o f the school, seven other members
      including four guardians to be elected from among the student guardians, and at least one person
      interested ineducation to be nominated bythe Department o f Secondary andHigher Education
      (DSHE). At least one o f these members has to be a woman

 Among their functions, SMCs will have the authority to:
 0   monitor school performance, teacher and student attendance.
 0   raise funds and create endowments for the school;
      appoint, suspend, dismiss and remove teachers and ensure regular payment o f teachers' salaries;
      approve annual budgets including the development budget and examine the monthly financial
      statements.

      The composition andresponsibilities o f GBs are fairly similar to that o f the SMCs.


72.     Impact and Next Step: The reformed SMCs, fkeed from political interference, are
expected to play a crucial role inmanagement and monitoring o f schools ifthey are truly
empowered. This i s not an easy task inthe given stratified rural society and the given client-
patron relationship. However, as described inthe PRSP, the rural Bangladesh has experienced a
"personality revolution'' with the emergence o f assertive people who have longremained
marginalized. Prolonged NGOinterventionsinrural communities are believed to have acted as a
catalyst inthis regard. This i s expected to offset the long-known nature o f "elite capture." As a
next step, the Government will launcha thirdparty evaluation o fthe impact o f SMC reforms to
examine whether these reforms have led to greater accountability o f the schools to the
community.

73.     Impact and Next Steps. The impact o fthese reforms will take time to materialize.
However, some positive benefits are visible - as demonstratedthrough declines inteacher
absenteeism, and inthe number o f ineligible girls receiving stipends.


                                                   21

74.      The elimination o f vested interest groups from SMCs, combined with knowledge
regardingtheir roles andresponsibilities, i s expected to make these bodies undertake their
monitoring roles even more effectively inthe future. Over the next three years, the Government
plans to impart training to members inall SMCs, GBs and PTAs.

75.      Environmentally acceptable construction:In order to ensure sustainable and
environmentally acceptable construction o f school buildings, it i s important that the proper
environmental guidelines are followed.

76.      Actions taken under ESDSCIII:M o E has prepared the environmental guidelines for
school construction inkeeping with the agreed overall Environment Management Framework.
The Ministryensures strict adherence to the guidelines inconstruction o f schools buildingsfor
the schools to continue to receive support from the Government.

77.      Impact and next step: Environmentally sustainable constructionhelps the country
maintain a healthy and learners-friendly institutional atmosphere which provides multi-faceted
benefits to generations. However, M o E needs to review the guidelines on a regular basis to
include new knowledge and keep them updated. Inaddition, M o E needs to put inplace a
monitoring mechanism to ensure full compliance, not only inconstruction, but also in
maintenance o f the schools.

Enhancing quality of secondary school teachers

78.      The objective o fthis reformis to develop a transparent and high-quality system o f
teacher recruitment and teacher training guided by agreed criteria and standards. While it is
difficult to improve the quality o f all teachers inthe short-term, it i s possible to begin tackling the
problem o fteacher absenteeism, stop poorly qualified teachers from entering the system, and
establish a more effective system o fpre andin-service training.

Transparency in teacher recruitment

79.      Teachers innon-government schools are recruiteddirectly by SMC's/GBs. While the
appointment procedures were clearly laid out ingovernment rules andregulations, the hiring
system, however, was open to abuse and rent-seeking. A combination o f the lack o f application
o f standardizedhiringcriteria, inadequate community/parental participation in SMCs/GBs, and
capture o f these bodies by the local elites and those who are politically influential contributed to
frequent violation o fhiringpractices. Poorer, better-qualifiedapplicants were rejected infavor o f
the candidates who could contribute to the school's finances, pay bribes or would qualify as the
protCgC o f someone very influential.

80.      To combat these odds, the Government has embarked on a major reformaimed at rapidly
improving the quality o f the flow o fteachers entering the system. In2005, the Government set
up aNon-government Teacher Registrationand Certification Authority (NTRCA), as aprior
action under the previous ESDSC I,     with the responsibilityto screen potentialteachers for
qualification. While SMCs and GBs, on behalf o fthe communities, still recruit the teachers, it is
mandatory for them to choose from the pool o fpotential teachers certified byNTRCA inorder to
qualify for government subventions. NTRCAheld two rounds o f examinations in2005 and 2006
and the thirdround i s expected to be held inJuly 2007.




                                                   22

81.       Actions taken under ESDSC111: The NTRCA is now screening and certifying a pool of
individuals eligible to be hiredas teachers in non-government secondary and higher secondary
institutions. One ofthe triggersfor ESDSC I11was to conduct a third party evaluation o fthe
NTRCA processes. This evaluation has recently beencompleted, and the Government has put in
place a systemto cross check ifthe NTRCA certification i s being strictly adheredto.

82.        Impact and Next Steps. The evaluation shows that the process i s working effectively.
The Government has put inplace amechanismto verify the certification and registrationof all
candidates. Sincethe beginning ofthe certificationprocess, all teachersrecruitedby institutions
have been certified byNTRCA.

83.        The key next step is to completethe staffingofthe NTRCA. While the authority started
functioningwith staff secondedfrom the Board of Intermediate and SecondaryEducation, the
Government is now inthe processhiringNTRCA's own full-timestaff. Additionally, the
Government plansto undertake an evaluation o fthe course content of the certification
examination, after the third round of exams scheduled for July 2007. Changes introduced on the
basis of this evaluation are expectedto enhance the quality o fthe certification process.

              Box 3: Non-governmentTeacher Registration and Certification Authority (NTRCA)

  The Non-government TeacherRegistrationandCertificationAuthority was establishedinMarch, 2005 by a
  legislationpassedby Parliament. The basic responsibilityofthe institution isto administer tests for potential
  candidates, meetingbasic criteria, for teaching positionsinsecondaryschools.NTRCA fmstartedwithsupport
  fiomthe BoardofIntermediateandSecondaryEducationandthe NationalAcademy for EducationManagement.
  NowtheNTRCA is in theprocessofhavingitsownset-up while the collaborationwith BISEandNAEMStill
  continues. The SMCdGBscannowrecruitteachersonlywhentheyarecertifiedbyNTRCA. Otherwisethey don't
  qualify for the governmentsubvention, knownas monthly pay order (MF'O).
  At present, annualnationaldemandfor teachersis around 10,000 andNTRCA is certifying morethandoubleto
  meetthe demand. From2008, in additionto NTRCA certification,the potentialteacherswould needaB.Ed.
  degree for entryto ateachingposition.
'
1
  I n2005, the first NTRCAteachercertificationexaminationwas heldandatotal of 58,620 candidatesparticipated
  of which 33,788 participantspassed(57.64%). Specifically, 25,25 1candidatesparticipatedfor secondarylevel
  institutionsofwhich 12,553 (49.71Y0) passedandfor higher secondarylevel institutionsatotal of33,369
  candidatesparticipatedofwhich21,235 (63.64Y0)passed.

  Inthe first NTRCA examination, 37subjectswere selectedatthe secondaryandhighersecondarylevel.23
  subjectswere from secondaryleveland 14fkom higher secondarylevel.

  In2006, the secondNTRCAteacher certificationexaminationwas heldandatotal of99,807 candidates
 participatedofwhich 44,343 applicantswere for secondarylevel institutionsand 55,464 applicants for higher
  secondarylevel institutions. A total of 115 subjectswere includedinthe 2006 examination. This representsa
  sharp rise (211%) inthe number of subjectsfrom 2005 examination. Another 50 subjectsneedto be includedin
 the next examinationto cover allthe subjectsofvariouseducationalinstitutions.

 Ofthese, atotal of22,381(22.42%) candidatespassedthe 2006NTRCA examinationsof which 11,152 (25.15%)
 were for secondarylevel institutionsand22,381 (22.42%) for higher secondarylevel institutions. Amongthe
 certifiedpotentialteachers at secondarylevel3,597 (32%) are female andtheir passratewas 24.71% while in
 higher secondary level3,947 (18%) were femaleandtheir passratewas 19.93%.

 To be addressedsoon     ...
 NTRCA is now inthe processofrecruitingthe approvedstaff of its own, linking its databaseofthe certified
 pool ofteachers with those ofBANBEIS andDSHE for MPO subvention andother purposes, sharing of
 informationwith SMCs/GBs. Presently, each certifiedcandidateisgiven anexclusiveregistrationnumberfor
 the purposeof identificationbothby the SMCs/GBsandthe relevantgovernmentagencies.




                                                          23

Improved Teacher Quality

84.      Teacher Training/Standards. Realizingthe importance o fwell-trained teachers, M o E
developed a comprehensive reformpackage for its teacher training system, which was approved
by the Cabinet in2005, and i s now being implemented." While NTRCAi sresponsible for
certifying the pool o f incoming teachers, a five-year teacher training actionplanis being
implementedin order to ensure that teachers within the system are provided training to
continually upgrade their skills, and new head teachers undergo compulsory initial training on
appointment. This i s being done incompliance with the trigger for ESDSC 111. Inaddition, the
Government approved pension for non-government school teachers and an increase intheir salary
as an incentive to retain teachers into the system, and to upgrade their skills.

85.      Actions taken under ESDSCIII: The Government i s pursuingin-service teacher training
through various short-term interventions rather vigorously. Over the past two years, 17540 head
teachers, 3712 assistant head teachers and27,206 subject teachers have been trained. 655 trainer
teachers have also been trained. Inorder to provide training support to teachers, particularly in
the remote and disadvantaged areas, the Government formed, on a pilot basis, 40 Mobile
Teaching Resource Teams (MTRT), each consisting o f four experienced trainer teachers (in
Maths, Bangla, English and Science). They have offered on-the-spot training to teachers in752
schools on the application o f appropriate pedagogical techniques.

86.      Initially, the idea was to restructure the National Academy for EducationManagement
(NAEM)to performthis addedresponsibilityofcoordinatingteacher training across the sub-
sector which was put as a trigger for ESDSC III.However, complications arose from the fact that
some o f these activities also neededto engage the National University and the OpenUniversity
andinstitutionalmechanism to linkNAEMto these two institutionsprovedto be difficult.

87.      Impact and Next Steps: Close to 21 percent o f teachers havenow received some in-
service training, andthese reforms are expected to leadto an improved quality o f the stock o f
teachers present inthe system.

88.      The Government is inthe process o f establishing a National Council for Teacher
Education(NCTE), as an arm o f the NTRCA, which would be given the overarching
responsibilityo f looking after all arrangements for teacher education inthe country. This i s
expected to be done by 2008. M o E has also decided that beginning in2008, all new teachers
entering the system will need a minimumone year B.Ed. level training ingovernment or in
approved private teacher training colleges (TIC'S)    before being accredited. Inaddition, an in-
service teacher training programwill be developed andprovided to untrained teachers innon-
government schools through a two-stage B.Ed. program. The first stage will focus on practical
aspects o f classroom teaching. Inthe second stage, these teachers will complete the remaining
B.Ed. module either through distance learningor face-to-face mode through the accredited
Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs). Finally, a system o f selective specialist in-service teacher
training programs will also be developed for teachers inEnglish, Mathematics and the Sciences
and will be provided through distance education. While these reforms were expected to be
implemented in2006/7, they have been delayed owing to the fact that initially it was envisaged
that the National Academy o f EducationManagement (NAEM) would be responsible for
overseeingteacher education at the secondary level. However, basedon analysis which


loThe AsianDevelopment Bankwill be supportingMoE's investmentsin the area of teacher training throughthe
recentlyapprovedTeacher Quality ImprovementProject.


                                                   24

demonstrated that undertaking such a function was not to NAEM'scomparative advantage, a
high-level policy decision was taken to establish NCTE.

Textbooksand Curriculum

89.       While the National Curriculum andTextbook Board (NCTB) falls under the authority o f
MoE, it is in fact responsible for curriculum development and textbook productionat boththe
primaryand secondary levels. The main objective o freforms inthis area is to ensure that NCTB
stays away from textbook production and publishingand focuses on oversight o f textbook
production and curriculum development.

Separation of curriculum development and textbookproduction

90.       Inthepast, NCTBwas responsible for developingcurriculum andpublishingand
distributingstandardtextbooks. Itstwo professional wings -the curriculum andtextbook units,
respectively correspond to these two purposes. As the curriculum and textbook wings operate in
              -
different fields, they require specialist staff with completely different skills. InBangladesh, the
demarcation between the two wings was blurred and there was a substantial degree o f overlap -
withthe curricula wing staffoftenperforming the duties o fthe textbook wing.

91.       The rationale for this reform i s that the textbook production and curriculum development
units, which requiretwo separate setso fprofessional skills, would receive more attention ifthere
i s a clear separation o f functions. Inthe past, there was an imbalance o fpower and control
between the two wings affectingparticularly the curriculum related activities. Based on this
reality, the Government has now restructuredNCTB to demarcate the functions o fthe curriculum
andtextbook units which was agreed as a trigger for ESDSC III.Implementationo fthis reform
has led to complete functional separation o ftextbook and curriculum units. The curriculum unit
remains exclusively focused on preparing, testing, revising, and disseminating curricula andon
other curriculum related activities. The wing is disengaged from textbook production. The
textbook wing is responsible for oversight o f textbook production anddistribution through a
transparent and open competitiveprocess.

92.      Actions taken under ESDSC111: The curriculum wing i s now fully separated from the
textbook wing and focused on the secondary education curriculum. Based on its revised
curriculum, the first SSC exams will be held in2009.

93.      Impact and Next Steps. The Government will also evaluate the effectiveness o f these
reforms inorder to see ifthe functional separation is leadingto an improvement inperformance
o fNCTB and o f the curriculum wing.

Transparency in manuscript approval and competition in textbookproduction

94.       The manner inwhich NCTB evaluated textbook manuscripts inthe past was not
transparent. Criteria and ratings inthe selection process were not made public, nor were they
made available to the author submittinga manuscript. Textbook publishingfor the secondary
sector was also not open to competition      - publishingand printingwere undertakenby firms
chosen by N C T B without recourse to a competitive process. The lack o f competition ledto rent-
seeking, and was responsible for poor textbook quality, highproduction costs, and unavailability
o f textbooks to schools on time.




                                                    25

21memberIndependent Textbook                              Box 4: Textbook Approval Process
Evaluation Committee (ITEC) which
developed a set of transparent                   Authors are giventhree monthsto submit the manuscripts.

selection criteria for evaluating                Submittedmanuscriptsare then reviewedby independent

textbook manuscripts. These criteria             experts. To maintaintransparencyandfairness inselecting
                                                 manuscripts,namesofauthors are codedandnot revealedto
are now beingfollowed, and basedon               ITEC.
the criteria, a-teamof subject                   Once approvedwith necessaryrevisionssuggested,
specialists outside NCTB evaluate                printers/publisherspublishthe books.
manuscriptswhich are then approved               NCTB reviewsthe publishedbooksfor congruencewith

by ITEC andNCTB (Box 4). The                     ITECrecommendations.Ifcomplied, they are allowedto be
                                                 marketedaheadofthe beeinnineof the academic vear. If
whole processof textbook publication             not, NCTB notifies the relevantprinter/publisherto
                                                                         Y     Y




and printinghasnow beenmade                      withdraw the book.




96.      Actions taken under ESDSCIII:All textbooks for grades 6-12 have been opened up to
competition. However, owingto a reversal o f a policy decision inlate 2005 to continue with the
multi-track system for grades 9-10 for one moreyear, 13 NCTB textbooks had to be usedfor
these gradespendingfinal decision on the curriculum issue. Still, policy for competitive
production of all secondary education booksremains the same. The Government will soontake
the curriculum related decision and competitiveproductionof those 13 books will resume before
the academic year 2008

97.      Impact and Next Steps: Thesereforms have led to a significant reduction inrent-seeking
andimprovements inthe quality andcosts o ftextbooks produced. There has also been a
significant improvement ingetting the books to the students ontime over the past three years
since the beginningof these reforms. In2005 and2006, bookswere deliveredto studentson time
prior to the beginning of the academic year. The quality o f the paper i s also reportedto be
superior as compared to that ofprevioustextbooks. The schools choosethe textbooks they want
from the market creating apressureon the printers/publishersto place their books inthe
bookshops inquality and on time. However, the Government is considering an independent
evaluation of all aspects of competitiveproduction oftextbooks at the secondary education level,
particularly the quality of the textbooks, to inform its own policy formulation inkture.

98.      Based on the discussion above, Box 5 provides, at a glance, the prior actions and other
actions that were addedon the basis o f discussion with MoE over the past year keepinginview
the evolvingnecessitiesineducationreforms for disbursementofthe third credit. Annex E
comparesthe prior actions for ESDSC I11with the potentialtriggers that were agreed at the time
of ESDSC 11. As can be seen inthis Annex, almost all the proposed triggers have become prior
actions for ESDSC 111.




                                                  26

                                Box 5: ESDSCIII: of Prior Actions
                                                       Summary

SystemManagement

     Independent evaluation ofthe performance of service providers assessing school eligibility for subvention has been
     completed andrecommendations being implemented.
     A means-testedstipendschemehasbeenpiloted. An independent evaluation o fthe pilot is beingcompleted.
     Based on recommendations, a draft fiarnework for a national approach has been developed.
     Capacity o f MoE/BANBEIS enhanced to update data annually, and carry out third-party surveys. Student
     assessment for students ingrades 8 and 12based on internationally recognized assessments(such as TIMSS)
     piloted.
     Action plan approved to assist the ill-performingschools inthe poorer or disadvantaged areas.
     Implementation o f MoEfinancial management improvement plancontinues with an effective financial
     management unit inplace.
     Environmental guidelines prepared for new school construction.

TeacherEffectiveness

     Third-partyevaluationofNTRCA registration andcertificationprocess completedandrecommendations are under
     implementation.
     New teacher training plan for new andheadteachers as well as subject specialists inEnglish, Mathematics andthe
     Sciencesdeveloped andteachers are now beingtrained based on a five-year action plan.

Curriculum and Textbooks

     All aspectsofNCTB restructuring completedandtotal functional separation ofthe textbook andcurriculum units
     completed.
     The process o f competition for textbook publishing andprintingfor the entire secondary education system has
     been completed. Now all textbooks ingrades 6-12 are published following a competitive andtransparent process.



                                              K TheProposed Credit

     99.      The proposed Credit will support the thirdphase of implementation ofthe government's
     education reform program -mainly focusing on supporting governance relatedreforms in
     secondary education as laid out inMoE's medium-term framework, and described indetail in
     Section IV above. The proposed credit would complement the D S C series o f operations that are
     aimed at strengthening core governance functions, with emphasis onprocurement, public
     financial management, tax administration, public administration, and checks and balances on
     public entities. The amount of the credit would be US$lOO million equivalent, and the borrower
     wouldbe the People's Republic ofBangladesh.

     100.     While the proposed credit i s the last inthe current series of education sector
     programmatic support credits (ESDSC I-111), the Government i s keen to have continued support
     to push forward education sector reforms. Hence, discussions for potential follow-on support
     under a new series o f programmatic support credits are also underway.

     101.     The Government has put inplace a prudent and sustainable medium-term macro-
     economic framework for increasing growth and poverty reduction based o n agreement with the
     Bank and the IMF. The economy grew by 6.7 percent inFY06, the highest rate inover two
     decades and the third consecutive year o f at least 6 percent growth. Despite several months of
     political turmoil, forecasts suggest 6.7 percent growth inFY07 as well. Growthhas been broad-



                                                         27

based, cutting across all major economic sectors and benefiting from robust demand inboth
domestic and export markets. The fiscal, monetary, and external indicatorshave remained within
the thresholds o fthe macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMFunder the PRGFprogram.
This credit is subject to the satisfactory implementation o f the macro-framework.

102.      The prior actions are consistent with the medium-term policy framework articulated by
MoE. The policy matrix i s attached as Annex B. The set o f actions supported by the prior credits
are outlined inthe matrix along with the set o fprior actions that Government i s undertaking as
part o f the proposed third credit. The matrix also describes the continued actions contemplated
for the period beyond the current series o f sector support programs. The monitorable indicators
associated with this policy framework are presented inthe final column.

103.      Borrower, Credit Amount, Termsand Tranching: The borrower i s the People's Republic
o f Bangladesh. A single tranche Credit o f SDR 65.6 million (US$lOO million equivalent) would
be made available upon credit effectiveness. The closing date o f the Credit i s December 31,
2007. The completion o fthe prior actions should be considered sufficient ground for the release
o f the Credit.

104.      Disbursement: Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed inone single tranche, to a
specific deposit account of the Ministry o f Finance established at BangladeshBank for this
purpose; the deposit account i s part o f the country's official foreign exchange reserves. An
amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will then be creditedto an account o f the Government
to finance budgeted expenditures. The Government will be required to provide a confirmationto
the bankthat the proceeds o f the Credit has been receivedinthe designateddeposit account and
that an equivalent amount inlocal currency has also been credited to an account o f the
government available to finance budgeted expenditures. Transactions and balances o fthe
Government account will be fully incorporated into the Government's accounting records and
financial statements. Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases andno
procurement requirements will be needed. Ifany portion o fthe Credit proceeds i s used for
ineligible purposes as defined by the Development Credit Agreement, the International
development Association (IDA) will require the Borrower either to returnthat amount to the
deposit account or refundthe amount directly to IDA. The Bank assessedthat the above stated
measures would provide adequate fiduciary arrangement for the operation.

Fiduciary Issues

105.      Financial Management. Over the last several years, GOB has been addressing key
weaknesses in financial management identified inthe Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), through a series o freformprograms supported by DFID, World Bank anda
few other development partners. The government, incollaboration with the development partners
took measures to sustain the progress achieved and looked ahead to identify the gaps and address
those on a priority basis. A joint World Bank,DFIDand GOB review o f Institutional
Arrangements for Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement that was carried
out under Public Expenditureand Financial Accountability (PEFA) PegormaneeMeasurement
Framework identified that althougha number o freforms have been undertaken and the overall
trajectory o f change has been positive, the pace o fprogress was slow and a number o f challenges
still persist. The challenges that need to be addressed are: (a) allowing greater flexibility to
ministries inmanagement o f budget implementation; (b) improving the internal control
environment; (c) strengthening the accounting and reporting mechanisms to obtain timely,
regular, adequate and reliable information; (d) improving the quality o f audit and its impact; (e)
developingrelevant knowledge, aptitude, competence and skills o f civil servants; (f) enhancing


                                                  28

financial management capacity and accountability o f line ministriesby meaningful integrationo f
CAOs with the assigned ministryand ( g) enhancing implementationcapacity o fPFM
institutions.

106.     GOBrecognized the importance o fimproving the quality o fpublic financial management
for achieving the development goals set forth inthe PRSP. Accordingly, GOB undertook
strengthening the planningprocesses to avoid over programming, including throughbetter project
preparation and approval process and introduced a Medium-Term Budgetary Framework
(MTBF)on apilot basis in14ministries(including MOE) withplans to includemore ministries
inFY08.

107.     GOBinitiated certain steps to enhance oversight onpublic financial accountability. In
addition to earlier steps o f eliminating a major conflict of interest by separating the external audit
andinternalaccounting functions, GOBi s working on institutingan Audit Act to makethe C&AG
a truly independent body, by earmarking for it non-discretionary budgetary allocations and
providing it with more autonomy on administrative decisions. Furthermore, with assistance from
the Bank, GOB has started setting up a technical support unit for the Public Accounts Committee
(PAC) inthe Legislature and developinga system o f information that would increase the
transparency o f its decision making processes.

108.     One o f the benchmarks for access to development policy lending duringthe current CAS
period (2006-09)i s to achieve satisfactory progress on the annual benchmarks to be established
under the agreed Public Expenditureand Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework. The Bank
has been workmg with the government to develop a detailed actionplanthat will help improve
the ratings on the Public Financial Management (PFM) indicators over the mediumterm. The
government has recently developed andinitiated implementationo f an agreed Public Financial
Management Improvement Plan(PFMIP), satisfactory to IDA, with measures andtimetable to
address gaps including those identified inPFMindicatorsratings. Efforts are also underway to
tailor andapply the PFMmeasurement framework at the sector level to specifically suit the needs
o f MOE. To identify the sector specific public financial management issues, a financial
management assessment o f the education sector was conducted at the beginningo f ESDSC
program, andit identifiedthe following pertinentissues: (a) inadequate control environment
leadingto misuse, wastage ofpublic funds and corruption; (b) unreliable accounts due to backlog
inreconciliationaffectingbudget monitoring; (c) insufficient capacity inMOEto produce
comprehensive financial information to evaluateperformance and take informed decision; (d)
absence o f internal audit function to review the internal control system and management; (e) poor
response to audit objections at prior PAC stage and persistent delays inimplementation of PAC
recommendations; (0lack o f professional financial management capacity invarious academic
andadministrative units; and (8) misuse o f autonomy and lack o f accountability inpublic
universities and education boards. Expenditure tracking studies suggested that the public
financial resources reached schools as intended, but there was evidence o fmismanagement inthe
authorization o f spending.

109.     MOEhas been keento address the above issues andhad agreed with IDA on a medium
term FinancialManagement Improvement Plan (FMIP)comprising actions to: (a) strengthen the
Financial Management Unit (FMU); (b) improve reconciliation o f accounts; (c) introduce internal
audit; (d)respondbetter to resolution o f audit findings; and (e) strengthen follow-up on
recommendations o f the Public Accounts Committee. Significant progress has been made in
implementationo f these agreed actions though targeted result was not fully achieved. MoE's
activities ingeneral faced disruptions due to severe political violence and uncertainties over the
last quarter o f the previous year.


                                                  29

110.     Inkeepingwiththe ESDSC I11trigger ofa fully functional FinancialManagement Unit
(FMU), the Unithas facilitatedimprovedmonitoringo fproject expenditure data, introductiono f
MTBFincluding compilation o fintegratedbudget, andtrackingo fpoverty related expenditure.
The status o f reconciliation o f the records o f the Drawing and Disbursement Officers (DDOs)
with the respective Accounts Offices isregularly monitored ,althoughtargeted fullreconciliation
i s yet be achieved. MOE has initiatedthe process to take punitive action against the defaulting
DDOsand strengthenedthe enforcement mechanism to achieve the targetedresult. On the
settlement o f audit objections, MOEworked hard inestablishing base line data to track audit
objections for three financial years FY2002-2005 across all the spending units o f the Ministry.
Out o f a total number o f 3134objections involvingBDT344.9 million, settlement reached at the
end o f April 2007 recorded 81%invalue. MOE identified that some organizational strengthening
o f MOE i s required to monitor and enforce better response o f its units to audit findings.
Accordingly, a new wing has been created ledby a Joint Secretary who, with his team, i s now
able to devote full attention to follow up actions on a more regular basis. The audit wing with a
fully functional Audit Cell hasbeen vigorously followingupaudit issuesbyholding tripartite
meetings across the country, between the auditee units and auditors inattendance o f the Joint
Secretary or the Deputy Secretary o fthe audit wing. The Ministry in a highlevel meeting
presided by its Secretary recently took a target with a time bound actionplan to resolve 80%
percent o f audit objections invalue by April 30,2007. As evident, they have already achieved
their target. The resolution o f audit objections and implementationprogress o f PAC
recommendations is being tracked through a data base. A highlevel committee chaired by the
Secretary, MOE i s monitoring the progress andissuingdirectives to the defaulting directorates
underMOE. PrivateAuditors were engaged inauditing educational institutionsacross the
country in seven packages. MOE i s examining the reports received. MOEagreed to share the
TOR with IDA for future engagement ofprivate auditors for internalaudit o f its organization and
operations.

111.     The existing level o f PFMperformance together with the positive trajectory o f changes
and the government's demonstrated commitment to reformsprovide an adequate PFM
environment to support the present Development Policy Operation.

112.     Fiducialy Risk. The IMF SafeguardAssessment conducted inSeptember 2002 concluded
that financial management inthe BangladeshBank was weak. To enhance the safeguards
framework, the Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its financial management with IMF
support and the IDA-financed CentralBank Strengthening Project. A timetable has been set for
the adoption by the Bangladesh Bank o f InternationalAccounting Standards (IAS) as its
accounting framework. Starting from FY03, Bangladesh Bank had its financial statements
audited by audit firms having international affiliation, in full compliance with International
Standards on Auditing. BangladeshBank's FY05 financial statements were auditedjointly by
two firms that are associates o f internally reputed firms. The auditors expressed unqualified
opinion and indicatedthat the financial statements were prepared inaccordance with I A S and the
audit report didnot indicate any weakness in foreign exchange management.

113.     The various diagnostics conducted by the Bank and other donors also acknowledge that
fiduciary risk inpublic spending inBangladesh i s high. GOB has taken several steps to address
the weaknesses. As outlined the section on financial management, significant progress has been
made over the last few years to strengthen financial management and reduce fiduciary risks. The
GOB has continued its PFMreformplans, as evidenced by the ongoingDFIDfundedFinancial
Management ReformProgram (FMRF'), which started in2003, and implementationo f other
aspects o f the reformprogram described inthis ProgramDocument. As a part o f the review o f
InstitutionalArrangements for public expenditure, financial management and procurement,


                                                    30

Bangladesh's PFM system was ratedagainst internationally accepted indicators (PEFA). This
provides a useful framework to track progress towards improved P F M performance against
annual bench marks that are inthe process of being established.

114.    Budgetary Risk. Fungibilityo f funds implies that budgetary resources may be diverted or
misused, which poses a particular riskto operations such as ESDSC 111. The Government,
however, has a good record o f allocatingpublic spending to key development sectors, including
social spending and infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements and
financial management within government ministries (including MoE) has been strengthened with
DFID's assistance. External oversight by the Comptroller and Auditor Generalk office is also in
place. Further, tracking studies o f major spending on education also i s evidently curbing
leakages. These measures should mitigate budgetary risks, but their effectiveness will depend
crucially on the swift resolutiono f serious financial irregularities, identifiedby the C&AG, and
on readiness by the Finance Ministryto impose financial sanctions on errant agencies and
programs. The PFMIPof M o E addresses some o f these concerns.

115.    Procurement. The landscape o fprocurement has beenreshaped duringthe course o f the
last several years with steady progress inimproving the transparency and competitiveness in
public procurement - an area typically rife with corruption. Initially, the Government put in
place a uniformprocurement policy inOctober 2003 for all public sector entities across the
country, with provisions o f substantially reducedlayers inprocurement approvalprocess. In
addition, a procurement tracking system through MISwas established. The new regulations
increased awareness among the contracting/ business community and contributed significantly
towards harmonizing donors' and Government procurement procedures. The Bank and other key
development partners accepted the regulations for all local procurement. Then, despite strong
resistance from powerful vested interests, the Parliament adopted a new law on public
procurement inJuly 2006, with manyprovisions that are inline with well accepted international
practices. GOBis now finalizing the rules to implement the law, and, inthe interim, is using the
rules andregulationsbased on the Executive ordinance that was the precursor for the law. The
law has introducednew standard biddingdocuments, which significantly reduces the layers inthe
procurement approval processes. The Government has also put into place a uniqueprocurement
tracking and monitoring system that linksan e-procurement with a management information
system, which i s being piloted ina few agencies. However, there are still a number o f cross-
cutting governance, institutional, and implementationissues including inadequate enforcement o f
regulations, delays inaward, and allegations o f fraud and corruption. The problem o fpolitical
interference has been effectively effaced by the care taker government, at least for the time being.

Environmental Aspects

116.     A matrix screeningthe policies supported under the program for potentialenvironmental
impacts i s provided as Annex F. Overall, the program i s environmentally benign, and will not
have significant effects on the environment, natural resources, or forests. Inparticular, the
policies supported under the program do not leadto higher levels o fphysical investment, but
support more equitable access through reductions inthe establishment o fnew schools in
overserved upazilas, balanced by the establishment o f institutions inunderservedupazilas. M o E
has met the trigger for the third credit on preparing and strengthening the environmental
guidelines for school construction under an overall environment management framework.

117.     At the secondary education level, aprincipal environmental concern isthe needto ensure
the provision o f safe drinkingwater at schools, and the provision and maintenance o f adequate
sanitation. To address these issues, IDA has been working with M o E (as part o fthe Second


                                                 31

Female Secondary School Assistance Project currently being implemented) to put inplace
arrangements to guard against the arsenic contaminationo f drinkingwater. The agreed
guidelines are also being used to design and maintain separate toilets for girls and boys. Since
2003, over 1,400 tubewells and latrines havebeen constructed inschools. Wells are also tested
for arsenic every six months and contaminationrates are inthe vicinity o f 15 percent. Inareas
where the wells have been found to be contaminated, M o E has attempted to develop alternative
means to provide arsenic-free water to children.

Monitoring and Evaluation

118.     Improving the quality o f economic and social policies based on objective assessment o f
the outcomes o f any interventiondemands timely and reliable information. The PRSP outlines a
monitoring framework, which includes monitoring indicators, data sources, and institutional
arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback to policymakers. Sources include existing
data as well as planned annual surveys for tracking intermediate indicatorsrelated to access,
usage, and quality o fpublic services. This i s more pertinent ineducation sector and is
pronounced with considerable emphasis inMoE's third phase o freform initiatives. Inorder to
adequately evaluate the quality and impact o f educational services, mechanisms have been put in
place for timely and reliable data at various levels: household (and intra-household level to
examine issues such as gender); school level data (e.g., quality o f infrastructure, teacher
characteristics, measures o f governance, pupillearning); resource flows inthe education sector
(e.g., expenditure tracking data at the school-level). Apart from the countqwde data acquisition
systems like HIES, BBS's data collection, MoEhas its own mechanism to collect data through
BANBEIS and DSHE. Some o f these data are obtained through an annual self-reporting system
with a mechanism inplace through the district education offices and through sample survey to
systematically cross-check the veracity of the data. Some o fthese data are collected through
specialized surveys conducted by government agencies (e.g. BANBEIS) and independent third-
parties (e.g., study on teacher absenteeism). Then a periodic census ineducation sector by
BANBEIS, roughly every five years, brings out the fuller picture.

119.     Annex C discusses how the ESDSC program as a whole is monitored and evaluated, and
what steps are beingtaken to improve the quality andreliability o f data collected by the
BangladeshBureauo f Educational and Information Statistics (BANBEIS).

120.     Household Data. The Bureau o f Statistics (BBS) carries out nationally representative
household surveys such as Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) every five years.
HIES provides an important basis for updated poverty monitoring and analysis. Besides
systematic welfare measures (e.g., consumption-based poverty headcount), theses household
surveys play a critical role inproviding another source o f independent data on critical educational
outcomes (e.g., primaryschool completion rate).

121.     Successful monitoring depends critically on institutionalarrangements andtheir capacity.
A National Poverty FocalPoint (NF'FP) has been created inthe General EconomicsDivision
(GED) o fthe PlanningCommissionto monitor povertyand track progress inimplementingthe
national strategy for economic growth and poverty reduction. The NPFP i s expected to grow and
function as an institutionally effective and technically competent Poverty MonitoringUnit with
strong inter-ministeriallinkages and interactions with various stakeholders outside the
Government.

122.    School-level Administrative data. BANBEIS collects/compiles critical post-primary-
school level data on enrollment, age and gender distribution, certain measure o f school efficiency


                                                 32

(e.g., drop-out rate), teacher characteristics, school infrastructure, and school type (government,
private nonreligious, religious). BANBEIS, established in 1977, is the primary technical arm of
the MoEwhich hasbeen maintaining severalpost-primary education and GIS mapping database
systems. While the basic structure of BANBEISis sound, the system is now being further
strengthenedto increasethe frequency at which it collects certain critical data, cross-check the
veracity o fthe self-reported school data, and establish linkages with other essential data systems.
As described earlier, MoE is currently working towards addressingthese issueswith atime-
bound action planand adequateresource allocation for this important work.

123.      Third-partySurveys. MoE is inthe processof incorporatingfindingsfrom various
independentthird-party surveys on important measures o f system quality ranging from teacher
absenteeismto public expendituretracking. One important change inthe mindset observed i s the
fact that such independent studies are now taken seriously. For example, EducationWatch
reports by CAMPE are now much more seriously considered inpolicy discussions.

124.      Based on these data, the key indicators that are being monitoredduringthe medium-term
include: (a) pass rates instandardized examinations; (b) teacher absenteeismrates; (c) gross and
net enrollment rates (including enrollment rates ofthe poor); (d) dropout rates; (e) completion
rates; and (f) proportion o f public resourcesbeing accessedby the poor. As it will be important
to monitor whether Bangladesh will be able to maintain its impressive progress towards gender
parity, these results are beingdisaggregatedby gender. Furthermore, regular evaluations of
policies andprogramswill also be carried out to inform MoE o f how to better redesign its
interventions to help achieve education targets.

Poverty and SocialImpacts


                                                                            secondary (11percent) education
       Flgvre I   DImbutbmMPUbllS R..OU~WS PSeconduy EduCaUOnbyCIUntll..    are hightojustify government
   I                                                                        investment inthe sub-sector. In
   Lo                                                                       particular, secondary education
   31

 ..                                                                         for females isthe best investment
   P                                                                        from boththe individual's and
   16                                                                       society's point of view as shown
   20                                                                       by the private and social rate o f
   I5                                                                       return o f about 19percent and 21
   10                                                                       percent respectively (see Annex
    5                                                                       G). Simulations also show that a
    0
            01           m                  03               01             package o f reforms aimed at
                                        03"Ill"
                                      rnC"rnn(    O P D n m .               improving system governance




126.      One o f MoE's goals is to make accessto education more equitable. The public secondary
education spending accessedby the poor decreases by grade as the poor are more likely to drop
out at higher grades. Steps beingtaken inthis direction have beenhighlighted in Section IV.
Earlier,an attempt was made to simulate the impact ofthese reforms on the distribution ofpublic
resources over the years. According to the results ofthat simulation, (see Figure l),            the
distribution of public expenditures was expectedto becomemore pro-poor as a result o fthe



                                                                33

measures taken by the Government. The proportion ofpublic resourcesbeing accessedby the
poor insecondary education was anticipated to rise from 24 percent in2002 to about 33 percent
in2008. Recent analysis shows that by2005, theproportion went upto 27 percent. Analysis is
underway to understand further developments over the past year. Ifthe trend continues, the
reformmeasures will make more resources available to the poor at the secondary level.

LessonsLearned and Benefits and Risks

LessonsLearned

127.     The third Education Sector Development Support Credit builds upon the lessons learned
duringthe implementationo fpreviousESDSC's, and the DSC's. Some o fthe key lessons
incorporated into ESDSC I11are as follows:

   For these reforms to succeed, continuedpolitical commitment o f the Government to these
   reforms, its ownership o f the results and public receptivity o f the reform initiatives are
    critical. Although a Caretaker Government i s now incharge, ownership o f the education
   reforms i s now even more pronounced than before. Continuedbacking o f the process by the
   highest levels o f government, and tough measures when needed (e.g., inthe case o f
   reconstitutingthe SMCs/GBs) have ensured that special interest groups have not been able to
    derail key reformmeasures.
    It is important that the programmatic approachremainsflexible enough to accommodate
    lessons learned from ongoing activities and changes ingroundrealities-while maintaining
    overall coherence and direction o fthe reform. Findinga home for coordinationo fteacher
    education i s a case inpoint. While the goal remains the same, to train the in-service teachers
    andenhance the quality o fteacher trainingprovidedby various agencies, the Government
   revisitedthe plannedinstitutional mechanism to ensure its targeted achievement.
   Well-designed education reforms enjoy considerable popular support. One significant aspect
    o fthese reform initiatives inthe education sector is that itnever faced any insuperable
   resistance althoughthere were a number o f measures that hurt the vested interests,
   particularly the powerful political circles. Besides, extensive consultations with government
    officials and other stakeholders at the central, district, and upazilla levels engendered a wide
   buy-infor thesereforms from key stakeholders.
   The success o f these reforms depends considerably on technical capacity, and effective use o f
    data generated from monitoring and evaluation o f specific programsand the system in
    general, for planningpurposes. To this end, institutional development i s the key.
   Understandably, it takes time for these institutional development measures to show positive
   outcomes, but the implementationo f these measures inthemselves constitute a strong signal
   about the seriousness of the Government to ensure the desired impact. For example,
   revamping the capacity o f BANBEISas an independent data source was partially
   unsuccessful inthe past because o f the perceived severance from the "power" element. This
   has been corrected by a circular from MoE, signed by the Secretary himself, making
   cooperation with BANBEIS bindingfor all institutionsand government agencies.
   Developmentpolicy lending strongly needs complementarity with investment projectsto
    follow up on actual implementationo fpolicybased actions. Inthe present case, puttingthis
   education development support credit insync with Female Secondary School Assistance
   Project supported by the Bank and some interventions supported by ADB were found
   considerably helpful, particularly ininstitutional development and sustainability    .




                                                 34

0   Triggers also need to emanate from comprehensive analytical work to ensure well-designed
    reforms. MoEhas continuedto commission in-depth studies in selected areas. Reforms have
    been informed by these analyses, and relevant work undertaken by development partners.
0   The more checks andbalances are institutionalized, the better i s the chance to curb
    corruption. Ifthe decision malung authorities and authority to evaluate those about whom
    decisions are to be made are inthe same hands, the risk o f corruption is higher. The
    experience suggests that distribution o f these authorities at different points andmaking them
    impersonal and less discretionary payoffs.

Benefits and Risks

128.    Improving governance has repeatedly been identified as the biggest development
challenge facing Bangladesh and the greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and
thus achieving thepovertyreductionMDG. Theproposed credit will assist indeepeningreforms
aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery, and at the same time improving equity o f access
to secondary education. By tying performance inprovision of education to incentives, and
buildinggreater accountability and community participation, these reformswill reducerent-
seeking opportunities and unduepolitical interference and enhance cost-effectiveness.

129.    It is intendedthat these reformswill leadto outcomes such as more equitable accessto
secondary education with more schools being set up inunderserved areas, better trained andmore
effective teachers, reduced teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates, and
reducedtime to complete the secondary cycle. This will ultimately leadto a more skilled labor
force attuned to the needs o f the Bangladeshi labor market as well as raising its competitiveness
inglobalmarkets.

130.    There are potentially some social costs associated with the project -e.g. the
government's decision to stop subvention payments to under-performingschools unless they
improve their performance, will lead to unqualified teachers being potentially laid o f f by private
schools. However, these are far outweighed by the long-termbenefits o f good quality secondary
education being provided in schools with well-qualified teachers.

131.    The program does entail significant risks, and many o f these remain the same as was the
case with ESDSC Iand 11. The key risks andthe riskmitigation strategy are outlined inTable 5
below.




                                                  35

                                 Table5: Ke: tisks and RiskMitigation Strategies
Risks                                                                     RiskMitigationStrategy
Macroeconomic The main economic risk            The Bank has worked closely with GOBon this issue, continually
stems from the weak financial condition o f     encouraging depoliticization o fprice adjustment, andproviding on-
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), especially      demand analytical notes to help informGOB'Sdecision. Authorities have
those inthe energy sector. Sustained large      already respondedby implementing power tariff increases inMarch 2007
losses of the energy sector SOEs have ledto a   and fuel price increases inApril 2007 to stem losses at the Bangladesh
build-upof outstanding liabilities at these     Petroleum Corporation (BPC) and the Bangladesh Power Development
SOEs and have also exacerbated the financial    Board (BPDB), respectively. To address the risk from low tax
fragilities of the nationalizedcommercial       mobilization, authorities would need to step up implementation o f the tax
banks (NCBs) that are directed to finance       administration modernization program (being supported by DFID and
their losses. Another important source o f      IDA) alongwith legislative reforms to correct major tax policy
economic vulnerability i s the persistently low distortions and strengthening o f customs administration.
tax mobilization.
Political: Sustaining the political commitment  Lessons o f experience show that so far, successive governments have
to reform. While key stakeholders inthe         continuedto implement ongoing educationprograms andpolicies, and
Government are committed to reforms, the        this trend continues rather more forcefully with the Care-Taker
sustainability o f the reformprocess put in     Government andwith stakeholder support. Itwill thus be difficult for
train by the CTG will be linkedto the           vested interest groups to subvert these reforms without meeting
commitment of any future government to the      significant resistance from stakeholders.
reformprocess as well as the smooth return to
democracy.                                      The public discourse for educationreforms inthe changed political
                                                environment continues to gain momentum. This has to be sustained over
                                                the longer term for reforms to continue.

                                                The bilateral development partners are taking the lead inworking with
                                                domestic civic organizations and with the government to helpan early
                                                and smoothreturn to democracy. The Bank is vigilant about the
                                                emerging political environment and inclose contact with various actors.
Corruption. Inthe past, there have been         A key objective o fthis reformpackage is to buildgreater transparency
allegations of corruption and resources meant   and opennessinthe system and ensure greater community participation.
for education have sometimes been captured.     Through conducting and disseminating results o f expenditure tracking
                                                surveys, stakeholders are made aware o f how resources meant for the
                                                system are being utilized. These reforms are likely to make it much more
                                                difficult to engage incorrupt practices. NTRCA's screening mechanism
                                                has effaced malpractices inteacher recruitment, at least for now.
                                                Transparent selection process for textbooks and competitive production
                                                o ftextbooks have largely reduced rent-seeking intextbook production
Capacity. Givenrelatively low government        MoE is cognizant o f its capacity constraints. Several measures are being
capacity, implementation o freforms ina         taken to alleviate this problem. Particular emphasis has beengiven to
                                                building technical planning capacity and focusing the ministry's role on
                                                formulating policies, financing, setting quality standards, assuring quality
                                                delivery, andmonitoringand evaluation. The capacity ofDSHEand
                                                BANBEIS i s also being enhanced. Towards strengthening local level
                                                capacity, oversight committees have beenformed ineach o f the districts
                                                andupazillas to monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure
                                                o f information. The strategy also relies on strengthening school
                                                management committees to give them greater responsibility regardingthe
                                                supervision o f schools. MoE is following a comprehensive plan for
                                                teacher training. This will hopefully leadto higher quality of services.
                                                GOB has taken several steps to address the weaknesses. Significant
spending inBangladesh i s high.                 progress has beenmade over the last few years to strengthen financial
                                                management and reduce fiduciary risks. The GOB has continuedits
                                                PFMreformplans, as evidenced bythe ongoing DFID fundedFinancial



                                                            36

Risks                                                                   RiskMitigation Strategy
                                              Management Reform Promam (FMRP), which started in2003, and
                                              implementation o f other aspects o f thereform program described inthis
                                              ProgramDocument. A s a part o f the review o f Institutional
                                              Arrangements for public expenditure, financial management and
                                              procurement, Bangladesh's P F M system was rated against internationally
                                              accepted indicators (PEFA). This provides a useful framework to track
                                              progress towards improved P F M performance against annual bench
                                              marks that are inthe process o f being established.


Budgetary Risk: Fungibility o f funds implies The Government, however, has a good record o f allocating public
that budgetary resources may be diverted or   spending to key development sectors, including social spending and
misused, which poses a particular risk to     infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements and
operations, such as ESDSC 111.                financial management within government ministries (including MoE) has
                                              been strengthened with DFID's assistance. External oversight by the
                                              Comptroller andAuditor General's office is also inplace. Further,
                                              tracking studies o fmajor spending on education also is evidently curbing
                                              leakages. These measures should mitigate budgetary risks, but their
                                              effectivenesswill depend crucially on the swift resolution o f serious
                                              financial irregularities, identifiedby the C&AG, and on readiness by the
                                              Finance Ministry to impose financial sanctions on errant agencies and
                                              programs. The FMIP o f M o E addresses some o f these concerns.

Financing. Owingto the uncertain external     While there are concerns about the uncertain external environment, the
environment, the government's ability to      PRSP clearly demonstrates the Government's commitment to
maintain its commitment to the sub-sector     maintaining a highlevel o f investment inthe education sector. The
may be an issue.                              recent dialogues with the Care-Taker Government c o n f i i the continuity
                                              o f the commitment. This commitment has been further strengthened
                                              through measures which are aimed at allocating resources more
                                              efficiently andreducing leakages from the system.




                                                         37

                                                                                                          Annex A




 Subject: EducationScctar DevelopmentSupport Credit.

          Pleasefindnlwckcdthe Letts of Seetor Policywith a requestfor the third EducationSector
 r)evelopment SuppmC&t &omIh: Ayub Quadri,Adviser, Ministry ofEducation.

          A s you how, Bangladtsh has made significant proms in access to education and substantive
 systemic reforms inthe ekation sectoroyer the p s iyears with support from fDA. The new Care-Takcr
 Government km furlher hlmercd the reform initiatives with some coumgeous steps which were
 consideredpoliticdillyvery challenginginthe past. The newGovernment3s fully cornnutredto deliwmg
 the public pod to those who needit most As you wili notice in the tetter o f Sector Policy, a numberof
measures have been taken to channel ~ s o mmt for educatmn to the poor children. panicularmrfy
                                                   m
those who are disadvantaged for various ~~asans. med to consolidatetbae ~ & R S enhance ~CCCSS
                                                  We                                   and
to educationfurther. At the same time, we alsa needlo focus moreon tqmvmp educationquality at all
Iegcls. The Government is workingtowardachievingthese objectiveswth fait commitment.

          Dt.Quadri's letterhiflights the keyreformareasmsecondary andhighersecbnda?. editcation:
(i)improvingsyssremmamgernent,(ii)       enhmcingtcacher etfleclismessandfiii)   curriculummod textbock
reforms. Iwould like to reiteratesomeof &e crucial reformsbeingundertaken.

          -ut the ma of sysarn managemeat, we are puttingemphasison msparency m die estabilshment
and fmmcing of schools, access to educationfor %e most disads.antaged. str@gthening of nionltorrltg
md cvaluarionrnech&xns and grater cornunity vigilance. We are also yadually moving toward a
gmfs-bascdf i c i n gsystemwhereresoumzswould folfuw &e students, not theteachers.

         Improvingteachereffectivenessrequirts hsulspmcy inthe teacher remitmentprocess, ~ ? t mag
p o l ofquabfiedpatentidteacha and havinga system mplaceto continually upgradethc skills of the in-
.mic7&   tmcbers. To this end, m autonomous Non-governmentTeacher Regstration and Cerrificatiori
Authority (EiTRCA) has been established, which has designed and $tarfed unplementmgstandsdrmd
and transparmr criteria for crrtifying reachtmbased on competitive exanunatians. n e ~OVentRlcntIS
also puttinginpiacean i ~ i ~ ~ ~mechanismto ~ l
                                       ~ i ~ j o n coordinateactivities for impr0i;ementof die qualiry of
~ b - s e ~ cteach&-$, and setting standards and monitoring !nechan;sm to oversee the quality of teacher
               e
trainingcoIleges,bothpubhc andpnvate.

         hthe area of textbook md curriculum reform, the prodluclionof tzxtbooh for scconds~
education has now hcm made fully conqeritive. Tranqmnt critcna are followd in cvaluatuig
manuscriptsby learns ofpmfccssionalexyms.Schools are free u1choose die booksfrom the mwkath~y
want `io use in iheir rcp2ctive schools. This competition has resulted in significant improvemmnzin the
qualityofbooks.7"ne booksalso reachthe childrenon h e . %hilt: achievementswequite significant.
                                                                   the
wt: still have a long way to go in mmring accss to quality secon,?ary education for all chiMren of
Bangladesh.
                                                                                             Contrf ..E




                                                         38

                      : 2 :




Mr.PaulWotfowitz
President
TheWmldBank
1818HStreet,.rn?
WashrigtonLX 20433
7"J.S.h.




                          39

                                                              . . ... . .


                                                                                Ayub Quudri
                                                                                      Adviser
                                                                              Minimy dEducation
                                                                    3liaisti-y of Prirnar?.6;: Mass Fducatron
                                                                          h.finis*j?, ufCu11unlAffairs
                                                                       People's Kepttkrlis uf Baagldrsh




 Subject: KducalicmSector DeveiopmenlSupport Credit: Letter of Sector Folic?

 Dear Mr. U'olfctwitr,

         It is knownm you &ai recently Bangladeshhas gone throughsome political unrest. The stand-off
 hetwwn the two m a p political alliances fojlowing the cnd of &e tern of the previow eleccled
 Chvernrncnt and their irreconcilable disagreement on &e choice of key public oficials md the
institutional arrangement for the election to Bangladosh's 9'  Parliament led the counuy to what was
 perccived to be m insxabiiity. liowcva. this was finally averted by the dwlarallon of an emergency on
 fanumy 1 I.2007 and e change in the Care-Taker G o v m m t . Tbe ne%Care-Taker Govenuneni is
w,mmnittedtu transferringpower io an eIcc~edGovernmentar the earIiosr, once the conditions for a five.
 Farr and credibit elemon we in place. The Government fitts @en a number of courageoussteps along
that direction which have drawn considerable applause both from inside the country and from the
inkmation& community.

         Amidst many odds, Bangladesh hasmaintaineda strongwonornic perfomaxe over the past few
ymrs. The Government has taken significant actions to stabilirx: the mcroeconomic envimnmem and
improve governance. Economk p w t b in FY06reached a historic hi& of 6.7 percent, reflecringstrong
growth in industry and agriculture. Dom~ticdemand and investment have remained buoyant. Exports
and reniittanceshave gown strongly, cantrhutingto a s q l u s in tlie current aCwunf in FYOB. By mid-
March 1007, these mllchedf $4billion. Amording to the latest HouschnldIncomeand Expenditure Survey
tHfES). the proportion of people h h g in p v ~ t fell &Om&I
                                                    y           pltrc%riS Z(tot, 10 40 percent in ZOOS,
uttk (he proportionofthose inhardcorepoverty failing from 34 percenf to 25 percent. Ruralpoverty felt
front 53 percent to 34 percentandurbanpoverty from37 percentto29 percent.

         The country prepareda PovertyReduction Strategy Paper (FRSP) thmugha processofextensive
comuttahw with various stakeholdersond human resource development is ai the core of Bangladesh's
devulopmsnt effons. We believe that access to quality education is critical to pvenq' reduction md
cwonornx dcvclopmenr. The nation's connnitment to ducaiion has beenclearly stated inthe constitution
and 11s developmcnt plans. Educationexpenditures are currently about 2.3 percent of GDP aid 16.8
percent of 'lotit1 govanirnent budpa.     This allocation has progressively increased siricc 2003 and
education 6ontinucs to receive fhc highest budgetmy allocations among all seciufs. We undmtand rhar
      ustainedcowmiirnent is imperanve111order to achieve the MillcnniurnDevelopment Goals (NDGs)
      ie Covenunent's o w goal of humanre~ourcedevelopment.

         Also. oier the last feu years, the Govement has undertaken a number of inponmr smcturdl
refoncs in order to hn      significant improvements in the education sector. Some of the results are
aiscody visible. These       ons demonstrate the Government's committnenr to acrelmte growth and
rcducr povcrc) ihpoughsusraindimprovemen?in education.

         The Bank has supportedthe impicmentarionof'the first two phases of hese refcrms tkrough two
credits uch worth I;SSIO#      milirrin disbursed in late 2oo.J and earl? 2006.       Givm the postrivt:
~chie~czitns.   some of which are highjightedbelow, ihc Governmen: is sceking supyon for a tfnird credit
{if t'S5100 million to dcepcn the rcf6ms. 'This will lead to a,enificnmnt progress towards achieving
iniprowd se:tor governance andensuringhighquaiiiy and quitable education.




                                                        40

&?ctnr &dig?~iiird

        The management of the educazion system falls under two mtnisrrics. The Mmisrry d P n m q
an3 Mass Education (MOPME) is responsible for p n m q educnrion and the Mmsuy of Z1d~ca:iqm
(VnF)looks after secondary. vocauonal mnd trnmav education. Overall, ;here are more rhan 16million
srudanis at the pnmaq level, and oyer eight mmllton at the sccondnry ievel. Eimlinie~sat 111erc~nap
level are sr1f1reiati\aiy sinall-about 12 percent of the total higher secondary pduatss    -butha!c   t i x
potential ofwpid growth wiih the expansion ofprmteprowion of tertiary rducmon.

        Bangladesh has:made significant progress, esprciailyin increasingaccess and achieving gender
equity, bothai thc pnrr;UTand secundq levels. Grosc pnmary cnrollimnt rate rose h m 90 pcrcertt in
rhe late ?Wasto 9'.6 perm: ZD.10C5, while 8`; iht secondary b e l it rose from a scmy 2C1 percent in
early 1990s to 47 perccnr in 2005. ??le achievement is beiter understood pafi~culsul~         when it 15
juxti~posedagamst the bnseline of tlic car!y 1990s and when compared to countries tn South A m mil
other cuuiitr~csat smlar levels ofpr-cnpita income. 0 t hspectacular achievements are genderponi?111
access both at prtiay and secondary levels rind provision of secund chwce education As you know.
Bangladesh 1s sbou-eased all mer the world for these trchiesemmfs and JEnmdefs are beingrqltcazed
Indifferentcountria.

        However, challenges in the education sector are strll formidable. While the n~onicnrumin
tncreasingaccess at all Icvels. particularly among the disadvantagedcomnmunirfss. has to bc $ustame&
the counQ needs to put major emphasis aiso on %hequality of educaricrn in order     EO  enfiance lea-ntnp
outcomes, `reacher atsenweism. now found to be 11 per cent. is not very highcomparedto other Snulh
.4sian countries, taut certainly here is room for further irnprovenmt. Sonre pockets of the coumy.
inhabitedby disadsantagcdpeople. are still underserved and the situationlooksfar worse frurn h e poinr
of view of quality of education provided to the children m those ares. The relevanceof curriculum
needs to be updated Low completion rate is 8lso mo&er concern. On]?,20 percent of the studenrs
entering Grade 6 complete secondary education, One has 10 lake into cognizance. the socio-bconomic
factors that contribute to this grim scenuno. Accountabihty and rncentive mechanrsn?s. checks aad
bataxices for students, teacbers and s&~m~sm~oss, information support for policy fonnulatian eiid
                                                    rhe
capacity for planningat differmr lev& destrveconsiderablemprovement.

GOBCommitment

        The Govcmnent is stron& cormnitred to addressing these issues through refom across the
educationsystem. At the primarylevel,the MinistryofPrimarymd Masseducationis irnplerncnungthe
secondPrimaryEducationDevelopmentPropmi (PEDP II)a sut-yeaear sub-seetor wide progum \thlch
                                                              -
aims to strengthen educationalaccess, quality and elrjciency. 'Ihe progamis substiintiafly supportedhq a
group of deselopmunrpartners. bothbilatsre!mdmuftilateral. .4iso, to ensure second chanceeducation
for those who are left our at the primary level, the Government 1s unplamentinga ReacliingOut-of-
School Children I'roject with suppor~froin IDA ad SDC

        Inordmto addressissuesax thesecondaryandhighersecondarylevefs,the Minisay ofEducation
has been iniplcnienhag a comprehensive medtutn-%mi reform framework fwusing on quality
enhmcernent, policy measurcs and systemic iniprovemeiit The fmmewxk w a ~dweloped through
ex~msiveconsullaiionsand workshops with stakeholders at tlic central, district, and upwh lewis In
shoh rile m m ohpmve of reforms IS w addrrss systmn~cy.wernance issues in order to raise the quality
and cost-rffecuvenessof service deliwry, and mniproveequity o f access tn secondary educatian. Indxs
cfcon, IDA bas alread?supportedihtGovernmentwtii two EitucanonSectorDevelopmentCredils in3'04
and T.1`06 `ne Govameni1s now seekingassismce froinIDA to furtherdeepen these refon%.

Socunduty Ediicti:ian Reforms

        The Gowxn~~mruncicnakingreforms in three key areas ofsccundq educuncm. tal Systcmic
                           IS
uzipprovcmcnt 20 ensure better perfonnmce o f institutions. greater eK~cic%cy,cormnunlty pXilCIpQtlLY3
and trmgarency ix rcwurce aliocitron: (0) rttiicfierCffeClIVCiiCSS through development of 8 transpsent




                                                          41

  aad high quality teacher recruitnlmt and trsintiigsystem; and (c) currtculitn?and textbook tmiprosemmt
  ihrovgh effccnve sepft'zrion of Amctions and open coqetition in textbook prcrducraon. "[Tiese are
  disttsszd below

  (a) Imprvvenreim iii SjyrcnricMnnagmrmr

          The ot?jccii\m we to                                            uae and ifl location of resources.
 1nc~easscthe aCC0U:ltablIily of 1                                       focal s:akeholdcrs, and develop 3
 more det.olved andefficienr n a                                         1 peatcr slakeholder i ~ v o lemertt
                                                                                                       t

 Scliortt Hqisrrariuii and Fmancmg

            ccognizingcapacity Constzamts IR efYecttvcly monitoringsecondan. scitooi eslablrstrrnenr and
            n. MoE is implmmnng an approach where competitively selected indepmdcnt senwe
            are Lxiirusicd with the responsibility of evaluating the readiness of schoc~ls~colleges      for
 csrablishmentor recognition.

          Schools are now Anmcmf inmucli inore trtuisparent way, MoE has mhrc&?criteria shich fink
 Monthly PayOrder (MPO]subvenoons to pcrfonnance(ingrade 10andgrade I 2 exunmtions) Earlier.
 1300poorly ~   W ~ O R I Uxtsiitutionsu
                           R ~          ere servednotice that their subventionswould bc stopped w&tn a
 year unhs thsy improved their performance. Many of them improved ttiev periommice. Sorne 368
 WorSf performing insrirutionswere barred from receiving subvention suppon in 3005 and 2006 Tnwe
 a~fioiissen1 a strong message down the system and alerrsd the whole s~ondwyeducation systcin. tbe
 outcomeo fwhich was visible m the progressiveimprovementin the resultsof the terminal trxamtnatmns
-arisefrom40%in2003io59%in2004inSSCandborn38% in2003to64%m2004inHSC.'IO
 sustain this improvement, 2608 schools which showed siylificanl improvementin perFcirmmce ~nSSC'
 exa.mmationswere givenmcentivt swards. Intakingthis action. MoEhasbeencareful notto panelm the
 schools in the disadvantagedweas sewing less pnvileges comunitics. Rtlther, a number o f rnemms
 have been taken to idenufy the corntrams of the schools in the daadvanmged weas and help them
perfonnbetter.

          MPOs are also not being issued to new institutions until they can demonstrate that they nieet
pdonnance and geographicalcntnia. A seriesof further actionshavebeenundertaken.For example, (1,
standardized examinations are instituted at @e         eight to measure learning achievements across
instirutlons;(ii) grade six exminations are beingundertaken to asses the quafit')' of incomingsWlents
tnto the secondary cycle; (iii)the composinonand functionsofschool magmerit conunitteeshavebeen
reformulatedto ensure more communityinvolvementin monitoringinstitutional achies; {iv) results af
grade 8-10and 12standardize<cxmma:ions, a d the namesofschoolsnot meetingpcrfomaiice criteria
we now published and disseminated natronai1y to ensure that stakeboldcrs have complete !nfonnatioza
dmtir school perfommice vis-a-v~sother bstitutionsatid (11) the fmancial managementsystem timughout
the sub-sector is bchiystremfmed to ensure greater transparancy and accounrabiky.

          %%le these systemc chsngcshavebeen institutionahzed,MoE is plmiqg to sliifi graduhlly to a
gmrs-based financing system where resources going to institutions will be linked more closely to [he
student on a per-capitabasis, rather than to teachers as is the pracfice now. hi that case, rhe schoolsu7ttl
not direc:?\ receive 53kries for reachers but will beprovidedI,piants that cm be usedto pay teachers8s
                                                                       -
sell as for other quality-enhmcingpurposes. Grater grants a41 also be tied to better perfornmce
giving ilsrrongincerttivz 10 thc schools to stay focusedOR performmutce.This will also enharice flcxrbilny
of the schuo'ls to clioose the proper mix between salaries and traching4carning inpiirs. Cenainly. his
wouid beoneofthe toughest refrmsto imnplementtis nwould meandeiiniiingteachers' salaries from the
national pay scale. Howe\w, t i e Government is conlnrittcdto implerrmungit inorder IO ensure grcawr
accounabi!try to the smke rexipieats and a strong incentive to enhance quaiin. m and access rn
lircandiwy educaao.n As a fir51 step. MoE intends to pilot it with new schools which are nor recetvitsg
subvcntlan now and are aqirant o: getting support from &e Government. The schools hove hem
fdenrifird A draft pol-rcybzs 'seenprepared and tlie Minisnyis now also workingon the implemairstion
andinonitonngmechmismsfor thepilor




                                                           42                               P' I

 Ar.ccss oJ&e Poor $5SecondaryEducution

         MoE realizes that the tightermg of cnteria in school financing and regicrralion nccds fo he
 balanced with np2ropriatr mmsures to ensure g~eater access, particu?ar!y,for relz~rvclypoomr areas
 which might be c)diewise adverse)? affected. Actions arc: under way in this regad BAYREIS has
 uridenakena school mappingexercise, 'f'tiis hns helpedbloE tdenhfy 115 'owrsened" upiltilas wfiert' :IO
 n w schools and colleges will be subsidized by the Govemmcni for two yews. In 00 'underssmed'
 mpuilas 2111s $den2fied, hlo': IS providing support to set up ywernmen! scliools aiid 1s oEcnng
 incentivesto pnrate providers to set upiexpandschools. 25 new schools have already been esublished.
 Thrs smaiion wifl bereassessed on a remixbasis.

.4 dwtmi.wixlrun and MunttoriBg utid Kijuluntrnn

         MoE 1s moving tonturds 9 devol\,ed sqstem o f govmrtnce W&WI ik currml ~dmi~tstra~tvt
 stnlcturc. In thts system, the central Cotwnxnent will be responsible for formulating policies. financtag,
 scrtmg quufity standards, and inonrtorrngand enluatron e x , while lower levels of poieminent will be
 responsible for admistenng the system and ensuring accountability a1 the local 1cr.d. MoE has
 empowred ofl.ici&     at the drstrict and upaila iwels to take greater respunsibiliein monitoringschool
ptrfommceandensure public disciosureof informauon (e.& SSCpassrates, zeacher absenreeisni,cfass
sues. etc.1 related to school quality. As a result of these iiiewures, some sipinicinnt pos
already visible. For example, teacher absenteeism was: down to 11 percent in 2005 Eromdie haselme of
 17 prceni in 2003 The Govenunent o%ci& at &e field clam that the sinlation has further rmprowd
over h e past two years

         Fwrctionaldevolutionwilt also invofverestructuringofthe Directorateof Secondary and Nigher
Education (DSllE) and associated org~nmnons.Ihc Government wit1 undertake an mpruzationaf
analysis to recommend institutional changes that need to be imptcmentcd. hlsE's planning und's
capaciv is bemg strengthened. Concuncndy, the capacity of BAWSEIS, the agency responsible for
educat~onstatistics and monitoring. is also being enhanced. This will emwc a grata connectton
between appropriate information and policy and planning, as opposed 10 episodic actions of &liepast
niasdy influenced by political considerations. In this effort, MoE 'IS insotutlngperiodic sun'eys to tfdck
outcomes and pubb mpmdituns and undertakingrigorous evaluation methods of its progams and
poltcres to improvethsk designand effectiveness. Furthermore,to ensureappropriatefinancial con!rofs,
MQE staned implcrnen?ing a Financial Refom Management Program. 'Ihis is intended to i n c m
accountabiltryand trruxiparencyin the use ofresources.

Si&dialders' invokwrmr

         It IS imperative that Schoof Management Commiitees (SMCs) and College GoverningBodies
:C;Bs?beempowered. They are the key mines at the com%unitylevel who Inanage schools andmonitor
school perfonnance, IhtRegulationson ManagingConmttets havebeen amended fo eastire that only
the Depury Comnussioners (TtCs), Upmh Nirbahi Officers (WOs), or rexired gov-rnment o4f7cials
nnminakxibythem, can chairSMWGBs, andthaf any particular individual (other t?ianDCsand 18Ckl
cannot chau more than four comtttces. 31shas significantly bzough? down the undue pdlKlC31
influence on ananagcmcn! of school affairs md recruitment of racbers. In&e pat. thew wcre mstllnces
of a polrticafly lnfluenriul individualchamng 50 such committees To create morc space for memingiul
CQITEIIU~I~~  panicnpariun. MoE issued an order a?Scwcrnher 2006 to reconstitute the SMCs whrch are
sill poiiucally mfiuenced. .4s an interim mmg~rnentunul elechons to these cominitrees, relevant
Government offici& havebeengiven the rcsponsibitit) IO chair those SMCs. Simultimeousfy%        tnintng1s
being providedto the members ofthe SMCs on their roles and responsibiirries. 50111:: 126.000 mrsnbers
fro:n SMCs a:id Parents l'eacliers Assucttlauonsfrom 6,666 institutions have so far been trained. Also,
incrcascdwomen pmicipattonm managem-Yntbodieshasbeen insrrtutio




                                                          43

 fbj EnAanciixg Teacher Quality

            Ilnder these r e h m initiatives, t$e Government has developed a transparent a d I~gh-4
 system of teacher retrcitrnent and is workmp toward hen.%teacher imformmce evaluation on ihc
 of agreed crttcria and xanduds and a comprehensive tn-service rmcichcrmirtmgsystem, W e rcaiir
 i t 3s diffcult to linpn~vethe quaiity of ail the teachers who a e already in tiic sysiem w i t h a stta:~panod
             IlouLever, 11is possible to bcgm lackling the problem of ieachcr abserileeisn~.prmexit pouri?
           d leachers from anwnng !he sysrern. establisha more effective system ofpre-scn ice training lcld
 graduallym p v e the qualityoitiir reachersalready in;he system.

 Teach-..id ct.er!!iarrttn

            MaE has estabhshed an auionomoilsNational Teacher Regisrration and Cert&catiun Alid~nt?
{NTRCA) ihr~.mghan enactment endorsed by [be F;ational Partianlent. NTRC.4 fias dcs-tgneda set of
s!id;lrdimd and transparent criteria for the recruitment of teachers. The main function of 5131s authority
is to screen. and cer,ify a pool of qualified teachers. This IS helhg done on the basis of academic
qualrficauons and a smndardmd examination conducted on a regular basis The lisr of` ?re-qualified
teachers are published and made available la all concerned.               School Manageinwit Comminecs
(S,tlCs)'Coveming Bodies (GBs)retarnthe authority and flexibiliry to remititreachers. but only fiom this
pre-quaitfied pod. This authority has become fully functional and lias adimnistered the first               IWO
ceriificauon examinations in2005 md2005. EXTRC.4 hs?sceaufiedSome 56,169 candidatmso far

            The imperative to recwit teachers from the cettifi8d pool h a already prowd to be a strong
distnceittive apinsr undueinfluenceon SMCdGBs and a m s t elite captureof these bodies.

TcarlzcrR~7nuncrraiiiin

            Pro\won ofgoodsecondaryeducation largelydependsonattracting goodqunlivteachers Since
some 98 percent of the secundq schools we nou-govexnmnt schools, the Govcment needs to look
Into rmwerabon and incentive smcture for non-government school tcacliers. Parlianient passed
legislatatlon granting pensions to non-govemmt secondary school teachers. Besides, a picture is also
emsrgingfrom the expenditure mckings w e y s as           IO how equitably &e schools art utiliang its awn
resourcesto amct goad leachers apart from the MPOs received from the Government. 711hwdl inform
MaE's policy decisions in near furure. As a next step, MoE will develop a time-hound action plan to
~ddrcas:smes sunnunding the:provisionof incentivesto teacliers, also incongruence with grants-based
financingmechanismt the new schools, which will be irnpiementedwithin the next fca years
                           ~ i

T i u c hTrurnrrigund Stondurds
             ~

           To improve the ijualrty of the teachers who are already in the system, MoE is %*orkingon tJte
b m s of a compreheilstse action plan. Over the past two years. roughly 49.000 secondair sciiuols
Leachers, now in smice, have been trained making the training mdasory for all head reachers. In
addition, 40 mobile teaching resourceteams (M'IXT), each consistingoffour expet?trainer teachers. are
providing trdining sen'ices to the teachers in the remote areas `The Government is now woriiiiig on an
rnstimtionalhome to he gvm thc responsibility for developing teacher mining policies as wcll 8s
conrdifiatmg, regu!ating and c:rta&ting        all terlchm trainmg institutions   -  both ptibiic itnd privarc
Recenlly, a dccism has bezn tlrkca at MuEto create a NationalComcil for Teacher Educarron (SCI't:,
uh!ch \vi11 work in close collaboration with N'iRC.4 to ensure that wachers w d m tile system are
pro~tdsduarnirigto continually uppdetheir skills.NCIX will also look after a set ofteachingstandards
- incfudmga cox framework of s!andsrds spectfyng the mmimumlevel competenciesfor 811teacliers

{c] Strt.ngtiw:in,y Curriculum and Textbooks

           'Ibe m3in OhJeCiiVe of these initiatives k TO improvetransparency inIfre selection and appro1a1of`
textbooks, competitive production of better qttalig. lextbooks in a cosr-offecn~eand rrn?e&manner. m d
:a cnilnncc en~phasison currituiuindcvdopmen:.




                                                                44

          flie NaiioiiaICun~duftr   andTextbookBoardT?jCrB),wiiich filfs uiidsr die authority ofMoE,
  is responsible for crirriculum developimit and textbook production for bo& &e priiiwy a d socotsdimry
  levels, MoE ail& MoPhlE have worked together and festrtlctured NCrB to separate functions of tlie
 textbookand curriculumunits. The cuniculuiiiwingnowexclusively focuses on identifyingsubjecisand
 syllabi; prreparink testing, revising and disseminatingcurriculum docurxtenis; providing training 111;be
 appjicaiion of cwriculuitr; liaising with National Academy for Mucation Manayeinenl (NAEM) aiid
 NationalAwdaiiy of`l'rirnary Education(NAPE) on the treatment ofcurriculum tn teacher training; and
 liaisingwith expo& inexilnsiilationsand assessment on the coverage of curriculunr. The textbook W13g
 is rcsyurisible for aves~ghtof iexhok development,productionand distribution. Ttiese functions are
 now opened tu competition for all textbooks from Grade 6 to 12. Elowever, some books pmdiiced
 competitively foiGrades9 and 10la2005 had tu be witliddrawnwith the postponenienlofintrt,duction of
 a Vtu-track system. TIie policy remains the same and the competitive producth o f thme books will be
 resuinedthis year afier adecisionis &ken onthe unt-iracWinulti-mck curricula.

         NCTB designedtransparentcriteria turder which individiral textbooktnatluscrjpts are evaluated.
 The evaluationis done by a 21-member IndependeatTextbookEvaluationCoinmittee (ITEC) camprising
 specialists hied on the basis of subject expertise. NCTB`s main focus is to regulate this process aid
 stsure Uint it occim hnspmntly. Those tneasures have reduced rent-secking sipiAcantly. Aho, over
 the last three years, die country experienced remarkable inipmvcnieiit in textbook quality and tlrirfly
 distributionofbooks to lfie cliildreu.



         The Govmnmt of Baiglarleshhas continuedto pursueco~nprehensivcrefoms iueducrrtion to
 eiisure accessandquality ducation for aI1children. This is onea mwhere there isa tremendoussupport
 from at1 strata of people. The reform p r v w will continue to remain suelainable bemusc: (a) the
 progam has &.ea developcdthrough extensive consultationswith key stakeholders; (b) this coincides
 with the Govcmmmt's largermedium-temtnlarrocconomic frcunework for refonns,jointly agrced with
 the IMF and the World Bank;(c> Gscdprojections are wnsisttntwilh Bangi&h's            refom needs. with
 increasedmvenue mbilization and bolter prioritizedexpenditures which are the central eiomczib o fthe
 budgetstrategy over the indiumtern; (d) Banglade& is expectedto continue its longstiutdiny traditioil
 of ampbasizing uivefitnrent in tbe social sectofs, patticularlyin educetion; (e} a numbw of iaajor step
 have beenatready undertakento institu~mdh rnlmahzethe reformprocess; and
                                                 and                                    (0these refonns
 are an integral componentoftlie PRSP.

         The Government of Bangladesh, through lhc EconomicRelationsDivision, is reqtiestirigthe IDA
to continue to support its medium-twmeducation reform program. The first two ondits each of        $ilm
million were providcd in 2004 and 2006. As can be seen fiom the discussiun above, the msuIFS of
implementing these reforms have been positive. Refonns an taking root and a third credit would help
the Govemnientdeepen the refom agenda. Given this, a total oFslO0 million is requested for the third
credit. Negotiationsfor this credit are expected10 take place in May2007.

         1have noied with particular satisfaction fhe cooperation between Inceniationaf Dcvelopti~eiit
/\sscxiation andthe Govcminentof BangJgldesishinthe field v feducation, and Ihope that this cooperation
will be furilier strrrt@hened tkuougli IDA'S continued suppoit for Uang$ndesh's cducalioti refnrm
program.

                                                                          Smcercly,
                                                                                    U'
                                                                                  d r i    2ip/cslmjz-


1%.  Paui Wolfowitt
President, T i e World Unnk




                                                         45


Y e

.e
E

.    .I


w . .

vi    x

                  Annex C:Data Monitoring and Performance Evaluation

A. Monitoring and Evaluatingthe ESDSC ReformProgram

1.       The program encompasses a wide range o f institutional and technical reforms. A
standard impact evaluation framework (which at the minimumrequires pre-intervention data, a
well defined control andtreatment group, andpost-interventiondata) cannot be used to assess the
causal impact o f this heterogeneous reformprogram on governance, accountability, and school
quality. This i s different from evaluating the impact o f a project or a specific component o f a
reform program. The reform program does indeed call for more systematic support for rigorous
impact evaluations o f various key interventions inthe education sector. The reformprogram also
calls for strengthening andharmonizing data-systems to ensure that policymakershave access to
timely and credible education data.

2.       All key reform actions inthe series o fthe ESDSCprogrammaticloans are tied to well-
defined indicators which can be monitored-both quantitatively as well as qualitatively. The plan
for evaluating impacts relies on analyzinghousehold and administrative data, as well as using
thirdpartysurveys/rigorous impact evaluations withtechnical support to GOBprovidedbythe
Bank. Inorder to ensure that this happens, the key data sources that are going to be utilized
include:

    HouseholdData. The key data source will be the Household Income andExpenditure Survey
    (HIES) that i s conducted by the BangladeshBureau o f Statistics (BBS) on a regularbasis.
    These household surveys play a critical role inproviding another source o f independent data
    on critical educational outcomes (e.g., primary school completion rate).

    School-levelAdministrativeData. The BangladeshBureauof Educational Statistics
    (BANBEIS) collects/compiles critical post primary -school level data on enrollment, age and
    gender distribution, certainmeasure o f school efficiency (e.g., drop-out rate), teacher
    characteristics, school infrastructure, and school type (government, private, secular,
    religious). These data are going to be collected on a national level every three years and on a
    sample basis annually.

    Third-party Surveys. Additional evaluative information i s being collected usingindependent
    thirdpartysurveys. These include expenditurereviews, surveys to monitoring teacher
    absenteeism, stipend audits, impact evaluation o f the girls' stipend program and the pilot
    means tested stipend program, surveys to cross-check and scrutinize the selection process o f
    the NTRCA, a study to look into the qualitative aspects o f the NTRCA administered tests,
    surveys to better understandthe madrasha education profile inthe country, and surveys to
    examine whether the textbook competition process i s working effectively. Some o f the
    surveys are already completed and others are to be done at appropriate times.

        Baseline data on most indicators has been collected from the HIES and BANBEIS
databases. Evaluation o f the effectiveness o fthe overall reformsprogram will be undertaken
based on the results o f the above mentionedsurveys. The Table below lists the main indicators
that will be measured, the key measurement instrumentddata collection techniques, and the
baseline and target indicators.




                                                 53

Key Reforms                          Measurement               Baseline(ifapplicable),Target
                                       Instruments                Values for Indicators and
                                                                         Achievements

                               Independent third-party     Target value -By 2008, at least 75% o f
reghation and establishment    surveys to examine criteria sampled schools establishedregistered
o f institutions               followed by independently   following proper criteria.
                               hired providers             Achievements by 2006: 60% schools
                                                           registered following proper criteria
                               HIES, BANBEIS school-       Baseline: 24% in2002
Proportion o fpublic resources level data                  Target: 33% in2008
targeted to the poor                                       Achievements: 27% in2005

Improved accountability        BANBEIS school-level        Enrollment Rates bv Gender at vrimaw
through monitoring o f         data, HIES                  and secondaw levels:
expenditures and outcomes -                                Baseline:50% in2003
enrollment rates by gender;                                Target: 50% in2008
gross enrollment rates, pass                               Achievement by 2005: 52%
rates instandardized                                       Gross enrollment rates:
examinations, dropout rates,                               Baseline: 40% in2003
unitcosts per completer                                    Target: 52% in2008
                                                           Achievement by 2005: 57%
                                                           Pass rates in SSCexamination:
                                                           Baseline: 40% in2004
                                                           Target: 55% in2008
                                                           Achievement by 2006: 59.47%
                                                           Drovout rates in secondaw cvcle:
                                                           Baseline: 30% in2003
                                                           Target: 20% in2008
                                                           Unit costs/comvleter:
                                                           Baseline: $150 in2003
                                                           Target: $120 in2008
Enhancedcommunity              Thirdparty qualitative      Target: By 2008, all SMCs/GBs elected
Participation in SMCs/GBs      surveys to study role o f   using new criteria. Qualitative surveys
                               community inschool          show an increased level o f community
                               management                  participation inthe management o f
                                                           institutions.
                                                           Achievements by 2007: All SMCs/GBs
                                                           reconstituted riddingthem o f political
                                                           influences. 126,000 S M C P T A members
                                                           trained about their roles and
                                                           responsibilities
                               Thirdparty qualitative      Target: 50% o f audit objections addressed
management - functional        surveys, administrative     satisfactorily by 2008. Financial
fiancial management unit,      MOE data                    managementunit working effectively.
backlogs on audit                                          Achievements by 2007: Audit objections
reconciliations addressed                                  worth 80% invalue o f the past three
                                                           years resolved.

                               Thirdparty surveys to       Target: NTRCA certificationprocesses
employment o f teachers        scrutinize NTRCA            found to be transparent.
                               processes, BANBEIS          Achievements by 2007: In2006 and
                               school-level data           2007, all new teachers hired inschools
I                                                          are certifiedbyNTRCA.


                                                 54

Key Reforms                            Measurement                 Baseline(if applicable),Target
                                        Instruments                  Values for Indicatorsand
                                                                            Achievements
Improvedteacher quality -       Thirdparty surveys to          Teacher absenteeism:
teacher absenteeism rates,      examine teacher                Baseline: 17% in2003
proportion o f secondary school absenteeism, BANBEIS           Target: 10%in2008
teachers trained                school-level data              Achievement by 2005: reducedto 11%.
                                                               Anecdotal evidence suggests further
                                                               decline inteacher absenteeism
                                                               Proportion of in-service teachers
                                                               trained:
                                                               Baseline: 10% in2003
                                                               Target: 25% in2008
                                                               Achievement by 2007: 20.9%
Textbooks and Curriculum.
NCTB restructuring completed    MOE administrative data        Target: Functional separation o f the
                                                               textbook and curriculum units completed.
                                                               Target met
Enhanced competition in         Thirdparty surveys to          Provortion of books vroduced
textbook production and         evaluate competitive           comvetitivelv:
publishing-competitive          process.                       Baseline: 0% in2003
process inproduction o f                                       Target: 100%in2008.
textbooks, timeliness o f book                                 Achievement by 2006: 100%
distribution, cost of books.                                   Timeliness in book distribution:
                                                               Target: All books distributed before
                                                               beginning o f academic year by 2008.
                                                               Achievement by 2007: Books are all
                                                               distributed before the beginning o f the
                                                               academic year.
                                                               costs:
                                                               Target: Average market costs o f books
                                                               drops by 20% by 2008.
Effective curriculum revision   Thirdparty studies to          Target: Studies show that curriculum
                                evaluate curriculum            revisions have improved curriculum
                                revisions in2009 when the      quality evident inbetter student outcomes
                                first round o f exams will be  in2009exams.
                                held following the new
                                curriculum.

4.        Since BANBEIS data i s a key inputto measuring the impact o f the ESDSC reform
program, improving the quality o f this data i s critical. The section below highlightssome o f the
reformsthat are beingproposed inorder to enhance the effectiveness o fBANBEIS data.

B. Improvingthe Quality ofBANBEISData

5.        BANBEIS, established in 1977, i s the primarytechnical arm o f the MOEwhich has been
maintaining several post-primary education andGIS mapping database systems. The strength o f
any data system has to be measured by the adequacy o f the timinginwhich it supplies the data,
the quality o f the data, andhow this data can be linkedwith other pertinent information to
facilitate comprehensive analysis to guide dynamic policymaking.




                                                   55

(1)Timing ofData Collectionand Quality ofData

6.       Currently the most systematic and credible data on secondary schools i s collected
(approximately) every five years via a school census. Enumerators are sent to survey all
secondary schools (and other higher learning institutions inthe nation. The spacing between the
census is, however, too long to allow for dynamic policymaking which requires update on data on
a much shorter interval. As modifications inexisting programs are made and new interventions
are piloted, lack o f adequate data on the impact o f these changes constraint the information set o f
policymakers and deny the proper basis to judge impact.

7.       BANBEIS also maintains a database on schools from self-reported data on a shorter cycle
(approximately every year, or every other year). BANBEIS sends out a data form which i s filled
by headmasters (supposed to be cross-checkedbyUnionEducationOfficers) andsent back to
BANBEIS for entry and processing. This type o f self-reported schooling data forms the bed-rock
o f most EducationManagement Information Systems (EMIS) o f this world (inboth developing
anddeveloped countries). Most self-reported EMIS systems inthe developingworld suffer from
the same problems: some schools don't send back forms, information i s not provided for some
variables, incorrect information is provided for some variables (e.g., enrollment, etc.). These
problems are rarely flagged (far less corrected), given that there is no systematic demand to
analyze the data. Even if aggregate tables are prepared at the national or sub-national level, the
data reportingis usually at a macro/meso level   - which  masks micro deficiencies indata.

8.       The next post-primary school census is scheduled for 2008. BANBEIS andthe WB are
currently engaged indiscussion regardingthe structure o fthe planned census and financing
issues. Giventhat the census is too far apart, there is a need for more reliable data on an annual
cycle. The quality o f the self-reported data could be improvedby hostingworkshops with
BANBEIS, headmasters, Union andDistrict Education Officers, andMOEto: a) help train the
headmasters to fill out the forms properly; b) signal to headmasters that these self-reported forms
are taken seriously and data reporting should be consistent. Enumerators could also be set to a
sub-set o f schools every year to do a sample survey. A limited, but essential set of information
could be credible collected inthis manner   - which   could meet most policy needs. BANBEIS
actually does a sample survey once ina while inbetween census rounds, however, so far this has
not been systematic, and it i s not clear how BANBEIS uses this informationto cross-check self-
reporteddata. BANBEIS, MOE, and the World Bankhave discussed these issues and workshops
are beingheld to address these concerns.

(2) Strengtheningthe data hostingand data-consistency-checking capabilities

9.       While BANBEIS has done a great job inhostingvarious data sources and linkingit with
GIS maps, additional technical capacity and funds could help to strengthen its hostindarchiving
capacities. BANBEIS, MOE, andWB are currently discussing ways to finance the provision o f
better training, better hardwarehoftware, and additional staff with key responsibility to properly
host the data. This could be combinedwith specific training indata consistency checking, if
necessary fundingof additional staff with key responsibility over data consistency checks.




                                                 56

(3) LinkingBANBEISandEducationBoardDatabase

10.      While BANBEIS i s responsible for enrollment, student demographic, teacher, and school
infiastructuredata, various EducationBoards are responsible for student-level test score data, and
withinthe secondary school sector context, the crucial Secondary SchoolCompletion (SSC)at
the student-level. Currently BANBEIS only reports the average SSC pass-rate at the school-
level. For student-level test scores we have to rely upon the EducationBoards. The problem in
the past was that the education boards usedtheir own school codes (even schools are spelled
different); andunlike BANBEIS, even their regional codes were not consistent with BBS.
Essentially we had two critical data sets which could not be matched. Ifwe could match the two
data sets, GOBcould do detailed analysis o fhow student, teacher, and school characteristics are
related to student-level test outcomes, to informmore detailed policy discussion at a national-
level. BANBEIS has recently worked with the education Boards and have installed a uniform
coding system for all agencies.




                                                 57

 Annex D: EnhancingCommunityParticipation Strengtheningthe Roles of School
                                                             -
                                      ManagementCommittees

Background

 1.       Bangladeshhas an institutionalizedmechanism for community participation inits
educational system. School managing committees (SMCs) and governing bodies (GBs) are
required in all recognizednon-government secondary schools and intermediate colleges,
respectively. Their roles havebeen institutionalizedthrough the 1977 Board o f Intermediate and
Secondary Education (BISE) regulations governingthe formation o f SMC's. The membership o f
the SMCs consists o f a chairman, a member-secretary and nine other members:

0    A chairman -the district commissioner, anupazilla officer, or anindividualnominatedbythe
     BISE;
0    A member-secretary - the headmasterheadmistress o fthe school; and
     Nine members, including:
          9 two teachers electedbythe teachers from amongthemselves;
          9 four guardiandparents tobeelectedamongtheguardiandparents ofthe students from
              among themselves;
          9 one founder electedbyfounders" from amongthemselves;
          9 one donor elected bydonors'* from amongthemselves; and
          9 onelocalcommunitymember interestedineducationnominatedbythe district
              education office;

2.        The management committee has a term o f three years and serves at the pleasure o f the
BISE and can be dissolved on the recommendation o fMOE on grounds o f inefficiency, financial
irregularity or mismanagement.

          According to the 1977 regulations, key functions o fthe SMC's include:
0    appointing, suspending and dismissing teachers;
0    monitoring school performance andteacher and student attendance;
     raising and managing funds and creating endowments for the school; and
     approving annual budgets including the development budget for the school;

3.        All non-government schools inBangladeshhave functioning school management
committees   .

Issues

4.        The structure ofthe management committee and its functions are geared towards
ensuring that communities are closely involved inthe operations o f the schools and can support
the headmasters inmanaging the school effectively.

5.        However these bodies were not functioning effectively. A key problem was that of 'elite
capture'. Exploiting the loophole inthe selection o f the chairmanship o f SMCs -which allows



l1A founder is an individualwho contributed at least Tk. 15,000 towards the establishment of the school or
who donated landuponwhich the school was built.
12A donor is an individualwho donates at least Tk. 10,000 towards the operationofthe school at any time
after the school has been established.


                                                   58

BISE to nominate the chairperson -politicians and Members o fParliament have frequently
exerted pressure inorder to get chosen for these positions. Members o f Parliament and
politicians routinely chaired 30-40 SMCs (and in some instances over 100 SMCs) and often use
thispositionfor political gaidfavor.

6.       A critical factor underlyingthe `elite capture' is the fact that SMC's have the power to
hire teachers. While criteria for hiringo fteachers are set, they were rarely followed andthe
process was open to abuse and rent-seeking. SMC chairpersons were inthe position to ask for
`donations' from those wishing to teach at the school. These `donations' were often o f the order
o f 1-2lakh Taka (roughly $1500-$3000). Poorer, better-qualified applicants were overlooked in
favor o f candidates who could pay these donations. SMC chairpersons also exerted pressure to
appoint their relatives or individuals inpowerful positions within the community as school
teachers.

7.       The political interference led to an apparent lack of interest o f community members and
guardians to participate in SMCs andthey were generally reluctant to play an active role. This
underminedthe accountability o f the school towards the community.

Reforms Undertaken

8.       One o f the positive aspects o f the Bangladeshi system at the secondary level i s the
freedom students have to attend the educational institutionof their choice. Hence students, and
their parents, do have a voice as they can choose among schools on the basis o f quality.
However, this does not ensure community participation inthe operation o f the school.

9.       A key step that the government is taking inthis regardis the provision o finformation.
Information on standardized examination outcomes, school performance, andon program
effectiveness is disseminated widely down to the upazilla level. This ensures that students,
parentsandcommunities havethe ability to make decisions about how a school isperforming
relative to others on the basis o f objective information.

10.      Recognizingthat it i s imperativeto empower School Management Committees (SMCs)
as they are the key entity at the local level to monitor schools, especially on aspects related to the
attendance o f teachers and students, upkeep o fphysical infrastructure, and performance in
examinations, MOE engaged indialogue with stakeholders - including parents and community
members -to design reforms which will enhance community participation at the school level and
ensure that the problems stated above could be successfully resolved.

11.      As aresult o fthis, the following sets o freforms are beingimplemented:
    First,the Regulations on ManagingCommittees o fthe RegisteredNon-Government
    Secondary Schools havebeen amended to ensure that only the district commissioners,
    upazillanirbahi officers, or retiredgovernment officials nominatedby them, can chair SMCs
    and that any particular individual (other than district commissioners or upazilla nirbahi
    officers) cannot chair any more than four committees. This will ensure that politicians or
    local elite cannot control a vast number o f SMC's. M o E i s engaged in capacity buildingo f
    SMC's to ensure that they perform these critical functions effectively.
    Second, the functions o f SMC's have been modified so that they can play a more active role
    inmonitoringwhat ishappeninginthe school-especially interms o fstudent andteacher
    attendance. Furthermore, giventhe extensive dissemination o fresults on standardized
    examinations, SMCs play an active role indisseminating this information to the community



                                                   59

    and holding regular meetings with the head teachers and teachers on how to ensure that
    school performance improves.
    Finally, the rules governing the hiringo f teachers have been amended. To ensure that
    standardized and transparent criteria are adhered to inthe recruitment o f teachers, an
    autonomous Non-government Teachers' Registration and certification Authority has been
    established. This authority now screens and certifies a pool o f qualified teachers based on
    standardized tests. All schools will have to recruit new teachers from the pool selected by the
    authority (teachers currently inthe system are `grandfathered' but have to become certified-
    see below). While SMCs still retain the authority and flexibility to recruit teachers, these
    teachers will have to be selected fiom the pre-qualified pool. This processreduces rent
    seeking opportunities for the elite, thus reducingtheir incentives for chairingSMCs, which is
    anticipated, intum, to lead to greater involvement o f the community inthe functioning o f
    schools. Changes are already visible. It i s anticipated that these changes will further enhance
    the power o f consumers to monitor and disciplineproviders and strengthenthe role o fparents
    inschool management committees.

12.      Inthe medium-term, a critical reformthat isbeingenvisaged isthe movetowards a
grants-based financing system, where resources will be linkedmore closely to the student. A
draft policy has been prepared inthis regard, which i s beingreviewedby MoE. Under this
system, schools will not directly receive salaries for teachers butwill be giventuition grants that
                                                                                               -
can be used to pay teachers as well as be used for other quality-enhancing purposes. The grants
will be linked to the numbero f students and to school criteria reflectingperformance as well as
physical conditions o f the school, teacher qualifications, and teacher and student attendance. Not
only will this enhance the flexibility that schools have to choose the proper mixbetween salaries
and inputs, but it will give the community (and students and parents) a greater choice inthe
selection andoperation o f good quality schools.




                                                  60



a
P
v)

3
e   8
    .-
    6      .-E'M
d   m      m
           5




                    m
                    W




      -.-
      0
      x

      P
      0
      8
      Y
      e,
      0
      v)
      cr
      0

     0
     Y




E     .-E

a
s

                         Annex G: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis


I. EconomicAnalysis

1.      Improving governance has repeatedly been identified as the biggest development
challenge facing Bangladesh and the greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and
thusachievingthe povertyreductionMDG. Theproposed credit will assist inleveragingreforms
aimed at raisingthe quality o f service delivery, while at the same time, improving equity o f
access. This will be done throughputtinginplace and implement policies that will address
governance and quality issues through reform inkey areas - system management (e.g. reform o f
the MPO system, enforcingregulations regarding registration o fnew schools and colleges),
teacher recruitment and training (e.g. Teacher RecruitmentAuthority, consolidationo ftraining
under an apex organization), textbook reform (e.g. transparent criteria for selection o f textbooks,
clearly demarcating textbook and curriculum functions). Reforms are intended to strengthen the
implementationo f government programs and activities carried out incollaborationwith other
development partners. It i s intended that these reforms will lead to outcomes such as higher
enrollment rates, raised completion rates, decrease intime to complete the secondary cycle, and a
reduction inthe unit cost per student completingthe cycle. By altering the incentives for the
financing and provision o f education, andbuildinggreater accountability inthe system, these
reforms will reduce rent seeking opportunities, enhance cost-effectiveness and quality o fthe
education system.

(a) Rate of ReturnAnalysis

2.      Interms o fquantifiablebenefits, itis clear that therateo freturnto secondary education
inBangladeshis high. The standard rateo freturnanalysis was appliedto the 1995/96Household
Expenditure Survey data to estimate the private returns to schooling inBangladesh. Findings
showed that each additional year o f schooling yields about a 10 %return on the earnings forgone
bythe household (Table 1).




        Source: WorldBank (2000), Bangladesh Education Sector Review, Dhaka

3.      The estimated private rate o freturn i s muchhigher for women (16.5 percent) than men
(9.2 percent). The rate o freturn for individuals inthe rural area was 9.5 percent, whereas the rate
for those inurbanareas was 10percent. The earnings o f a primary school completer i s on
average 52.6 percent higher (annual rate o freturn o f 10.5 percent) than those who have no
schooling andthose who have some primaryschooling but didnot complete it. The additional
annual rate o freturn after completingjunior secondary and secondary education i s 7.4 percent
and 10.8 percent respectively.

4.      The private returnsbased on estimatedMincerianregressions, take into account only the
forgone earnings (indirect costs) as the cost o f education. Estimates o f social rates o freturn take


                                                  66

into account the individual and government cost o f educational investment associated with
moving an individual from one education category to the next.

5.       The social rates o freturn under three different cases are shown inTable 2.13 The
assumptions made inthe first case are that the only benefits considered are the monetarybenefits
measured interms o f increased earnings. It i s assumed that an average student requires 3.8 years
to complete a 3-year cycle o fjunior secondary level and 2.6 years to complete a 2-year secondary
cycle. The estimates suggest that the social rate o fretum for lower secondary education i s 8.3
percent and for secondary it is 8.6 percent.

6.       However, these estimates are obtained by ignoring non-monetary gains and external
benefits. Theoretically, the social rate o f return should include non-monetary benefitsor other
external benefits - benefits not captured by the individual student or ifeducation i s treated as a
family investment, by the individual student and hisher family. Furthermore, improvements in
the governance of the system will lead to quality improvements which will also result inbenefits.
Non-monetary benefits that can be considered while estimating social rates o freturn are (a) gains
due to improvements infamily and health indicatorsand (b) reductions o fwastage interms o f
dropouts and repetitions, thereby increasing the internal efficiency o f the education system.

7.       These are captured by Case B -it is anticipated this case mimics the returns to the more
efficient and highquality system that the government is attemptingto introduce.


                                         Junior Secondary                      Secondary
                                    Male       Female       Total      Male     Female       Total
      Private Rates of Return       7.3          11.8        7.4        10.7      19.1       10.8
      Social Rates (Case A)         8.4          9.3         8.3        8.6       16.2        8.7
      Social Rates (Case B)         10.2         12.3       10.5        10.6      20.9       11.0

8.      Inorder to quantify thesenon-monetary benefitsforjunior secondary andsecondary
education, it i s assumed that improvements in family, health andother social indicators account
for an increase inthe net monetary earnings o f 25 percent (junior secondary) and 20 percent
(secondary) for females and 15 percent (junior secondary) and 10 percent (secondary) for males.
Itis also assumed that an average student requires 3.6 years to complete a 3-year cycle o fjunior
secondary level and 2.4 years to complete a 2-year secondary cycle (this i s discussed inmore
detail below).

9.      The results confirm that social rates o freturn for bothjunior secondary (10.5 percent) and
secondary (11percent) education are hightojustify government investment inthe sub-sector. In
particular, secondary education for females i s the best investment from both the individual and
society's point o fview as shown by the private and social rate o f return o f about 19percent and
21percent respectively.




l3
 These rateshavebeencomputed for lower secondary-grades VI-VIII, and secondary- grades IX-X. They havenot
beencomputedfor highersecondary(gradesXI-XII).


                                                  67

(b) Outcomesunder Reform: Using the SIMSIP Simulatod4

10.      Outcomes associated with improved governance and quality have also been simulated
usingthe SIMSIP education simulator. This simulator simulates educational outcomes and costs
over a period o f 15 years beginning with the implementationo fpolicy changes. It essentially
performs two tasks. First, it computes the number o f children enrolled invarious schooling
cycles over time, together with statistics on the efficiency o f the education system. Second, it
estimates the budget necessary for the education system to operate. The forecasts for the
educational outcomes (number o f students inthe system and efficiency parameters) are obtained
usinga detailed cohort analysis. The cohort analysis tracks the pupils entering the system
through time as they progress from grade to grade. It uses information on repetition, promotion,
anddropout rates per grade or per cycle to compute efficiency statistics (the age of the pupils at
entry ineach cycle i s incorporated inthe analysis). Once the cohort analysis i s completed, the
simulator computes the cost ofreaching education targets.

11.      While the simulator isrelatively sophisticated, its data requirements are relatively few.
Three sets o f assumptions mustbe entered by the user inthe simulator: country demographics, the
structure o f the education system (age at entry inthe various schooling cycles, number o f students
andteachers, coverage and extent o fteacher training, proportiono f system that i s inthe public
sector), and costs (supply-side costs, including teacher wages andteacher-student ratios; demand-
side costs related to the provision of stipends to part ofthe student body; investment costs related
to the training o fnew teachers andthe construction o fnew classrooms; and administrative costs
related to staffingboth at the central level and at lower levels o f government). Simulations are
provided for education outcomes or targets and for the cost o freaching these outcomes.

Alternative Scenarios

12.      The SIMSIF' model is used to simulate the outcomes (and costs) ofpolicy changes
associated with reforms for Bangladesh inthe secondary education systems. While it i s not
possible to use SIMSIP to simulate costs and outcomes associated with all reforms," SIMSIP
allows proxying for changes inmany policy variables that the government i s intending to
implement inthe secondary education sector andestimating related costs and outcomes. This
section presents the outcomes associated with alternative scenarios o freform. The model
differentiates between secondary education (grades 6-10) andhigher secondary education (grades
11-12).

13.      The model has been usedto simulate and proxy for five scenarios:

     Scenario I-This i s the baseline scenario. No policy changes are implemented. The system
operates as at present;

     Scenario II-The government supports more secondary schools (through increased
subventions). These changes are proxied in SIMSIP through increasing subvention costs and
lowering the student teacher ratio;



l4Formore informationon SIMSIP, please see SiMSIP: Simulationsfor SocialIndicators and Poverty by Q. Wodon,
M.I.Ajwad, B.Ryan, andJ. P.Tre ;September 2001.

  For example, usingthis modelit is difficult to simulate outcomeandcost implicationsof textbook andcurriculum
reforms. HoweverNCTB is self-financing,and so reformsare assumedto be cost-neutral.


                                                          68

     Scenario 111- Management related changes are implemented inthe system. This implies that
the system o fregistrationof schools andcolleges is enforced byMOE, the MPO system is
tightened, and over time greater devolution i s introducedinto the system with greater proportion
o f the financing also coming from communities. In SIMSIP, these are proxied for through
changes inextent o f fundinggoing to private schools (e.g. better enforcement o fregulations will
implythat the government fbnds fewer thoughbetter quality schools; similarly greater
community participation infinancing will reduce the government burden); andchanges in
administrative costs (devolution o f authority to lower levels may lead to an increase in
administrative costs);

     Scenario IV- Teacher recruitmentand training related changes are implemented. The
government hires more qualified teachers, invests more inteacher training and inensuring that
teachers are meeting training standards. InSIMSIP, these are proxied for through increases in
proportion o f teachers trained, increases inteacher salaries, and a reduction inpupilteacher ratio.

     Scenario V- This i s a combination scenarios 11-IV, i.e. the government undertakes
infrastructural changes but simultaneously puts inplace and implements policies aimed at
improving the management o fthe secondary and vocational system, and ensuring highstandards
are maintainedinteacher recruitmentand training. Furthermorechanges aimed at improving the
content, timeliness and quality o f textbooks and curriculum are also implemented (these are
assumed to be cost-neutral as NCTB is self-financed).

Reform Implications: SIMSIPSimulations

GrossEnrollments

14.       Currently, gross enrollment rates at the secondary level are close to 50 percent and at the
highersecondary level are about 17percent. Table 3 presents increases inenrollments under
different scenarios.I6 Over a 15 year period, enrollmentratesrise mostrapidly under Scenario V
inbothsecondary andhighersecondary education.

                           Table 3: Percent Increase in Gross Enrollment




Completion Percentage

15.       Table 4 presents increases incompletionrates inthe alternative scenarios. Current
completion rates at the secondary andhigher secondary level are around 40 percent for the SSC
and 35 percent for the HSC respectively. As modeled, there i s no increase incompletion rates in
the baseline scenario. Clearly the maximum increase incompletion rates, both inthe short-run as
well as inthe long-term occurs under scenario V -when all reformmeasures are implemented.


l6While Scenario I maintains status quo - gross enrollments rise over time owing to country demographics.


                                                        69

 Years to Complete

 16.      Table 5 presents the average decrease inyears to complete the two levels o f schooling.
Onaverage, the years to complete the five year secondary education cycle in2001/2 was about
6.5 years, while the average years to complete higher secondary education was close to 3.5 years.
Scenario V shows the steepest decline inyears to complete secondary and higher secondary
education.




17.       Interms o fkeyoutcomes for the secondary andhighersecondary educational system,
scenario V seems to be the most effective alternative. While this is not surprising, as this
scenario simulates the implementation o f a range o fpolicies intended to enhance system
governance and improve the quality o f the system, a critical question that any government faces i s
that o f the cost and the cost-effectiveness o f implementingreforms. This i s discussed inthe
section below.


II.FinancialAnalysis

(a) Financing of Secondary Education

18.       This analysis examines the current and projectedbudget for the secondary education
sector. As it i s difficult to get an accurate breakdown o fbudget data between secondary and
higher secondary education, the analysis inthis section presents budgets for the entire secondary
education sector - grades 6-12. The results under two cases are presentedhere: a base-case
scenario and a highgrowth scenario (Tables 6 and 7).

19.       The base-case utilizes conservative assumptions regarding GDP projections and growth
rates, based on projections from the medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreed
with the IMFandthe World Bank. GDPgrowthrate is assumed to be constant at 4.0 percent
from 2003-09. This implies that Government maintains sound macroeconomic management and


                                                   70

   proceedswith implementingthe reform agenda. Total government budget as apercentage o f
   absolute GDP i s taken from IMF estimatesand i s projectedto increase at anominal rate from
    14.5 percent in2001-02 to 15.5 percent in2007-09. The proportion of education sector budget to
   Government of Bangladesh i s projectedto remain constant at the 2001-02 level of 15.3 percent
   over the period2003-09. And the proportion of education budget going to the secondary sector i s
   maintained at 2001-02 level o f 43.1 percent. Finally, we assume that recurrent and
   developmental spending, as aproportion of secondary education budget, remain constant at 75
   percent and 25 percent respectively.




                                                                                                   4.0

                                                                                                  61.75

                                                                                                   15.5

                                                                                                   9.57
Proportion of Government Budget
to education (%)                      15        15.3     15.3    15.3    15.3      15.3    15.3    15.3
Total Government budget for
education (US$ billions)             1.02       1.17     1.23    1.26    1.31      1.35     1.41   1.47
Proportionof education budget to
secondary education ("?)             43.1       43.1     43.1    43.1    43.1     43.1     43.1    43.I
Total secondary education
budget (US%billions)
...of                                0.440      0.506   0.529   0.543    0.565    0.584   0.607    .631
       which recurrent (US$
billions)
...of                                0.326      0.375   0.392   0.403    0.419   0.433    0.450    .467
       which development (US$
billions)                            0.114      0.131   0.137   0.140    0.146   0.151    0.157    .164

   20.      The results of the base-case show that total government budget could increaseby about
   41 percent over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billionin2001-02 to $9.57 billion in2008-09.
   Education and universal primary education more specifically i s a priority for the GOB. As a
   result o fthe increase inoverall government budget, the allocation for education i s projectedto
   increaseby approximately 45 percent over the period 2003-08, from $1.02 billion in2001-02 to
   $1.47 billion in2007-08. This i s still fairly small -around 2.3% o f GDP. Out o fthe total
   allocationto education, the share of the secondary budgetcould increaseinreal terms over the
   period 2003-08, from $0.440 billionto $0.631 billion in2008-09.

   21.      Inthe caseofhigh-growth, GDPprojections andgrowthratesbasedonhigheconomic
   growth scenario from IMF projections. GDP growth rate is assumedto increase from 3.8 percent
   in2001-02 to 6.5 percent in2008-09. Total government budgetas apercentageofabsoluteGDP
   i s taken from IMF estimates and i s projected to increasefrom 14.5 percent in2001-02 to 16.3
   percent in2008-09. The proportion o f education sector budget to Government of Bangladesh i s
   projected to increasenominally from 15 percent in2001-02 to 16percent in2008-09. And, the
   proportion of education budget going to secondary education i s projected to increase from 43.1
   percent in2001-02 to 47.0 percent by 2007-08 (a halfpercentagepoint increase annually). We
   continue to assume that recurrent and developmental expenditures, as a proportion o f secondary
   education budget, remainconstant at 75 percent and 25 percent respectively.




                                                     71

     22.      The results (Table 7) show that total government budget as apercentageo f GDP could
     increaseby about 70 percent over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billion in2001-02 to $11.58
     billion in2007-08. As aresult of increasethe increase inoverall government budget, the
     allocation for education is projected to increaseby over 80 percent over the period 2003-09, from
     $1.02 billion in2001-02 to $1.85 billion in2008-09. Inthis case, the share of educational
     expendituresto GDP will rise to about 2.6 percent by 2008/09 whichi s stillrelatively low by
     internationalstandards. Out of the total allocation to education, the share of secondary education,
     inabsoluteterms couldincreasebyabout 90 percent over theperiod2003-09, from $0.440 billion
     in2001-02 to $0.870 billionin2008-09. The recurrent expenditure will increasecorrespondingly
     from $0.326 millionto $0.635 million andthe development expenditures from $0.1 14millionto
     $0.235 million.




...of whichrecurrent(US$
billions)                           0.326      0.354     0.407    0.456  0.510    0.556    0.595     .635
...of whichdevelopment(US$
billions)                           0.114      0.124     0.142    0.159  0.178    0.194    0.208     .235



     (b) Sustainability of SecondaryEducation Expenditures

     23.      Implementingreforms entails costs. Based on the cost analysis usingthe SIMSIP
     simulator, this section attempts to simulate andassess the costs associatedwith implementing
     reforms aimed at enhancing the quality and governance o f the system, and assesswhether these
     costs are sustainable.

     24.      Inall five scenarios simulatedthroughthe SIMSIP simulator, the government wouldhave
     to increase its expenditure on education (Table 8). Evento maintainstatus quo -with no
     improvements incompletionrates or inaverageyears to complete the level, the government
     would have to spendabout $32 million ayear more than presently by 2008 and $132 million
     moreper year by 2018. When the government begins to implement reforms-especially under
     scenarios 111-V, the cost rises substantially. For example, implementingbetter practices in
     teaching and recruitment of teachers(Scenario IV) would cost an addition $86 milliodannumin
     real terms by 2008 (and $344 million per annum by2018). Interesting, refoms improving



                                                      72

system management (Scenario III) cheaper -while they yield fairly similar outcomes to
                                       are
Scenario IV. The mainreasonbehind this i s probably that improved system management
involves factors such as buildingmore capacity at the upazilla and district level which could
result inhigher costs, while at the same time better enforcement o f MPO regulations will ensure
that the government funds fewer schools thus reducing costs. Scenario V, inwhich all reforms
are implementedwould need increasedinvestments to the tune o f approximately $96 milliodyear
by 2008 and $384million ayear moreby 2018. Hence, under this scenario the government
would almost double its current investments in secondary and higher secondary education inreal
terms by 2018.

25.       I s this increasedinvestment inreforms cost-effective? Current unit costs per completer
are roughly $80 and $181insecondary andhigher secondary education respectively. Table 9
examines this issue by looking at the unit costkompleter.

                     Table 8: Increase in Real Annual Public Costs




26.       The answer to the question i s yes reforms have a significantly positive impact on
                                             -
reduction inunit costs per completer (by about 20 percent at the secondary level and 70 percent at
the higher secondary level by 2018). It i s important to recognize that most savings are realized
when all reforms are implementedsimultaneously(scenario V).




27.       Ifthe government aimstoundertakereformsasdescribedinScenarioV, Chart 1shows
the distribution o f costs betweenrecurrent costs, demand-side costs, andinvestmentcosts.
Recurring costs (dotted line inchart below) are the sum o fthe expenditures on teacher wage bill
and the administrative costs associated with runningschools. The wage bill for the teaching staff
i s the largest fraction o frecurrent costs. Demand-side costs (solid line in chart) are costs
associated with providing stipends. Supply-side investment costs (solid line inchart) are
composed o f three main components - the cost o fpaying teacher subventions, the cost of training
new teachers and the cost o ftraining existing teachers. Inthe Bangladeshi context (as is true
worldwide), recurrent costs will be the major portion o f total costs. Inthis scenario, investment
costs are expectedto start risingslowly inthe short-run, but will increase fairly sharply over time
as greater investments inteacher training and subventions kick in-by 2018 investment costs will



                                                 73

be close to 20 percent of total costs. Finally, demand-side costs are expected to remain fairly

                                      Chart 1: Cost Brrakdown for Sornarlo V


                                                                                                         E50

     1BO                                                                                                 BOO

     160                                                                                                 750




 --.-
  -  140                                                                                                 700

     120                                                                                                 650

  5 100
  Ln
  3
     Bo

     60                                                                                                  500

     40                                                                                                  450

     20                                                                                                  400

      0                                                                                                  350
                  2003                                                                            201


                                    -Demand      -In".    ---P--- Rae. - - - r - - - T ~ t s l


constant over time.




                                                   74

                     Annex H:GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality

 Principle 1:ReinforceOwnership
The proposedESDSC I11operation supports the education sector reforms which emerged as a deeper andbroader
program initially based on the MTBFthat GOBhas been implementing since 2002. The reformprogram,
prepared after extensive consultations across the country, also conforms to the PRSP goals o f enhancing human
development and governance, particularly inthe education sector. Ownership and active participation o f all
stakeholders responsible for deliveryo f secondary education services and recipients o f these services have
rendered this reformpackage the unique status o f unequivocal support from all spectrums o f Bangladesh society.
The design and implementation o f the reformprogram have been championedby successive governments, more
soby the new Care Taker Government. The government's track record inownership andcommitment is
demonstrated inwell-thought-out sequencing and execution of reform actions over the years which enjoyed
widespread popular support.

Principle2: Agree upfront with thegovernmentand otherfinancialpartners on a coordinatedaccountability
framework
The Bank's support to the key reforms insecondary education is summarized inthe policy matrix attached as
Annex B to this program document. It constitutes a focused subset o f critical actions from the government's
larger reformprogram. These were agreeduponwith the Government from the very beginning o fthe ESDSC
series o f support. The program is consistent with the medium-term matrix o f reforms laid out inthe FY06-09
CAS that was jointly prepared with the major development partners inBangladesh. Besides, coordination with
other development partners at the education local consultative group forum is a regular feature. The Asian
Development Bank is also providing support including technical assistance and investment project support
complementing these policy reforms.

Principle3: Customizethe accountabilityframework and modalitiesof Bank supportto country circumstances
The ESDSC series is designed as a programmatic series with three annual tranches based on an agreed
performance accountability framework (Annex B) derived from the broader educationreformagenda o f the
Government. Early consensus on the reforms gave the Government predictability inaid flows to support the
program. Sensitive policy reforms -such as rigorous enforcement o f amended MPO criteria tiedto performance,
gradual shifting toward grants based financing, fiduciary and governance reforms    -- areall customized to meet the
specific needs o f the country situation. Establishment and operationalization o fNon-government Teacher
Registration and Certification Authority, restructuring o f NationalCurriculum and Textbook Board and
competitive production o f textbooks are all very challenging reforms but they have beensuccessfully
implementedwith popular support. Indeed,there is a broad consensus acrossBangladesh onthese as core
elements o f a successful education reformprogram.

Principle4: Chooseonly actionscriticalfor achieving resultsas conditionsfor disbursement
The Bank agreed with the Government on 10prior actions from the larger policy matrix as the benchmarks for
ESDSC III.They cover three core areas o f education reforms: (i)   systemic improvement, (ii)   enhancement o f
teacher quality and (iii)curriculum and textbooks. Prior actions focus on critical steps in, among other things,
implementation, evaluation o f measuresundertaken, testing innovations, and enhancing capacity at different
levels.

 Principle5: Conducttransparentprogress reviews conducivetopredictable andperformance-basedfinancial
support
The Bank agreed with the Government on the indicative triggers for ESDSC I11and the cycle o f performance
reviews for the program during implementation o f reforms under ESDSC 11. The Bank and the Ministryo f
Education, with support from its relevant agenciesjointly monitored the progress over the year. The process was
buttressed by a number of independentevaluations o f various reformmeasures. The Ministry of Education took
the coordinating role to collate progress updates from various agencies and share themwith all concerned
agencies.




                                                     75

                                          Annex I:Statement ofLoansandCredits

                                                       BANGLADESH
                                                                                                              Difference between
                                                                                                             expectedand actual
                                                          OriginalAmount in US$Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                 IBRD      IDA       SF       GEF   Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.     Frm.Rev'd
PI00330    2007 BDRailway ReformProgrammatic             0.00     40.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    40.29     0.00        0.00
                DevPolicy
PO98273    2006 Local GovernanceSupport Project          0.00    111.50      0.00     0.00   0.00   112.33    -0.08        0.00
PO89382    2006 InvestmentPromotionFinancing Facility    0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    47.35    -1.25        0.00
PO74841    2005 HNP SectorProgram                        0.00   300.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  361.48    -56.05        0.00
PO86661    2004 iBD Water SupplyProgramProject
                    -                                    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    39.57     0.77        0.00
PO83890    2004 EconomicManagementTA Program             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    19.64     8.74        0.00
                (EMTAP)
PO86791    2004 ReachingOut of SchoolChildren Project    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    43.19     3.65        0.00
PO81969    2004 EnterpriseGrowth& Bank Modernization     0.00   250.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   140.99   50.42         0.00
PO74966    2004 Primary EducationDevelopmentProgram      0.00    150.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    99.36     2.92        0.00
                I1
PO78707    2004 Power Sector DevelopmentTA               0.00      7.10     0.00      0.00   0.00    13.86     9.77        1.93
PO53578    2003 Social InvestmentProgramProject          0.00     18.24     0.00      0.00   0.00     5.63     3.60        0.00
PO71435    2003 Rural TransportImprovementProject        0.00   190.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   126.17   54.76         0.00
PO62916    2003 CentralBank StrengtheningProject         0.00     37.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    36.37   32.50         0.00
PO81849    2003 BD:TelecommunicationsTechnical           0.00      9.12     0.00      0.00   0.00     7.82     5.10        1.89
                Assist.
PO74731    2002 Financial Servicesfor the Poorat         0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     1.78     1.07        0.00
PO75016    2002 Public ProcurementReformProject          0.00      4.50     0.00      0.00   0.00     0.34    -0.35       -0.48
PO71794    2002 Rural Elect.RenewableEnergyDev.          0.00   190.98      0.00      0.00   0.00    91.16   46.91         0.00
PO44876    2002 FemaleSecondary SchoolAssis. I1          0.00   120.90      0.00      0.00  31.06    25.1 1  38.32        -5.35
PO74040    2002 RenewableEnergyDevelopment               0.00      0.00     0.00      8.20   0.00     1.97     6.21        0.00
PO69933    2001 HN/AIDS Prevention                       0.00     40.00     0.00      0.00  21.98     2.09   19.67        -0.33
PO57833    2001 Air Quality ManagementProject            0.00      4.71     0.00      0.00   0.00     2.65    2.15        -0.54
PO50752    2001 Post-Literacy& Continuing Education      0.00     53.30     0.00      0.00  0.00     29.37   21.26        -1.74
PO44810    2001 Legal& Judicial CapacityBuilding         0.00     30.60     0.00      0.00  0.04     15.03   10.57        0.00
PO41887    1999 Municipal Services                       0.00   138.60      0.00      0.00  0.68     36.88   34.08       22.36
                                                 Total:  0.00   1,751.55    0.00      8.20  53.76  1,300.43 294.74        17.74




                                                               76

                                               Statementof IFC's
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            InMillions of US Dollars


                                                    Committed                           Disbursed
                                                   IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                    Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic. Loan      Equity     Quasi  Partic
2001        BRAC Bank                  0.00         1.63     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.60       0.00   0.00
1997        DBH                        1.91         0.65     0.00    0.00      1.91    0.65       0.00   0.00
1991        Dynamic Textile            0.00         0.00     0.00     1.48     0.00    0.00       0.00   1.48
            GTFP DhakaBank             5.00         0.00     0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
            GTFP EasternBnk            2.59         0.00     0.00    0.00      2.59    0.00       0.00   0.00
2004        GrameenPhone Ltd           24.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     24.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
2006        GrameenPhone Ltd           59.00        0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
1998        IPDC                       3.13         0.00     0.00    0.00      3.13    0.00       0.00   0.00
1998        Khulna                     10.40        0.00     0.00    11.99    10.40    0.00       0.00  11.99
1998        LafargdSurma               35.00       10.00     0.00    0.00     35.00   10.00       0.00   0.00
2000        LafargdSunna               0.00         0.00     0.00    15.00     0.00    0.00       0.00  15.00
2003        RAKCeramics                7.20         0.00     0.00    0.00      7.20    0.00       0.00   0.00
2000        UnitedLeasing              2.57         0.00     0.00    0.00      2.57    0.00       0.00   0.00
                      Total portfolio:  150.80     12.28     0.00   28.47     91.80   12.25      0.00   28.47




                                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
             FY Approval   Company                         Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.
             2000          USPCL                         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
             1998          Khulna                        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00

                                 Totalpendingcommitment:    0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00




                                                        77

                                          Annex J: BangladeshAt a Glance


POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    South   LOW-
                                                        Bangladesh     Asia income        Development diamond'
2006
Population,mid-year /*?/                                       144.4   1,+70   2,353
GNIper capita (Affssmkd lK$J                                    480     604      560                     Lifeevpectancy
GNI (rlflarmfhti LL!V;sCwknrl                                   69.9   1,005   1,364                           T
Average annual growth. 2000-06
Population (27                                                    1.9    1.7      1.9
Labor force i?$                                                  2.2     2.1     2.3      GNI                                Gross
                                                                                                                             primary
Most recent estimate [latest gear available. 2000-06)                                     PQr
                                                                                          capita                           nrollment
Poverty ,&!::'&pt-pdahra~h.djmw(v~t                               50
Urbanpopulation,Wt-#ft-w.dmw/                                     25     29       31
Lifeevpectancyat birth [u~a-~'                                    63     63       58
Infantmortality /&rl~&~MtAc!                                      56     66      00
Childmalnutritionfi't-#&iw~.&~f/                                  48     45      39            Access to improvedwater snurce
Access to animprovedwater source fi;'&pt-pda&J                    74     04      75
Literacy fi:'d@?k&                                                 41    60      62
Grossprimaryenroilment fi:'d3&kdq~pt-pda&t                       109     110     104             -      A@&s4
  Male                                                           107     116     110
  Female                                                          111    105     89              ~        L  r n  m  - W

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1986            1996   2005    2006        Economic ratios'
GDP ( t i S Y m T !                              21.2          40.7     60.0   62.0
GrosscapitalfnrrnationlGDP                       16.7          20.0     24.5   25.0
Ewportsof goods and seruiceslGDP                  5.4            11.1   16.6    17.8                         Trade
Gross domesticsauingsfGDP                         8.0           12.4    20.0   20.3
GrnssnationalsauingslGOP                         16.9          20.0     25.8   26.6
CurrentaccountbalancefGDP                        -5.1           -3.2    -0.9     0.9
InterestpayrnentslGOP                             0.7            0.5     0.4              Domestic                      Capital

Total debtfGDP                                                                            sauings                       formation
Total debt seruicefewports
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                                 22.0
Presentvalueof dobtfsnpnrts                                             86.5
                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                 1986-96 1996-06              2005    2006 2006-10
( M F M - W M )
GDP                                    4.2        5.4            6.0     6.7     6.3
GDPper capita                           1.8       3.4            *.O     4.8     4.5
Evportsof goodsandservices             11.7       9.6           15.6    15.7    12.5

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               1986           1996    2005    2006                      ~~




r::'Ormq,                                                                               Growth of capital and GDP [%)

Agriculture                                      31.8          25.7     20.1    18.5
Industry                                         21.5          24.9     27.2    20.1
 Manufacturing                                   14.0           15.4    16.5    17.2
Scruicrs                                         46.5          49.5     52.6   52.4      - .      .       .     .    .    .     .
Householdfinalconsumptionevpenditure            a5 0           03.2     76.4    76.1              01      02   E l   04   OS    06
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure         4 3             4.4     5.5     5.6
Importsof goods andserwices                      12.2           10.7   23.0    24.4                 -GCF            -GOP


                                           1986-96          1996-06   2005
l ~ q i = ~ d ~ m W l y                                                                 Growth of erports and imports [ X )
Agriculture                                      2.3            3.6     2.2                                                         I
Industry                                         6.5            7.0     0.3      8.6    20
 Mrnulacturing                                   6.7            6.3     6.2    10.4     i o
Services                                         3.8            5.5     6.4      6.5
HDuseholdfinalconsumptionewpenditure             3.2            3.6      5.1     6.0   -10
Generalgov't finalconsumptionewpenditure         4.0            0.3     7.0      7.9   -20
Grosscapitalformation                            6.7            B.6     10.7
Impmtsof gDods and services                      7.5            5.8     19.1

Note2006 dataare preliminaryestimates.Group data are for 2005.
'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry[inbold]comparedwithitsincome-groupruerage.Ifdataaremissing.thediamondwill
 beincomplete.




                                                                    78

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1986     1996     2005    2006
Beme5tkpkes
fi:k&-?-&wi
Consumer prices                                        6.7     6.5       7.0
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.0      4.2      5.1     5.2
mPJ-at&mrasce
fi:'#'~33?  .&#+&-c  wrm-wm%l
Currentrevenue                                9.5      9.0    10.5      10.7
Current budgetbalance                          4.1     2.2      2.1     2.2
Overallsurplusfdeficit                        -3.1    -4.5    -3.8      -3.3

TRADE
                                           1986    1996     2005    2006      1Export and import levels [US$ mill.]

TotaleHports[fob]                             819   3.884   8,573    10,422
  Raw jute                                    124       91      96       117
  Leatherandleatherproducts                    61     241      221      269
  Manufactures                               486    3.2105   7,819    9,506
Totalimports[cif)                          2.364    6.947   ii.870   13.301
  Food                                       356      570    1,607    1,801
  Fuelandenergy                              342      274    1.602    1,795
  Capitalgoods                              1,003    1,918   1,794    2,010
Ewportpriceinden /."fa7n.-.$Wl                 46      85      119      122
Importpriceinder ~VW=.$W]                      48      79      134       141
Terms of trade piT?=AWi                        96     ioa       89       87

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1986    1996     2005     2006
prndkmy                                                                      I Current amount balance to GDP [%I
Ekiportsof goodsandservices                 1,043   4.437   9,750     11,711
Importsof goodsandservices                 2,587    7,604   13.917   15,707  I 7
Resourcebalance                            -1,544  -3,167   -4,167   -3.989
Net income                                  -126       55    -680     -786
Net current transfers                        586     1.821  4.230     5.347
Currentaccountbalance                      -1.084   -1,291   -557       572
Financingitems(net)                         1.212     274     624     -207
Changesinnetreserves                        -128     1.017     -E?    -365
Mm--
Reservesincludinggold                               1,878   2,929     3,188
Conwersionrate f22FC                        29.9     40.9     61.8     67.2


EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1986     1996    2004     2005
pm                                                                             Compositionof 2005 debt (US$ mill.]
Totaldebt outstandinganddisbursed          8,062   15.341   20,129  18,935
  IEIRD                                        61      46       0
  IDA                                      2,450    5,713   8.895    a.6aa0
Totaldebt service                                                       791
  IBRD                                                  8       8         0
  IDA                            r 5         448     672       671

                                              28       92     2118     223
Cornpositionof netresourceflows
  Officialgrants                            553      596      822       671
  Officialcreditors                         843      548      557      339
  Privatecreditors                            55      -39      -16       -9
  Foreigndirect investment[net inflows)        2       14     449      a02
  PortFolioequity[netinflows]                  0      -117      4          1                         c:368
WorldBank program
  Commitments                               383       168     707      5ua     A IBRU
                                                                                -                           E Bilstcrd
  Disbursements                             337      279       615     547     B-IDA   D Other multilateral
                                                                                        .                   F Priratc
  Principalrepayments                          a       54      148      153    C. IMF                       G Short-tcrm
                                                                                                             ---
  Net flows                                 330      225      467      394
  Inter& payments                             25       45      68        70
  Net transFers                             305       180     399      325


RsvelopmentEconomics                                                                                             5f15f07




                                                          79

       Annex K: Bangladesh IMFStaff Assessment for the World Bank,
                                  -
                                        May 7,2007




1.      Macroeconomic performancehas been broadlyin line with the objectives of the
PRGF-supportedprogram. Over the last several years, economic activity has remained
strong and macroeconomic stability sustained, while poverty has been significantly reduced.
The external sector has been particularly robustwith stronggrowth in exports and
remittancesallowing for a considerable increasein international reserves. Recently, inflation
has increasedand will likely require policy adjustments.With respect to fiscal policy, while
overall discipline has beenmaintained, revenuecollection has consistently fallen short of
targets underthe PRGF-supportedprogram.This, together with under-executionof
development spending, continuesto hamper the implementationofthe budget. Structural
reforms have progressedin several key areas, albeit often with significant delays.

RecentEconomicDevelopments

2.      Growth remainsstrong spurred by export demand and risingprivate domestic
investment, but inflation has recentlyincreased. GDP growth is expectedto continue at
around 6.7 percent inFY07, despitesome supply-relateddisruptions, with lower agricultural
growth morethan offset by strongmanufacturing and serviceactivities. Average inflation
picked up to 6.9 percent inMarchreflecting increases in both food and nonfoodprices.
Followingfuel price hikes, average inflation is projectedto reach 7.2 percent inFY07 before
moderatingduring the course ofFY08.

3.      The exchange rate has been relatively stable and international reserveshave
increasedthroughoutthe periodof political upheaval. Reserveshavereachedbeyond
$4 billion (approachingthree monthsof imports) on the back of continued strongremittances
andexports, which are growing at 25 and21percent, respectively.As credit to government
soared inthe first halfofthe fiscal year, broadmoney growth reacheda record high of
22 percent inDecemberand severalend-Decemberperformancecriteria were missed. While
BangladeshBank (BB) hasmovedto bring its net domestic assets in line with the PRGF-
supportedprogram, broadmoney andprivate credit are still growing at 20 and 17percent,
respectively.

4.      The execution of the FY07 budget has beenproblematic.Spendingaccelerated
early inthe fiscal year sendingdomestic financing offtrack. Revenueshortfalls and delays in
externaldisbursementsfirther aggravatedthe situationrequiring expenditure cuts later inthe
year to bring the overall deficit back in line with the budget framework. Revenue, as a
percentofGDP, is expected to decline by 0.2 percentagepoints inFY07, rather than improve
by 0.4 percentage points as targetedunder the PRGF-supportedprogram.




                                        8C

Outlook and Risks

5.       Growth is expected to remain around 6%-7 percentover the medium term.
Buoyant garment exports and remittance flows, as well as the possibility o fhigher aid and
private flows, should helpsustain investment. Inflationcould be contained at around
6% percent inFY08with some adjustment in policies and aided by an expected leveling off
o f international food and commodity prices. This scenario, however, depends crucially on the
government's ability to improve governance-especially inthe power sector, make progress
on substantial infrastructure deficiencies inthe ports and transportation system, improve
labor skills, and address other constraints faced by investors. The current account may slip
into deficit ifinvestment and import growth strengthen, but international reserves would
increase with higheraid flows and foreign investment. To meet the large social and
infrastructure spendingneeds, revenue performance will needto be substantially improved.
Political stability, including progress toward credible elections with continued broad support
for the transitional government, will be an important factor insustaining investor and donor
confidence.

MacroeconomicPolicies

6.       Addressingthe perennial revenuechallenge in a sustainableway will likely
require an overhaulof existinglegislationto simplify the system and broadenthe tax
base. Numerousamendments to legislation over the years have created tax laws that are
complicated and hard to administer. Systemic reform is necessaryto achieve the full benefits
ofongoing tax administration reforms andto support further trade liberalization.

7.       The FY08 budget aims at realistic revenueand spendingtargets. The authorities
are planning for an increase inrevenue to 10.6 percent o fGDP based on specific measures
and better governance, while expenditure priorities will focus on higher social safety net
spending and a more realistic 0.6 percent o f GDP increase inthe annual development
program. The overall budget deficit is targeted to increase to 5.2 percent o f GDP once the
government assumes the stock o f nonperforming loans o fthe state-owned petroleum
company (BPC) with domestic banks accumulated over several years amounting to
1.6 percent o f GDP. The underlyingdeficit (i.e., the overall deficit excluding the impact o f
assuming SOE debt) would remain around 3% percent o f GDP. Price increases for fuel,
electricity, and fertilizer already implemented have substantially reduced SOE losses, but
further adjustments will beneeded (see 710).

8.       A further tightening of monetary policy is likely to be needed in the face of
strong foreign inflowsand risinginflation. Inrecent months, ample liquidity (arising from
strong exports and remittances) has emerged as the main challenge for monetary policy.
Although monetary and credit aggregates have retreated from their peaks inDecember, they
are still growing well above the authorities' targets. The recentjump ininflation, coupled




                                               81

with the April hikeinfuel prices, reinforcesthe need for some monetary tightening,
including to firmly anchor inflationary expectations.

9.      To support the objectives of monetary policy,there is scope to moderatethe pace
of reserve accumulation. A modest real appreciationo fthe exchange rate is currently taking
place through higher inflation. Giventhe continued strong export performance and growth in
remittances, BB is close to reaching a comfortable reserve position and could moderate its
reserve accumulationto allow for more movement inthe nominal exchange rate.

StructuralReforms

10.     Petroleumpricingpolicyhascontributedto largequasi-fiscallosses of the state-
owned enterprises, particularly inthe petroleum,power,and fertilizer companies. The
petroleumprice adjustments o fApril 2 (16-2 1 percent) have brought retail prices closer to
full cost-recovery levels (about 88 percent), but inthe absenceo f fbrther price adjustment
(and at current international prices) losseswould continue at about !4 percent o f GDP
annually. To avoid the re-accumulation o f losses inBPC, it is imperative to introduce an
automatic mechanism o fprice adjustment and improve operational efficiency. Further
adjustments inelectricity tariffs and fertilizer prices, and financial restructuring o fthe state-
owned electricity companies, will be needed. Adjustment o f natural gas prices, which i s also
overdue, would reduce distortions and contribute to government revenue.

11.     BangladeshBank hasadvanced reformsaimed at deepeningfinancialmarkets,
but further efforts are neededto preservebanksoundnessand enhance financial
intermediation.The regulatory framework has been strengthened, off-site and on-site
supervisionhas been enhanced, and steps are being taken to restructure, corporatize, and
privatize the large NCBs.However, the observed improvements inpublished aggregate
indicators o f bank soundness conceal wide divergences in individualbanks' performance and
mask the underlying weaknesses inthe banking systembecauseo funderestimation o fthe
capital shortfall and loan classification rules that are less stringent than international
standards. Accordingly, the proposedamendment to the BankingCompanies Act is a
welcome step to further strengthen loan classification guidelines and gradually raise banks'
minimumcapital requirements. Corporatizationo fthe NCBs will needto be accompanied by
appointment of qualified directors that can guide and implement restructuringprograms at
these banks.

Status of IMFRelations

12.     Bangladesh's three-year PRGFarrangementwas approvedin June 2003, with
an initial commitment of SDR 347 million(65 percentofquota). This was later
augmented by SDR 53 million (10 percent o f quota) inaccordance with the IMF's Trade
IntegrationMechanism (TIM). A total o f SDR 317million has been drawn as o f
March 31,2007. Several performance criteria were missedfor the final review on account o f




                                                82

accelerated spendingby the outgoing government and weak revenue collection and revenue
administration reform efforts. Notwithstanding some recent improvementsthat are moving
things inthe right direction, not all programtargets havebeen brought back inline as ofend-
March 2007, which will likely preclude completion ofthe review. The PRGF arrangement
will expireon June 19, 2007.

13.     The most recentArticle IV consultationwas discussed by the ExecutiveBoard of
the IMFinJune 2005. The next Article IV consultation is scheduledto bediscussedbythe
Board in June 2007. The transitional government has emphasizedits commitment to advance
reforms during its tenure and i s keen for early negotiation of a follow-on PRGF. Staffwill
decide on next steps after taking into accountthe views expressedat the IMFBoard
discussion.




                                               83

                     Table 1. Bangladesh:Key Economic Indicators, FY03-09 11


                                                                                                      Projection
                                                               FY03     FY04      FY05     FY06  FY07   FY08    FYO9


Nationalincomeand prices (percentchange)
 Real GDP                                                         5.3      6.3       6.0     6.7   6.7     6.7    7.0
 GDP deflator                                                     4.5      4.2       5.1     5.2   6.3     6.7    5.0
 CPI inflation (annualaverage)2/                                  4.4      5.8       6.5     7.2   7.2     6.5    5.0

Central government operations(percentof GDP)
 Total revenue                                                  10.3      10.2     10.5     10.7  10.4    10.7   11.1
    Tax                                                           8.3      8.2       8.5     8.5   8.3     8.5    9.0
    Nontax                                                        2.0       1.9      2.0     2.1   2.1     2.1    2.1

 Total expenditure                                              13.7       13.3    13.8     13.9  13.9    15.8   14.3
    Current expenditure                                           8.1      7.8       8.4     8.4   9.0     8.7    8.7
      Of which: Interestpayments                                  1.9       1.6      1.7     1.a   1.9     2.0    2.0
      Of which: Subsidies                                         2.3      2.4       2.8     2.6   3.0     2.8    2.8
    Annual DevelopmentProgram                                     5.4      5.0       5.0     4.7   4.2     4.8    4.8
    Other expenditures 3/                                         0.1       0.5      0.4     0.8   0.7     2.3    0.8

 Overall balance (excludinggrants) 4/                            -3.4      -3.1     -3.3    -3.2  -3.5    -5.2   -3.3
 Primary balance4/                                               -1.5      -1.4     -1.7    -1.4  -1.5    -3.2   -1.3
 Financing(net)                                                   3.4       3.1      3.3     3.2   3.5     5.2    3.3
    Domestic 4151                                                  1.2      I.a      1.7     2.1   1.9     3.7    1.7
    External                                                      2.1       1.3      1.6     1.2   1.1     1.5    1.6

Total central governmentdebt (percentof GDP)                     51.1      48.7    47.5     46.9 44.4     44.0   42.4

Moneyand credit (end of fiscal year; percentchange)
 Net domestic assets                                             12.2      13.5    17.1     19.6  13.4    14.2   16.0
 Credit to privatesector                                         12.6      17.5    17.0     18.3  15.1    14.5   14.2
 Broad money (M2)                                                15.6      13.8    16.7     19.3  17.5    15.0   17.7

Balanceof payments(in billions of US. dollars) 6/
 Exports,f.0.b.                                                    6.5      7.0      8.6    10.4  12.5    15.0   17.1
    (Annual percent change)                                        9.5      7.2    23.2     21.6  19.9    19.9   14.1
  Imports, f.0.b.                                                 -8.7     -9.8    -11.9   -13.3 -16.0   -19.3  -21.8
    (Annual percent change)                                      13.1      13.0    20.6     12.1  20.0    21.2   12.7
   Current account                                                 0.1     -0.5     -0.9     0.6   0.5     0.2   -0.1
    (Percent of GDP)                                               0.1     -0.9     -1.5     0.9   0.8     0.3   -0.2

Gross official reserves(in billions of U.S. dollars)               2.5      2.7      2.9     3.5   5.0     5.7    6.9
In months of imports of goods and nonfactorservices                2.9      2.8      2.5     2.7   3.2     3.0    3.2

Memorandum item:
  Nominal GDP (in billions of taka)                             3,006    3,330    3,707    4,162 4,720  5,374   6,037


  Sources: Data provided by the Bangladesh authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.

  1/ Fiscal year begins July 1.
  2/ CPI uses FY96 weights.
  3/ Consists of other capital, net lending,food account balances, check float and discrepancy.
  4/ Includes assumptionof BPC liabilitiesof 1.6 percent of GDP in FY08
  51Includes estimated privatizationreceiptsof 0.5 percent of GDP in FY07.
  6/ Balance of payments is presented on the basis of BPM5.




                                                              84

                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33368
                To Gangtok
   88E                                          89E                    BHUTAN                   90E                                 91E                   BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Dispur
                                 Panchagar                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
Patna                  PANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                 BANGLADESH
                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
 26N         Thakurgaon                NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
          THAKURGAON                        Nilphamari                   Lalmonirhat
                                                                       T                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                               Kurigram
                                                       Rangpur                                                                                                               DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                       KURIGRAM
 Katihar                            Dinajpur             RANGPUR                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                        DINAJPUR                                                       To
                                                                                                    Goalpara                        I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                             Gaibandha                                                                                    To      92E                 To
                                                                                                                                                                  Dispur
                                                                      GAIBANDHA                                                                                                                Dispur

                                                 JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                    SERPUR
                                                    Joypurhat                                                                               Sunamganj
 25N                                                                                                                                                                   SYLHET
                                NAOGAON                                                              Serpur                                                                                                  25N
                                                                                                                         NETROKONA               SUNAMGANJ        Sylhet
                               Naogaon                                 BOGRA              Jamalpur
                                                                        Bogra
                                 R A J S H A H I                                              JAMALPUR                       Netrokona
                                                                                                                Mymensingh                              S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Silchar
                                                                                                              MYMENSINGH
                   Nowabganj                                                     Jam

                            RAJSHAHI                                               muuna                    D H A K A               Kishorganj                    MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                   Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges             Rajshahi                                  Serajganj
                                                     Natore                                                                                         HABIGANJ
                                                                        SERAJGANJ                                                 KISHORGANJ
                                                  NATORE                                            TANGAIL

                                                                                                  Tangail                                            Habiganj


                                                                  PABNA
                                                                   ABNA                                            GAZIPUR

                                                                 Pabna                                                      NARSINGDI
 24N                                                                                                             Gazipur                                                                                    24N
                                                                                                                            Narsingdi
   I N D I A                                KUSHTIA      Kushtia                           Manikanj       DHAKA                      MegBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                       hna                                             I N D I A
                                                                                                                                            Brahmanbaria


                                  Meherpur                                                                                                BARIA
                                                                                    Rajbari   MANIKGANJ
                       MEHERPUR                                                                                       NARAYNGANJ
                                                                                                                           YNGANJ
                                           Chuadanga                     RAJBARI                         DHAKA          Naraynganj

                                  CHUADANGA                                                    Faridpur                            COMILLA
                                                             Jhenaidah
                                                                      Magura                                MUNSHIGANJ Munshiganj
                                                JHENAIDAH                                FARIDPUR
                                                                                          ARIDPUR
                                                                   MAGURA                                     Ganges                     Comilla

 To                                                                                                           SARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                    CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                 Sariatpur
                                                  Jessore                 Narail                            Madaripur      Chandpur                                               Khagrachhari
                                                                          NARAIL                    MADARIPUR
                                                       JESSORE                             GOPALGANJ                                                                     KHAGRACHHARI
 23N                                               K H U L N A                               Gopalganj                                                Feni                                                  23N
                                                                                                                              LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                     FENI
                                                                              Khulna                        BARISAL             Luxmipur  NOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                           Noakhali                                   RANGAMATI
                                                      Satkhira      KHULNA                        PEROJPUR        Barisal   Bhola            C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                             Bagerhat             Jhalukathi
  To                                             SATKHIRA                                               JHALUKATHI                                                        Rangamati         Karnali
Calcutta                                                                          BAGERHAT          Perojpur                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                                      B A R I S A L                                            CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                 Patuakhali   BHOLA

                                                                             e      l      t  a                 PATUAKHALI                                 Chittagong
                                                                                                          Barguna
                         G       a    n     g      e    s               D
                                                                                                    BARGUNA                                                                               Bandarban


 22N                                                                                                                                      s                                              Mt. Mowdok         22N
                                                                                   s                                               g                                                          (957 m)
                                                                       b  a  n                                                          e

                                                         d         r                                                         a   n

                                            S   u    n        a
                                                                                                               t h e      G
                                                                                                                                                                                           BANDARBAN
                                                                                                    o   f                                                                COX'S
                                                                                                                                                                         COX'S

                                                                     M    o  u    t     h    s                                                                           BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar
                 0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                 0     10       20     30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                               MYANMAR
         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21N    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                     21N
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                              89E                                                90E                                  91E                                    92E                 Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 2004

