Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  
AB2932 
 
Project Name 
Armenia Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit IV (PRSCIV) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Development Policy Lending 
Project ID 
P101486 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Armenia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
Republic of Armenia 
Government House 1 
Republic Square, 375010 
Yerevan, Armenia 
Phone: 374-1-595304 
Date PID Prepared 
01/22/2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
10/11/2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
12/13/2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
(This section should discuss whether there has been good progress on important institutional and 
structural reforms. Highlight specific measures taken by the government and supported by this 
proposed loan. Note recent macroeconomic performance and poverty reduction efforts, if supported 
by sustainable policies.) 
Armenia has a creditable record of economic stability. The Armenian authorities continue carrying 
out a successful stabilization and structural reform program
 
following the hyperinflation, fiscal 
crisis and severe economic contraction immediately after independence in 1991-93. Reforms 
accelerated after 2000 with trade and prices liberalized and most small and medium-sized 
enterprises privatized. Macroeconomic stability was maintained, inflation was low, structural 
reforms were carried out and economic recovery began.  Successful implementation of economic 
reforms contributed to an average growth of 5.5 percent per year during 1994-2000 given the focus 
of reform on improving the business environment and public utilities management, strengthening 
governance, competition and financial intermediation as well as promoting structural changes in 
public service delivery.    
Deepening structural and institutional reforms resulted in a stellar annual average growth rates in 
double digits for the last 5 year in a row, averaging 12.9 per cent were achieved over 2001-06, 
peaking at 14 percent in 2005. Such high rates of sustained growth have led to a fall in poverty 
from over half of the population in 1999 to less than 30 percent in 2005, and an even sharper fall in 
severe poverty from 21 percent to less than 5 per cent.  Growth has recently begun to dent 
unemployment which stands at nearly one-third of the labor force.  During this time, economic 
growth was driven for the first time by a high rate of export expansion, which tripled in 2001-
2005. In 2001-2006 the average inflation remained at around 3.5 percent.  
Monetary policy is intended to be geared to keeping inflation low; the central bank has announced 
that inflation targeting will be formally adopted as soon as preparations are completed.  The 
exchange rate regime is assumed to be a floating one, with the dram likely to continue to 
Page  2
appreciate in real terms in parallel with high rates of productivity growth in the economy.  The 
external debt and debt service burden is low and is expected to remain comfortably low.  By the 
standards of CIS or of emerging economies, the economic record and the medium term outlook are 
enviable. 
 
The government continues to be committed to the reform program and 
macroeconomic 
performance
 continues to be most impressive.  In governance, tax administration reforms have 
been persistent with steady progress in designing self assessment of taxes and the strengthening of 
the functioning of the large tax payer unit.  Direct trader input systems have been introduced in the 
major custom houses and implementation will continue to be monitored closely in the coming 
months.  Risk-based systems are being adapted to support rules-based selectivity in import 
examinations, but will require a further year to be fully functional to international standards.   In 
the area of 
public management
 reforms, substantial gains have been realized.  Budgets follow 
GFS classification standards, with integrated charts of accounts and reporting standards. 
Programme budgeting has been piloted in key spending ministries.  Staff performance appraisal in 
the civil service is being adapted to allow for a merit based wage and bonus system.  
 
Second generation reforms to 
sharpen competition and entrench property rights 
have been 
undertaken
 
consisting of a cluster of crucial micro-economic reforms to reduce costs and raise 
efficiency.  The authorities have adopted a policy of liberalizing 
international civil aviation, 
railways, telecommunication and public utilities. 
To strengthen property rights and create the 
conditions for an efficient loans market, steps have been taken to strengthen creditor rights and 
make 
secured transactions
 possible. Further more reforms also focused on 
mitigating social and 
environmental risks.  
In 
education and health
,
reforms were directed at re-ordering priorities in 
spending, whilst spending in real terms were raised very substantially. Environmental risks have 
been reduced by the adoption of a national 
forestry policy
 and codes and by an increased role for 
environmental impact assessment and supervision in public policy. Reforms directed at 
modernizing the rural economy 
centered on stimulating 
farm incomes 
through implementing 
effective programmes for agricultural extension, research, the adoption of best practice seeds law 
and certification procedures and steps towards harmonizing food safety legislation to international 
standards.  A major focus remains the development of 
rural infrastructure development plan. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
(This section should describe the operation, including a clear, succinct statement of development objectives. 
It discusses the expected benefits of the proposed operation, expected impacts, and linkages to the 
Government’s program.  A description of the prior actions, i.e., conditions, for Board presentation should 
also be included in this section. ) 
 
Scope and objectives of the operation. 
The three main areas of focus for the operation are: (i) 
consolidating macroeconomic discipline and strengthening public and corporate governance, (ii) 
strengthening competition; and (iii) reducing environmental risks. In addition to the fact that the 
proposed PRSC builds on the Government’s PRSP themes, it is also closely linked to the FY05-08 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which focuses on three main objectives: (i) promoting private 
sector led growth; (ii) making growth more pre-poor; and (iii) reducing non-income poverty.  2007 
CAS-PR also envisions the proposed PRSC as the key elements of supporting PRSP 
implementation.  The PRSC preparation is also closely coordinated with the IMF Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and activities of other donors in Armenia.  
 
Page  3
Linkages to Government reform program and expected benefits
.
The proposed PRSCIV is  an 
extension to the set of three annual PRSCs rooted in the medium term Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PRSP) of the authorities.  The proposed credit is proposed to be extended on the basis of 
policy and institutional reform actions taken by the authorities as agreed with IDA.  Given 
substantial progress made, PRSC-IV will be made available as the agreed triggers of policy and 
institutional reforms are satisfied.  The main benefits of the proposed credit are to help sustain 
economic growth and poverty reduction by deepening Government’s high priority reforms and 
channeling financial and policy assistance in support of the implementation of the PRSP objectives 
to improve business environment, advance social sector reforms, and strengthen the rural economy 
 
Full description of prior actions is given below: 
 
PRSC IV Policy and Institutional Reform Actions 
Maintaining 
macroeconomic stability. 
In line with MTEF targets (2007), growth projected at 9 per cent, inflation 
at 4 per cent, and fiscal deficit below 2.5 per cent of GDP.  Continued 
strong improvement in fiscal and debt sustainability. 
Strengthening tax 
administration 
 
Strengthening customs 
administration 
Implement self-assessment in tax administration in line with action plan;  
Implement institutional reforms of the large taxpayer units in line with 
action plan.   
 
Implement comprehensive post-release review program destined to 
support full scale DTI introduction, and develop a guarantee mechanism 
supporting an approved importer scheme  
Corporate governance 
 
Registration law revised to provide for public access to key company 
records, including internet access to business registry; and plan adopted 
for public disclosure of owners of traded companies 
Strengthening competition  
In international civil aviation, sound progress towards meeting the end-
2007 target of amending all air service agreements with EU nations to 
replace "national" airlines with "EU" airlines and with implementation 
of all actions necessary to signing a new air services agreement with the 
US, consistent with Armenian legislation, by end-2007  
 
In telecommunications, the government will adopt the Armenian Table 
of Frequency Allocations to conform to the International 
Telecommunications Union Table of Frequency Allocations 
Reducing risks in natural 
resource management for 
sustainable livelihoods 
Implement the illegal logging monitoring system, with autonomy built into 
the operations of the monitoring institution.   
Expected outcomes and operation impact
.
In macroeconomic area it is expected that the 
national output will grow
 by 65 percent over the 2004-09/10 period, with 
income per head
 
approximating $2300 in constant 2004 dollars
.
Inflation
 is expected to be kept below 3 percent 
throughout 2004-07, consistent with 
fiscal deficits
 in the 2-3 percent of GDP range, on the basis of 
tax revenues
 rising from the equivalent of 14 percent of GDP in 2003 to 16 percent of GDP in 
2008.   
Page  4
Key institutional outcomes are expected to include attainment of international standards in 
customs control
 and in 
tax administration
.
Under PRSC-IV, risk-based selectivity will be used 
throughout customs by the introduction of the Asycuda selectivity module at networked customs 
locations.  The introduction of Asycuda World will make possible a single window approach for 
all imports, strengthen the transit process and facilitate the elaboration of a proper import valuation 
system.  These reforms would lead to greater automaticity and predictability in clearance of goods, 
will reduce discretion and lower business costs.  The two key reform actions in tax administration 
–
self-assessment and large taxpayer units - have been chosen on the basis of the expected impact 
on the criteria outlined above – efficiency, probity, and business impact.   
 
The 
improved competition environment
 will be evident in a fall in transport costs in aviation, 
rail services and in 
quality gains in utilities services
 in line with quantitative indicators set as 
minimum service quality standard for frequency and duration of available service.  A new 
telecommunication and aviation policy statements are planned which would provide pre-conditions 
for the entry of new operators.   
Strengthened 
corporate governance
 via increasing transparency and accountability will be 
assisted by: (i) establishing internet access to the business registry; (ii) developing a plan for public 
disclosure of the ultimate owners of publicly traded companies; and (iii) conducting an Accounting 
and Auditing ROSC to identify ways of strengthening financial reporting practices.  Accountability 
will be promoted by preparing a model charter that will strengthen the responsibilities of 
supervising boards of directors and ensure that they maintain minimum levels of qualifications. It 
is expected that these measures will be a critical underpinning to a vibrant and competitive market 
economy, with strong governance increasing transparency and reducing opportunities for 
corruption.   
Strengthening illegal logging authority in Armenia will have a tremendous effect on 
natural 
resource management systems
.
The impact of PRSC supported forestry reforms and illegal 
logging  in Armenia is also likely to have a substantial impact on sustainable livelihoods.  Forests 
serve as the safety nets for rural population.  Forests served as safety net during the period of harsh 
economic and energy crises in early 1990s. Wild food and fuel-wood were by far the two most 
important forest products harvested from forests. The over-exploitation of forests continues, which 
will result in considerable negative impact of sustainable livelihoods in Armenia.  To avoid 
degradation of its already scarce forest resources, Armenia must maintain efficient forest 
management institutions. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
(This section should describe the main areas where specific actions are supported by the proposed 
operation.  List the principal benefits of the proposed operation. Note how the proposed operation would 
support the government to pursue its policy objectives within a structured macroeconomic framework and 
how the operation would strengthen overall performance of the economy and contribute to poverty 
alleviation.) 
The proposed credit will continue help strengthen overall performance of the economy and will 
contribute to further poverty alleviation by building up on previous measures (PRSC I, II and III). 
Specifically, the Credit will support measures in three main areas: (i) strengthening public (tax and 
customs) management and corporate governance; (ii) sharpening competition, in particular 
focusing on aviation and telecommunication sectors; and (iii) reducing risks in natural resource 
management for sustainable livelihoods by advancing illegal logging agenda.  
 
Page  5
The proposed PRSC program is fully aligned with the principal priorities of the authorities’ PRSP.  
The chief linkages to an enhanced effort on poverty reduction are several.   
 
(i) Ensuring that high rates of growth are sustained over the medium term through the 
strengthening of the environment for competition and private markets, the economy will benefit 
from employment and opportunities arising from business formation and expansion, and budgetary 
resources will be increased for PRSP objectives.   
 
(ii) Continued strong re-direction of public expenditures towards activities that add to human 
capital, enhance opportunities for the poor, reduce social risk and offer improved social protection, 
will add to the flexibility of labor supply and to incentives for enterprise, thereby reducing poverty.   
 
(iii) Continuation of deep-seated structural reforms in public governance will raise the quality of 
public services and administration, thereby addressing a key weakness in Armenia’s transition 
record thus far.   
 
4.    Environnent Aspects 
(The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to cause 
significant effects on the 
country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. For country policies 
with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any relevant relevant country-level or sectoral 
environmental analysis of the borrower’s systems for reducing such adverse effects and enhancing positive 
effects.) 
 
The PRSC supports several policy and institutional reforms in the environment and forestry sector 
by focusing on environmental supervision, national forest policy, combating illegal logging, 
establishing community forestry, and institutional restructuring in the forestry sector.  Key 
government policies and programs that are addressed through the PRSC cover (i) environmental 
impact assessment and supervision and (ii) policy and institutional reforms in the forest sector.  
These actions are partially supported by the ongoing Natural Resources Management and Poverty 
Reduction Project (NRMPRP), which aims to support sustainable natural resource management in 
mountainous areas of Armenia, where degradation of natural resources is reaching a critical point.   
Actions under the PRSC are expected to have a substantial beneficial impact on environmental 
management.  Key environmental risks in the country are expected to be reduced by creation of 
community forestry programs and reduction of illegal logging, and improvement in water supply.  
 
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
28.0 
Government of Netherlands 
 5.0 
 Total 
33.0 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Contact: Saumya Mitra 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:  (202) 458-9713 
Fax: (202) 522-2753 
Page  6
Email: 
Smitra@worldbank.org
