Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2641-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR AN
EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 29, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Peso (RD$)
US$1.00              =    RD$1.00
US$1,000,000          =   RD$1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)      =    2.2 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)       =    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
SEOPC   -   Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y
Communicaciones (Secretariat of State of
Public Works and Communications)
ONAPLAN -   Oficina Nacional de Planificacion (National
Planning Office)
IDB     -   Inter-American Development Bank
USAID   -   United States Agency for International
Development
TSS     -   Transport Sector Study
CMU     -   Construction Management Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AN EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Dominican Republic
Amjiount:           US$25 million
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years of grace at 7.95
percent per annum interest rate.
Projec t
Dls-ription:        The project, which is part of the Government's hurricane
Emergency Reconstruction Program, would permit the recon-
struction of two roads, totalling 150 km. The 86 km Cruce
de Guayacanes to Santiago de la Cruz road connects the
agricultural north western area to Santiago, the country's
second largest city. The 64 km. Azua-Barahona road links
the southwestern part of the country to the capital city.
Both roads were scheduled for reconstruction over the
1982-84 period under SEOPC's five-year (1980-84) recon-
struction program which was reviewed in May-June 1979 at
the time of appraisal of the proposed Second Highway
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. After extensive
damage caused by floods that accompanied the hurricanes at
Lhe end of August-early September 1979, the reconstruction
of these two roads was advanced to 1980-82. Above average
project risk could arise from strained SEOPC capacity result-
ing from additional demands from the reconstruction task.
The risk of serious delays and inadequate project manage-
ment and funding has been reduced by the establishment of
a Construction Management Unit with high level expertise,
and the creation of a Special Revolving Fund.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             In view of the urgency of this project, no Staff Appraisal
Report has been prepared. The sectoral framework and
the reconstruction program of which the two project roads
are part are reviewed and evaluated in detail in the
Staff Appraisal Report for the proposed Second Highway
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project dated November 1,
1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign    Total
-----(US$ Million)-----
Civil Works                 9.3     17.3     26.6
Equipment                   0.1      1.4       1.5
Construction
Management Unit           0.4      0.3      0.7
Supervision                 1.1      0.6      1.7
Base Total            10.9     19.6     30.5
Contingencies:
Physical.                 1.0      2.0      3.0
Price                     1.9      3.4      5.3
Total Costs           13.8     25.0     38.8
Financial Plan:                               Local    Foreign   Total
-----(US$ Million)-----
IBRD                          -     25.0     25.0
Government                 13.8        -      13.8
Estimated                                       -----US$ Million----
Disbursements:       Bank FY                     1980    1981    1982
Annual                       7.0    15.0      3.0
Cumulative                   7.0    22.0    25.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           Preliminary estimates based on identification surveys
carried out before the hurricane damages showed benefit/
cost ratios above 3.0 for both project roads using a
discount factor of 12 percent.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
TO FINANCE AN EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to $25 million to the Dominican Republic to finance an Emergency
Road Reconstruction Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years including
a grace period of 4 years. It would bear an interest rate of 7.95 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report "Current Economic Memorandum on the
Dominican Republic," (Report No. 2492-DO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1979. Relevant social and economic data are presented
in Annex I. This section describes recent economic trends prior to the
onslaught of hurricanes David and Frederick in August/September 1979. Part
III assesses the impact of the hurricanes on the economy.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican economy experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. In 1974-1977, however,
economic growth slowed to only 5.3 percent per year. In 1978, preliminary
estimates indicate a further decline to 3.6 percent, while in 1979 it may be
negative because of the hurricanes.
4.        Economic growth during 1968-74 was led by exports of sugar and
minerals, by tourism and a high level of both private and public investment.
During that period, the Dominican Republic was able to increase substantially
the volume of sugar exports, start the exploitation of ferronickel deposits,
undertake vigorous industrial expansion (mostly in import substitution indus-
tries), and establish itself in the Caribbean tourism market. The main reasons
for slower growth in recent years were poor agricultural performance, partly as
a result of droughts in 1975 and 1977, increases in petroleum prices since 1974,
the drop in sugar prices after 1975, which had a strong impact on domestic
aggregate demand, and--more recently--the depressed world market for ferronickel
and bauxite. Manufacturing, oriented mainly to the domestic market and heavily
dependent on imported intermediate and capital goods, had been particularly
affected by the slow growth of the economy and by shortages of electricity.
Industrial expansion during 1975-78 averaged 4.7 percent per year, compared
with the 1968-74 average rate of 13.7 percent.
5.        The country's balance of payments, like that of most energy import-
ing, primary products exporting countries, deteriorated in the latter part of
this decade. In 1974 the cost of petroleum imports increased by over US$100
million and was largely responsible for the deficit in the balance of payments
in that year. Between 1973 and 1978, the cost of petroleum imports in relation
to the value of sugar exports increased from 24 percent, to 92 percent, and is
expected to reach 109 percent in 1979.   Steep increases in the price of sugar



- 2 -
created a surplus in 1975; but since then, sugar prices have fallen drastically,
the demand for ferronickel and bauxite has been weak, and the production of
coffee and cocoa stagnated, with the result that the deficit on current
account has widened. The balance of payments has also become sensitive to
flows of capital from private sources, which in turn reflect the perception
abroad of factors affecting risk and uncertainty in the Dominican economy.
Because of a de facto dual exchange rate system and the openness of the
economy, the weakness in the balance of payments is partly reflected in a 20
percent premium at which the U.S. dollar trades in the parallel market. There
was an unprecedented overall balance-of-payments deficit of US$95 million in
1978 reflecting an estimated increase in the current account deficit from
US$264 million in 1977 to US$377 million in 1978 due to continued decline in
sugar prices, a drop in coffee and cocoa prices, a substantial reduction of
the volume of coffee and ferronickel exports; and a decline in net capital
inflows. Because of the massive increase in petroleum prices, the current
account deficit in 1979 was expected to reach US$480 million before the
hurricanes.
6.        Inflation, which was minimal during the 1960s, accelerated in the
1970s. The average annual increase in the Santo Domingo consumer price
index during 1971-77 amounted to 11.8 percent. This same index indicates a
reduction in the rate of inflation during 1978 to 3.5 percent, reflecting
a fall in food prices following the recovery of domestic food production from
the effects of drought, and stable housing costs. These categories account
for almost two thirds of the weight in the index, and have been the sources of
upward pressure on prices during most of the decade. Recent increases in
gasoline prices, electricity rates, and wages have generated more upward
pressure on prices during 1979.
7.        Past fiscal policy was cautious.   In 1968-77, current budget sur-
pluses averaged 6 percent of GDP (varying between 3 percent in 1968 and
10 percent in 1975) and financed, on average, 98.5 percent of the Central
Government's capital expenditures. Although the Government's long-term savings
performance was impressive, it was achieved at the expense of low growth of
current expenditures, especially wages and salaries. During 1968-77, the
average annual growth of recurrent expenditures was about 1.6 percent in real
terms, and average real salaries of government employees dropped considerably.
This austerity limited the Government's ability to operate and maintain the
country's economic and social infrastructure as well as to attract and retain
capable personnel in government service.
8.        In 1978, the fiscal situation deteriorated, with an overall Central
Government deficit estimated at RD$114.5 million, mainly as a result of
a lower current surplus of RD$175 million, compared with RD$278.4 million
in 1977. The reduction in the current surplus was attributable to wage
increases granted to public employees, to a reduction of about RD$40 million
in revenues due to lower value of sugar exports, the temporary suspension
of export taxes on cocoa and coffee, and subsequent reduction by 50 percent
of export taxes on coffee.
9.        The Government which took office in August 1978 proposes to adopt
measures to strengthen the balance of payments and public sector finances,



- 3 -
stimulate export growth and eliminate price distortions unfavorable to agricul-
ture and employment creation. Although a comprehensive package of economic
measures has not yet reached the stage of implementation, it is clear that the
Government has recognized the need for appropriate adjustments in policy. It
has resisted pressure to launch an ad hoc public works program to palliate the
country's acute unemployment problem. The Congress has recently approved
legislation - an Export Promotion Law - providing tax incentives to export,
and allowing those engaged in non-traditional export activities to sell their
foreign exchange earnings in the parallel market which normally trades at a
premium over the official exchange rate. The Congress is also considering
legislation providing special incentives for agro-industry. The Government
is seeking to strengthen the fiscal situation by channelling the plethora of
earmarked taxes and special funds, which formerly put a large part of public
sector resources beyond the allocation decisions of the annual budget, into a
single consolidated fund and by improving administration of income taxes and
customs duties. Taxes on liquor and cigarettes were increased earlier this
year, while the tax on gasoline was increased when the prices of petroleum
products were adjusted to reflect the rise in crude oil prices toward the end
of June. It is expected that draft tax legislation including value added and
sales taxes, and modifications in the real estate tax, will shortly be put
before Congress. Also, measures are being taken to strengthen the autonomous
agencies such as the electricity company, for which an increase in rates was
recently approved, and the sugar corporation, which was relieved of the burden
of a cross subsidy to the electricity company. The Government's ability to
secure approval by Congress of the draft legislation will be critical to its
success in improving public sector finances. Its willingness to apply the
export promotion law in a flexible manner, and to adopt an appropriate monetary
program - as soon as the hurricane emergency permits - will be critical to
its efforts to diversify exports and strengthen the balance-of-payments.
10.       Creditworthiness has recently become of some concern.   The large
balance-of-payments' deficit in 1978 resulted in the depletion of the coun-
try's already low net reserves. The level of gross reserves fell to less
than the equivalent of two months of imports, and the prospect is for further
reserve loss in 1979. Arrears in current payments, a periodic phenomenon in
the Dominican Republic, are increasing once more. While the Administration
is aware of these problems, its ability to implement appropriate corrective
measures has suffered from legislative delays. These considerations adversely
affect the country's ability to obtain financing from commercial sources even
though the level of the public external debt in relation to GDP -- 15.3
percent at the end of 1978 -- and the ratio of public external debt service to
exports -- 10.2 percent in 1978 -- are not high in comparison to other develop-
ing countries. The impact of the hurricanes (discussed in detail below) will
add only one-half percentage point to the debt service ratio which was expected
to rise to 18 percent in 1979 because of bunched repayment obligations, before
declining to 15 percent in 1980. The country's future borrowing requirements
will, however, be quite large, and will necessitate both concessionary and
non-official funds. The Government has indicated that it will implement the
needed economic measures while addressing the country's social problems.
Because of limited export prospects, the recent petroleum price increase, and
the additional economic constraints resulting from hurricane damages, there
will obviously be difficulties in harmonizing these goals. As we continue the



- 4 -
dialogue on economic policy, we will be monitoring closely the Government's
response to the challenges it faces. We consider that the Dominican Republic
will continue to be creditworthy for Bank lending provided the Government
expeditiously implements policy measures which have recently been approved by
its Congress and others which it is now preparing.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
11.       The Bank Group began operations in the Dominican Republic in 1969.
Except for an enclave mining project, lending to the Dominican Republic was
on IDA terms prior to FY1975. Since then lending has been on Bank terms,
including two Third Window operations. Two loans, for a tourism infrastruc-
ture project and a second education project, were approved in FY1975 and two
loans, both on Third Window terms, for highway rehabilitation and maintenance
and population and family health, were approved in FY1977. Two loans, for
irrigation (Nizao Irrigation Project) and tourism (Second Puerto Plata Tourism
Project), were approved in FY1979, and a sugar rehabilitation project was
approved in the first quarter of FY1980. Total Bank loans and IDA credits
outstanding amount to US$135.1 million, of which US$88.7 million are undis-
bursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group loans and credits
as of October 31, 1979 and notes on the progress of ongoing projects.
12.       IFC has financed two operations in the Dominican Republic, an
investment in a cement plant approved in 1974, and a line of credit for
small and medium scale industry approved in 1978. Other projects are under
consideration by IFC.
13.       In the absence of adequate project preparation and of clear
investment priorities, the Dominican Republic did not in the past make
full use of official long-term external assistance. Total lending of this
type amounted to US$335 million during 1970-77. The present Government has
recently approved a three-year public investment program which would permit
an increase of long term funds from external development agencies to finance
the program. Assistance from IDB has included agriculture (credit programs
and irrigation); power (two multi-purpose hydroelectric projects and rural
electrification); water supply and sewerage; and higher education. U.S.
long-term assistance consisted mainly of food (PL480) and loans for agricul-
ture, health, and education. Assistance from IDB over the next three years is
expected to include agriculture (with a major emphasis on agrarian settlement
programs and credit), potable water, irrigation and power. AID assistance
would concentrate on agricultural credit, integrated rural development and
rural road maintenance.
14.       Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has aimed at strength-
ening the balance of payments; improving social services available to the
lower income groups, particularly in rural areas; improving agricultural



- 5 -
production and land distribution; and strengthening institutions responsible
for major economic sectors. We have in the aftermath of hurricanes David
and Frederick reviewed Bank lending operations in the light of urgent recon-
struction requirements. This project and a proposed loan to finance urgent
import requirements, which has also been submitted to the Executive Directors,
constitute the Bank's contribution to the immediate reconstruction effort.
A second road maintenance reconstruction project now also before the Executive
Directors is part of the Government's long term highway rehabilitation program,
which remains of high priority. Other projects under consideration are an
industrial credit operation, a coffee and cocoa rehabilitation program and a
low income housing project-with emphasis on the provision of sites and services.
15.       The Bank Group's share in the Dominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 5.5 percent at the end of
1978. The Bank Group's share of external public debt service in 1978 was
5 percent. Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to
about 12 by 1985, while its share of external public debt service would
increase to about 6 percent.
PART III - THE HURRICANES
16.       On August 31, Hurricane David, with winds of 150 miles per hour,
smashed into the southern coast just west of Santo Domingo and crossed the
western section of the country to Monte Cristi, on the north coast just east
of the border with Haiti. On September 2, Frederick followed the same path
bringing less wind but deluging most of the country with torrential rains for
four days and causing extensive flooding of low lying plains and in the
fertile Cibao Valley, and landslides in many areas.
17.       The death toll has been set at over 2,000, with the majority of
deaths being attributed to drowning. Greater loss of life was avoided by
moving people, prior to the hurricanes, from squatter settlements in low
lying areas into schools, churches and public buildings offering more substan-
tial shelter. An estimated 100,000 people are now living precariously in
refugee centers. Over one million people were still receiving emergency
assistance in October.
18.       Damage to property has been extensive.     Some 2,400 km of roadway
and 58 bridges were destroyed. In the power sector, one hydroelectric
station was destroyed and generating facilities were flooded at two other
dams, while heavy damage was done to the transmission and distribution
network in the southwest. In the industrial sector, damages include the
complete de-roofing of factories in the Haina industrial area and partial
de-roofing of the Herrera industrial estate in Santo Domingo.      Damage to
housing is only partially reflected in the total destruction of over 20,000
units.
19.       The economic impact of the disaster derives in part from the direct
loss of current production due to the destruction of crops and livestock, the
damage to goods in warehouses, and the interruption of services, notably in
the public utilities, distribution and transportation sectors. In addition,



- 6 -
there will be an impact on future production due to impairment of productive
capacity which will take time to be restored. This is likely to be significant
in the case of permanent tree crops and forests, livestock, and electricity.
The latter suffered loss of one-fifth of its generation capacity.
20.        Current estimates suggest a production loss of some RD$350-400 million
in 1979, which will have the effect of converting an expected 4 to 5 percent
positive growth in GDP into a negative growth of about 3 percent. While there
should be a substantial recovery in 1980, production losses in 1980 attribut-
able to the hurricanes could be as much as RD$130 million (in 1979 prices)
or 2 percent of CDP.
21.        Economic growth is very likely to be reduced over the medium term,
not only because the repair of damage to assets will take time, but also
because the cost of repair and replacement will require the diversion of
investment from uses which would have created a net addition to productive
capacity. The degree of investment diversion will depend on the extent
to which additional foreign resources become available.
22.        The Dominican Republic is likely to suffer further deterioration
in the goods and services account in the balance of payments. Coffee suffered
extensive damage to the current crop with losses estimated at 25-30 percent
and of about US$40 million in export earnings. In sugar, the production loss
has been put at around 125,000 tons with an export value of US$30 million.
Cocoa export earnings could be down by US$20 million. Earnings from non-
traditional exports will be reduced due to damage to factories and
infrastructure.
23.       The impact of these losses will not be limited to 1979, since not all
the lost production would have been exported before December 31. In 1979,
exports of goods and services will be reduced by US$35 million. An increase
in imports will be required because of production loss for domestic consumption,
damage to inventories of inputs, and to buildings and equipment. The goods
and non-factor services account in 1979 is expected to deteriorate by US$60
million, but deterioration could be larger if reconstruction efforts gain
momentum. For 1980, an increase in the goods and non-factor services deficit
of about US$120 million can be expected because of hurricane damages.



- 7 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Estimates and Projections)
(millions of US dollars)
Pre-Hurricane Post-Hurricane
1979           1979             1980
Exports of goods
and NFS                     +946            910             1,156
Imports of goods
and NFS                    -1,424         -1,445           - 1,813
Resource balance               -478           -535              -657
Factor services, net           -145           -145              -191
Current transfers, net         +143           +203              +207
Balance on Current Account     -480           -477              -641
Direct foreign
investment, net               45            -25 /a             50
Public and publicly
guaranteed loans, net        158            143               107
Other medium long-term
loans, net                     9               9               59
Short-term flow, grants
and other                     95             95               115
Special hurricane loans /b       -              52               191
Basic balance                  -173           -203              -119
IMF drawing, net                 51             75                -
Use of reserves                 122             128              119
/a Including purchase of Rosario Mining Company by Government for
US$70 million.
/b Including this proposed loan and the Emergency Road Reconstruction
loan.
24.       Assuming an increase of US$60 million in current transfers due
to greater assistance from Dominicans residing abroad, to settlement of re-
insurance claims and to emergency aid, the outlook is for the 1979 current
account deficit to remain at the pre-hurricane projection of around US$480
million. In the capital account, the main changes attributable to the hurri-
canes are inflows of reconstruction loans and reduced disbursement of
previously arranged project loans. Although emergency reconstruction loans
of almost US$300 million are expected to be committed, disbursements during
1979 are not expected to be much above US$50 million.



- 8 -
25.       The basic balance of payments in 1979 is likely to deteriorate by
more than US$30 million when compared with pre-hurricane estimates. Drawings
of US$75 million (net) from the IMF will help to cushion the impact on gross
reserves, but unless payments can be reduced, deferred or additional resources
borrowed, the country's gross reserves will be seriously depleted. Reduction
of the overall deficit by curtailing imports is not feasible for 1979. Prior
to the hurricanes, an overall import increase of 16 percent over the 1978
level had been estimated, of which 14 percent was due to an expected increase
in import prices and 2 percent to increase in real imports. Given the damage
to local crops and the need for imported reconstruction materials, import
reduction seems unlikely and indeed undesirable. In 1979 increased imports
of US$20 million due to the hurricane are likely, while in 1980, the level of
imports is projected to increase by an additional US$368 million due partly to
higher prices and to the inflows of reconstruction imports. The latter will
partly be financed by the disbursement of about US$190 million of special
hurricane reconstruction loans, including this and en emergency road reconstruc-
tion loan. Assuming a substantial recovery in exports, additional transfers
and heavy disbursement of special loans, the overall balance of payments could
improve over former expectations, but a gap of US$119 million is likely to
remain. This would not be sustainable without additional financing, since by
then gross reserves may be approaching depletion. The authorities are consider-
ing an expansion of the list of imports not eligible for official foreign
exchange to dampen import demand. Nevertheless, additional financing over and
above that presently expected will still likely be needed, and is expected to
come mainly from commercial and bilateral sources. This clearly indicates the
need for fundamental adjustments to balance of payments weaknesses that were
already evident before the hurricanes and that have now been further aggravated.
26.       As a result of the loss in production in general and especially in
coffee and cocoa, and also the likely change in the level and structure of
trade, current revenues of Government in 1979 are expected to decline by RD$25
million, or 4 percent of budgeted collections. Without the expected increase
in revenue from imports and from recently introduced higher taxation of
gasoline, this reduction would be greater. The fiscal situation will still be
quite tight; pre-hurricane projections pointed to a decline in the current
fiscal savings of the Central Government from RD$175 million in 1978 to RD$59
million in 1979 and a concurrent increase in the overall deficit from RD$115
million to RD$188 million. In addition to already programmed capital expen-
ditures, emergency expenditure requirements by Government of over RD$110
million have been identified, part of which will have to be met in 1979.
However, because some planned capital outlays will now be deferred, the
increase in the 1979 deficit will likely be modest. Although there are no
estimates of the fiscal impact of the hurricanes in 1980, the expected slower
growth could mean that a projected current surplus of RD$90 million will not
be realized and that the capital program will continue to be determined by
borrowed foreign resources. Two implications emerge from this situation.
First, the recently approved three-year public investment program may need
to be reduced. Second, measures are required to improve the rate of absorp-
tion of foreign loans in order to expedite disbursement if the Government's
reconstruction efforts are not to be constrained by lack of funds.



-9-
The Reconstruction Program
27.       The total damage to physical assets in both the public and the
private sectors has been estimated at RD$400-500 million. Some of these
assets were covered by insurance and a substantial part of the task of
reconstruction will be left to private initiative. The public sector program
which will address the needs of the destitute and the restoration of public
infrastructure and facilities, is being developed in two stages. The first,
primarily of an emergency nature, provides for the restoration of essential
services and domestic food production capability; the second will involve the
adjustment of the recently completed three-year public sector investment
program in order to achieve a blend of replacement and improvement objectives
and adjustments to changes in resource availability. The first phase emergency
reconstruction program is expected to be 40 percent completed in 1979 and will
continue until the end of 1980. It will cost around RD$230 million. The
second stage is under preparation; the following paragraphs refer to the
emergency reconstruction program.
28.       In agriculture, primary emphasis will be on the recovery of produc-
tion of food crops reflected in a program of soil preparation, fertilizer
application and provision of seeds, with the objective of cultivating over
200,000 hectares with maize, red beans, rice, vegetables, cassava, bananas,
and sweet potatoes. This replanting program will be accompanied by the
repair of irrigation ditches, canals, and dams and the cleaning of drainage
ditches in flooded areas. Another program includes the immediate rehabilita-
tion of plantations of coffee, cocoa, and plantains; a more permanent effort
is being considered for the longer term. The rehabilitation of the fishing
industry will involve the construction of 150 boats in new drydock facilities
while RD$60,000 worth of outboard motors will be imported to replace lost or
damaged ones and to outfit the new fishing fleet. Of the total cost of the
agricultural program of around RD$50 million (not including the regular opera-
tional cost of the Ministry of Agriculture) about RD$14 million will be pro-
vided as credit through the state-owned Agricultural Bank.
29.       In the transport sector, the reconstruction of roads and bridges,
ports and wharves is expected to involve an expenditure of RD$52 million, of
which almost RD$11 million to reestablish road communications is consid-
ered urgent. Deterioration of the Dominican road system has been of concern
for some time. The recent disaster, however, has added emphasis to this need
and has pointed out some weaknesses in the system. Among highways, highest
priority has been assigned to the reconstruction of Azua-Barahona, and Cruz de
Guayacanes-Santiago de la Cruz, Sanchez and Duarte. The first two comprise
the proposed Emergency Road Project. The reconstruction of Sanchez and
Duarte, which require minor repairs, is being undertaken with local funds.
Some 2,000 km of rural road construction will be carried out with financing
from the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB). The ports of Boca Chica,
Haina, Santo Domingo, Barahona and Azua are also to be repaired. This will
involve dredging of channels which have been choked by silt, removal of
sunken or damaged vessels, repair of warehousing and cargo handling equipment,
and replacement of navigational aids.
30.       Repairs to the power generation and distribution system were started
immediately after the hurricanes and there has been substantial restoration
of supply on an emergency basis, but with considerably diminished system
reliability. The longer term reconstruction program includes the restoration
of the transmission and distribution network at a cost of RD$20 million of



- 10 -
which 90 percent of expenditures will be to purchase mostly imported materials.
Nearly 1,500 km of power lines will be installed in the process. The second
largest expenditure amounting to RD$14 million will be for the repair of hydro-
generation facilities at Valdesia, Tavera and complete replacement at Jimenoa.
The drying out of the first two should be accomplished within 5 months while
Jimenoa will require 30 months for reconstruction. Damages to thermal units
at Haina and Santo Domingo and to diesel units at Constanza and Ocoa will cost
less than RD$3 million and will require about 3 months for completion. The
diesel units are especially required for handling peak loads and their repair
is critical if presently frequent outages are to be avoided in the near
future.
31.        The program for restoring potable water supply calls for the recon-
struction of collapsed entombment and filtration facilities, replacement of
destroyed mains, cleaning of silt blocked pipes and the repair of electrical
pumping facilities. The projected cost of RD$5 million reflects the fact that
a substantial restoration of supply has already been achieved. This figure
includes a provision for the trucking of water to maintain emergency supplies
in some areas.
32.        Given the substantial damage to housing, the large number of people
living in centers of refuge, and the need to release public buildings for
normal use, the provision of alternative shelter is now urgent. While the
reconstruction program in housing is expected to cost some RD$30 million, the
first phase calls for an expenditure of RD$8 million of which RD$6 million will
be spent in rural areas to provide 3,000 temporary tent shelters with sanitary
and cooking facilities at a cost of about RD$150 each, and about 3,000 prefab-
ricated houses costing about RD$1,500 each. Also 5 to 6 thousand houses will
be repaired under this program. In urban areas the initial objective is to
repair about 7,000 units at a total cost of RD$1 million and to provide
multi-family structures to accomodate about 2,000 families at an average cost
of RD$500 per family. Another part of the program seeks to address the needs
of the income-earning homeless by providing low cost lots on publicly-owned
lands together with suitable financing to permit the people to re-house
themselves on land not subject to flooding. Some RD$7 million has been
earmarked for repairing school buildings, and about the same amount for repair
of health facilities. The re-development of these services will be carried
out over the longer term, full account being taken of the changing settlement
patterns and geographical distribution of population in the aftermath of
re-housing efforts.
33.       While most industries are assumed to have had adequate insurance,
the rehabilitation of the industrial sector requires that provision be made
for increased credit for replacing inventories, restoring working capital,
and providing a cushion in cases of inadequate coverage. A recuperation
fund amounting to RD$50 million has been established by the Central Bank
within the Investment Fund for Industrial Development to help this sector in
its reconstruction efforts.
34.        These plans, while still tentative and incomplete in some details,
indicate at once the magnitude of the task of reconstruction and the additional
resources which will be required. The managerial and technical capabilities



- 11 -
exist within the country, but the main shortfall will be in the area of
financial, specifically foreign exchange, resources. The following pledges or
proposals of external assistance have been announced; these figures in some
cases including programmed operations that have been advanced as well as net
increases in lending programs.
Multilateral Assistance
IDB              US$100 million
IBRD             US$50 million
Bilateral Assistance
Federal Republic of Germany: D Mark 20 million = about US$11 million
Venezuela        US$40 million
U.S.A.I.D.       US$15 million
In addition to the multilateral assistance mentioned above drawings amounting
to SDR50.75 million equivalent to US$66 million have been permitted by the IMF
for emergency balance of payments support. Of the multilateral and bilateral
sources of external finance, only the IMF's facilities, and US$20 million from
Venezuela would be disbursed by the end of 1979. About US$40 million of IDB
loans and the proposed US$25 million Bank loan to finance urgent import require-
ments will be quick disbursing, and are expected to be drawn down during the
first half of 1980. The Dominican Republic may also benefit from a provision
of US$1-1/3 million allocated by the European Economic Community for assistance
to countries which have been hit by hurricane David. This short list does not
fully reflect the external resources which may become available when discussions
with other potential donors and lenders are completed. Neither does it reflect
the substantial contribution of an emergency nature that has been provided by
a large group of institutions and countries, but it does provide a background
against which to appreciate the crucial role of Bank support in financing the
longer term reconstruction effort.
PART IV - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
The Transport Sector
35.       The Dominican Republic relies for its transportation upon an exten-
sive road network, nine international ports, two operating international
airports and nine domestic airports, a publicly owned-railway line and several
private lines.  International freight traffic is concentrated in the Santo
Domingo and Haina ports in the South, and Puerto Plata in the North, which
handle almost 60 percent of all imports and exports excluding petroleum.    Haina
port handles most of the country's petroleum imports of about 1.7 million tons.
International air traffic, which expanded rapidly since 1970, is almost
exclusively handled at Santo Domingo international airport. Minor tourism
traffic and some cargo for export, is handled at La Romana international
airport. A new airport is being constructed at the tourist area of Puerto
Plata. International road traffic between Haiti and the Dominican Republic
is negligible.



- 12 -
36.       Because of the smalL size of the country, the location of its
resources and its economic structure, internal transport distances are short.
The main exports--sugar and minerals--normally require hauls of less than 100
km. Average hauling distances do not exceed 125 km. This has made highway
transport the most widely used mode, accounting for almost 99 percent of total
domestic transport of goods (excluding sugarcane and sugar products) and
passengers. The railway network, which encompasses about 1,600 km, provides
freight transport for sugarcane and sugar products.
37.       The transport system in the country is broadly adequate, and although
the road network is not dense, it provides access to all major producing areas.
However, with a decline of transport sector investments in recent years, and
inadequate funding for operation and maintenance of physical facilities,
the present condition of the system is poor. This has been exacerbated by
hurricane damages, which have rendered acute the need for road rehabilitation,
in particular.
Planning and Coordination
38.       Investment decisions for most public transport expenditures are made
by the Office of the Presidency in its National Planning Office (ONAPLAN).
ONAPLAN is responsible for sectoral planning, taking into account the plans
prepared by the relevant agencies. The Secretariat of Public Works (SEOPC)
which is responsible for the transport system, has in the past lacked adequate
capability to conduct sector planning and coordination. It has therefore had
to seek the assistance of foreign consultants. In 1973, a Highway Rehabilita-
tion and Administration Study (under UNDP financing) was prepared with the
Bank acting as executing agency. In 1978, a Technical-Economic Transport
Sector Study (TSS) was prepared with IDB assistance. These studies, parti-
cularly the second, contained a survey of the sector and identified high
priority studies needed to provide a basis for adequate planning. Imple-
mentation of the recommendations of these studies has been curtailed by
lack of adequate institutional arrangements, informality of the project
selection process, absence of statistics and systematized data collection
for transport planning, and, until recently, failure to include economic
feasibility considerations in the formulation of investment programs. Further-
more, the capacity of SEOPC to carry out these tasks has been limited by its
inability to attract and retain qualified staff, caused, in part, by the low
salaries paid. More recently, SEOPC has formulated a program to reorganize
and strengthen its administrative and planning capabilities. In this context,
it has negotiated with IDB a two year technical assistance program.
39.       The transport sector does not present major issues of intermodal
coordination and planning, and the lack of overall sectoral planning has not
resulted in any major misallocation of resources. For the future, the attitude
of the present Administration, which recognized the problem and intends to
begin implementation of a modern personnel administration system and to
strengthen planning--particularly in the highway mode--is a positive develop-
ment. The establishment by SEOPC of a Road Reconstruction Planning Unit
responsible for the Government's long-term reconstruction efforts and for the
formulation of road rehabilitation and maintenance programs, both integral
parts of the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, would provide



- 13 -
the basis for the improvement of planning in the highway r,ode, which at this
time constitutes an urgent need, in view of SEOPC's ambitious public investment
program and tight fiscal situation. SEOPC's capacity would be supplemented b'
a special Construction Management Unit responsible for the execution of civil
works under the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project.
Recent Sector Improvements and Developments
40.       The administration which took office in August 1978 is in the
process of formulating its goals for the sector. The TSS is the strongest
background document for Government followup. From its recommendations for
studies, policies and preliminary project investment identification, the
Government is selecting a few for early implementation. The vehicle axle
load and dimension regulations and the administrative reorganization of SEOPC,
are the most important. Among the investments identified, a countrywide list
of road rehabilitation priorities is being used as a base for the Government's
1980-1984 reconstruction program. In the port subsector, the recommendations
for the construction of a new port at Haina and expansior. works at Puerto
Plata are also being followed.
41.       A public sector investment plan for 1980-1982 has recently been
approved. It contains recommendations for transport project investments, with
a total cost estimated at $362 million, including highway reconstruction,
strengthening of maintenance capacity and improvement of the feeder road
network; Haina port construction and expansion (breakwater) of Puerto Plata;
and purchase of aircraft for the Dominican flag carrier (Dominicana de Avia-
cion). This investment plan is now under revision to include urgent invest-
ments needed for hurricane reconstruction. In addition to the 150 km of
emergency road reconstruction included in the proposed project, other urgent
investments for roads, bridges and rural roads would be included.
The Highway Subsector
42.       The basic road network consists of three trunk highways radiating
from Santo Domingo: the Duarte Highway to the north (263 km), the Sanchez
Highway to the west (193 km) and the Mella Highway to the east (75 km).
The size of the national system is adequate for the present level of economic
activity, and construction of additional highways is therefore not of high
priority. However, the condition of the network is not satisfactory. Some
2,000 km or 45 percent of the paved roads have reached a degree of obsoles-
cence and deteriorated to the point where preventive maintenance is no longer
meaningful. Such roads need reconstruction/rehabilitation on the basis of
full engineering studies and modern pavement design. This situation has been
exacerbated by damages to the road network caused by Hurricanes David and
Frederick, particularly in the northwest and south. Emergency road recon-
struction is essential to the transport of produce to urban areas for domestic
consumption and for export.
43.       The need to improve road maintenance has been recognized as one
of the major requirements in the highway subsector. The present administra-
tion declared this to be one of its high priority objectives. The Bank has
supported since 1977 the initiation of a highway maintenance program. As a



- 14 -
result, the level of road maintenance has increased markedly while institu-
tionaL improvements have been achiieved.  The maintenance of the network
is now under the responsibility of a new Sub-Directorate of Maintenance
created within SEOPC as a result of the technical assistance provided under
the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. Also, a new Training
Section responsible for personnel training has been organized. At the same
time, the infrastructural support to carry out maintenance activities lias been
substantially improved. Continuation of the ongoing works is essential to
bring maintenance activities to a more adequate level, as planned in the Five
Year Maintenance Program for 1980-1984.
44.       Estimated contributions from road user charges (US$52.2 million p.a.)
have been substantially above totai highway expenditures. It is estimated
thiat, over the next years, proceeds from road user charges would be adequalte
to support planned expenditures for implementing the reconstruction and
maintenance programs as well as future outlays for construction.    The most
important revenue source is the motor fuel tax, which accounts for about 50
percent of the road user charges. The other two important revenue sources
are vehicle registration fees and import duties on vehicles.
45.        Future economic growth of the country depends upon facilitating
access to arable areas in order to increase agricultural production.    The need
to improve and expand the feeder roads system has been recognized by Lie
Government.  The General Directorate of Feeder Roads of SEOPC was given more
authority in the area of feeder roads.   It has two projects currently under
preparation which would be financecd by IDB and by USAID. Given this rela-
tively strong external support for construction of feeder roads, the role
of the Bank should be to develop planning and construction methods and to
test the potential of labor-based Lechnologies, which appear prima facie to
be suitable in the context of high levels of unemployment.
Road Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
46.       About one half of the principal products in the country and almost
all passengers are carried by road. This is reflected in the relatively hligh
traffic density which shows that some 10 percent of the nationlal network
carries over 3,000 vehicles per day and about 35 percent carries over 1,000
vehicles per day. Vehicle registration, which between 1967 and 1974 grew by
14 percent, has slowed to 9 percent since 1975.   The composition of the
vehicle fleet is 64 percent passenger cars, 34 percent trucks and 2 percent
buses. About 3X) percent of passeniger cars perform public services anld about
63 percent of all trucks are of a pickup type. About 60 percent of the whlole
fleet is registered in the cities of Santo Domingo and Santiago.
The Road Transport Industry
47.       Thie trucking industry is divided into a large number of single-
vehicle owners.   These account for 98 percent of the medium and heavy trucking
fleet, which totals 17,000 units. There are five multi-vehicle companies
with six to 40 vehicles. Single-vehicle owners transport products from rural
areas to cities, and multi-vehicle companies provide intercity transport.



- 15 -
Rates and tariffs are regulated by SEOPC's General Directorate of Transporta-
tion. In practice, however, the enforcement of tariff regulation is lax,
and charges are about 25 percent higher than official ones. Single-vehicle
owners, who are generally ready to operate with low profit margins, have
created a highly competitive environment.
Vehicle Weight and Dimension Regulations
48.       Three weighing stations were installed by SEOPC in 1972 and two
are under construction. When all the weighing stations become operational,
it will be possible to monitor the majority of trucks in the country for
weight control. At present, trucks are inspected for compliance of weight
regulations, but not for axle load or vehicle dimensions, in the absence
of a clearly defined axle load and vehicle dimension policy. To remedy
this, a covenant was included in Loan Agreement No. 1316T-DO which stipulates
that the Government would, by December 31, 1976, enact regulations defining
maximum vehicle axle loads and dimensions. This, however, was not done because
the Government felt it needed additional time to carry out a comprehensive
study on vehicle axle loads and dimensions. SEOPC has undertaken the prepara-
tion of a comprehensive study of vehicle axle loads and dimensions, with
financing from IDB, that is expected to be completed by December 1980.
To ensure timely government action, a detailed timetable has been agreed
with the Government under the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project for completion of the study and subsequent enactment of vehicle
axle load and dimension regulations.
Bank Role in the Highway Subsector
49.       The Bank's previous involvement in the highway subsector consists
of the provision of technical assistance as executing agency under the UNDP-
financed Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study (1973), and the First
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316T-DO, US$5.0 million,
August 1976), which, initiated highway reconstruction and maintenance programs.
The Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study provided the first highway
inventory and carried out the first systematic traffic data collection in the
Dominican Republic and was the first attempt to use economic evaluation for
the selection of projects and the formulation of a Road Rehabilitation
Program. In addition, it reviewed the need for workshops and workshop equip-
ment and tools and road maintenance equipment and parts, all of which served
as a base for the formulation of the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project.
50.       The Bank's First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project included
(a) the initiation of a highway maintenance program, including the purchase of
highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop rehabilitation, and
improvemnent of road maintenance procedures and planning; (b) the reconstruction
of a 19-km road section; and (c) technical assistance for the maintenance
program and consulting services for supervision of the road reconstrua:tion.
The limited objectives of the project were broadly achieved. The level of
road maintenance has increased markedly, and improvements in the methods of
design and supervision of road reconstruction works have been applied. At
the same time, the infrastructural support indispensable for successful
maintenance has been laid out: 18 new workshops have been built and equipped,



- 16 -
and a number of maintenance equipment units have been purchased to increase
the grossly inadequate existing fleet. The reconstruction of the 19-km Puente
Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road is scheduled for completion by the end of
1979; that is, with a 15 month delay resulting from the failure of the initial
contractor, and subsequent decision by SEOPC to complete the works by force
account.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       As described in Part III, the hurricanes that hit the Dominican
Republic recently have caused extensive damages to the economy of the country.
Damage to the road network was concentrated in the northwest and south, cutting
off important agricultural areas from urban and export markets. In particular,
two roads, connecting Cruce de Guayacanes and Santiago de la Cruz (85 km),
and Azua and Barahona (65 km), which had been identified by the Government
before the hurricanes as part of its 1982-1984 reconstruction program, were
partially washed away by extensive flooding.
52.       The northwestern and southwestern regions, which are the areas of
influence of the project's roads, are among the country's most depressed
areas. About 29 percent of the country's total population is concentrated
in these areas. Agriculture, mainly rice, peanuts, coffee, cocoa, and sugar,
is their main economic base, but production is still under rudimentary methods
which have resulted in low productivity and high unemployment. The Government's
hurricane reconstruction program includes a number of investments, aimed at
improving local conditions among which the proposed road reconstruction
project is of high priority.
The Project
53.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited the
Dominican Republic on September 9-14, 1979 and by a post-appraisal mission
of October 29 - November 7, 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington on
November 19-20, 1979. The delegation was headed by Mr. Arsenio Fernandez,
Under-Secretary of State of Public Works and Communications. The objective of
the project is to limit economic loss by restoring road facilities to areas
under agricultural production. The project would provide for reconstruction
of two primary roads totalling about 150 km which were in the path of the
hurricane: the 64 km Azua-Barahona road and the 86 km Cruce Guayacanes-
Santiago Rodriguez-Santiago de la Cruz road. These roads were already identi-
fied as in need of reconstruction prior to the hurricanes and were included in
the second phase (1982-84) of the road reconstruction program, whose first
phase is included under the Proposed Second Highway Project. In many instances,
the extensive flooding caused by the hurricanes washed away what was left of
the obsolete pavement and eroded embankments. The Government took immediate
steps for emergency repairs, which allow traffic flows to proceed normally.
However, these repairs are of a temporary nature, and would not stand the
torrential rains of these regions during the rainy season. The immediate
reconstruction to two-lane paved standards is therefore, urgent. The Project
would also finance the purchase of road construction equipment required
by SEOPC to carry out part of the project's civil works by force account.



- 17 -
54.       The Government, with SEOPC as the Executing Agency, plans to proceed
with the immediate reconstruction of the above roads to two-lane paved standards.
To expedite mobilization and start of construction, SEOPC would execute part
of the works by force account. Local contracting firms would execute most of
the works. To facilitate execution the works under the roads would be divided
into eleven sections.
55.       SEOPC is currently preparing final engineering design studies for
the roads included in the project which will, however, have to be revised
while works are in progress to reflect the effect of hurricane damages. SEOPC
will begin mobilization in December 1979 and plans to start works by early
1980 and to complete construction over 24 months. This timetable would permit
the revision of engineering design studies while works are in progress. The
design standards and the concept used for pavement selection are adequate, and
would follow the ones developed for similar works under the Second Highway
Maintenance and Reconstruction project.
56.       Some of the existing SEOPC equipment would be assigned to the Proj-
ect. In addition, SEOPC would need to acquire about US$1.5 million of equip-
ment to build up adequate capacity to carry out part of the works by force account.
Early availability of this equipment is essential. Therefore, SEOPC and the
Bank have agreed on a list of equipment to be procured on the basis of nego-
tiated contracts, when standardization and early delivery are important.
Annex IV details the equipment needed for the above purposes. The equipment
in question is of the same type as equipment needed for SEOPC's current
maintenance operations and would revert to this function when the project is
completed. SEOPC's equipment renewal program after 1982 would be adjusted
to  reflect    the availability of this equipment.
Project Management and Execution
57.       SEOPC would carry out two sections amounting to about 15 percent of
the project by force account. Local contractors would carry out the remaining
works. The proposed approach would allow SEOPC to start the works by early
1980. The alternative of using contractors on the basis of unit price contracts
for whole lots, as planned for similar works under the Second Highway Project,
would require prior completion of engineering and bidding and would not allow
the works to start before August-September 1980. Quick mobilization of SEOPC
forces on public roads would attest to the Government's concern and effec-
tiveness in facing the massive reconstruction task ahead. The latter element
is important since it would maintain a high level of commitment to the success
of the program.
58.       The proposed arrangements for project implementation would include
adequate safeguards to ensure effective construction management and proper
engineering and supervision. SEOPC would entrust overall responsibility
for the implementation of the project to a special Construction Management
Unit (CMU) established for the purpose within SEOPC.    The CMU would be headed
by a Dominican Director and by an expatriate engineer with extensive experience
in construction management, who would act as Co-Director. The qualifications
and experience of the Director and Co-Director would have to be acceptable to
the Bank. In addition, the CMU would be staffed with a public accountant or



- 18 -
economist with experience in cost accounting to record operation costs, includ-
ing the cost of works by contractors, and two experienced civil engineers to
direct force account work. The unit is expected to be fully staffed by April
1, 1980. SEOPC would establish a separate account for the operational expendi-
tures of the CMU, with an initial deposit of $75,000. The Bank would reimburse
SEOPC 30 percent of total operating expenditures of the CMU. Condition of dis-
bursement would be that such disbursements do not exceed, at any given time,
2 percent of disbursements for civil works. Specialized consultants would be
retained by SEOPC under the authority of the CMU to update engineering, super-
vise execution and monitor costs. They would also certify cost accounts for
the purpose of loan disbursements. The establishment of the Units the hiring
of its Co-Director, and the employment of the consultants to update engineering,
supervision and monitor costs would be conditions for disbursement on the civil
works (Sections 3.02 and 3.04 of, and Schedule 1 and 5, to the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       To prevent further inflation of SEOPC's payroll, the Bank has obtained
assurances that (i) SEOPC would endeavor to assign to the Project qualified man-
power already on its payroll; and (ii) that employment of additional manpower
for the purpose of the project would be on terms limited to the execution of the
project work (Sections 3.01 and 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
60.       SEOPC's construction and equipment procurement programs describing
the parts of the works to be carried out by force account and through contracts,
and the related implementation schedule have been agreed upon. Contracts for
civil works not carried out by force account, would be procured under competi-
tive bidding in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. In order to speed up the procurement procedures, the contracts would be
based on the nominal quantities of work, particularly in road sections where
changes in engineering design are considered necessary. In order to allow
early start of works SEOPC would, until March 1, 1980, have the option of
awarding contracts to local firms through simplified procedures after seeking
proposals from at least three established contractors. The award proposals
and the draft contracts would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. In
order to expedite purchase and in the interest of standardization with exist-
ing equipment, SEOPC would procure the equipment needed at the start of
the works through comparative shopping among established suppliers including
at least all those who bid in 1977 for the equipment procurement program
under the First Highway Maintenance Project. The award recommendations and
the draft contracts would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
A delivery period of a maximum of three months would be mandated. This
procedure would apply to equipment to be purchased before March 1, 1980.
Equipment purchased after that date would be procured through Internatioaal
Competitive Bidding, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Lots with an esti-
mated cost of less than US$50,000 for a total value estimated not to exceed
US$200,000 would, however, be procured through other procedures acceptable to
the Bank (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
61.       The total project cost is estimated at US$38.8 million (excluding
import and sales taxes), of which US$25 million, or 65 percent of total costs,
represent foreign exchange requirements. The baseline costs amount to US$30.5
million on the basis of September 1979 prices. Physical and price contingencies



- 19 -
amount to US$3.0 million and US$5.3, respectively. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 10 percent and price contingencies at 16 percent. The
project would require about 300 man-months of specialized se:vices, at an
estimated average cost of about US$4,000 per month. Individtal rates range
from US$10,000 for an experienced expatriate construction manager to US$2,300
for local engineers and technicians.
62.       The proposed loan of US$25 million would finance the foreign exchangv
cost of the project. The Government would finance US$13.8 million, equivalent
to 100 percent of local costs.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements would be based on 65 percent of total costs for civil
works and for supervision consultants; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment and advisory services to the CMU; 95 percent of local
expenditures for imported equipment procured locally; and 30 percent of total
costs for operating expenditures for the CMU. In order to ensure the timely
availability of resources, SEOPC would establish a revolving fund to finance
project civil works. The Revolving Fund would receive an initial Government
deposit equivalent to US$1.2 million and US$2.2 million from the proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan. Additional withdrawals of Bank loan proceeds would
be made to reimburse SEOPC for eligible expenditures charged against the
Revolving Fund (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements woulc
be made against normal documentation, except for disbursements for constructior
works carried out by force account and operational expenditures by the CMU, which
would be made against statements of costs, verified by SEOPC. Supporting docurun-
tation would be retained in SEOPC for post review by Bank supervision missions.
The project cost accounts, which would be recorded by the CMU, the separate account
for the CMU's operational expenditures and the revolving fun' would be audited by
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.03 of th- draft
Loan Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
64.       It is recommended that up to US$2.5 million of the proposed loan
amount be available to provide for retroactive financing of consultant cost,
equipment and force account work, carried out after November 1, 1979.
Project Risks
65.       The project entails above-average risk inasmuch as SEOPC's capacity
could be strained by the additional demands resulting from the reconstruction
task. However, the risk of serious delays and inadequate project management
and funding has been reduced by the establishment of the construction manage-
ment- unit with high level expatriate expertise and the institution of a
special revolving fund.



- 20 -
Economic Assessment
66.        Because of the emergency nature of the project, no detailed economic
evaluation has been possible. The roads included in this project are critical
elements of the basic road network with an estimated traffic ranging from 300
to 470 vehicles per day, whiclh is expected to increase to 2,000-2,700 vehicles
per day over a 20 year period. They had been included in the Government's
1982-1984 road reconstruction program before the hurricanes. The 1977 identi-
fication survey carried out as a basis to prepare SEOPC's reconstrlltion/
rehabilitation program showed benefit/cost ratios above 3.0 for botlh project
roads using a discount factor of 12 percent. Economic feasibility studies
conducted in 1978-79 for the preparation of the road reconstruction component
of the Second Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction Project broadly confirmed
the estimates developed under the above identification survey. The urgency of
the works has increased because of additional restrictions on serviceability
resulLing from hurricane damage.    From a longer term perspective, the roads
should be considered an important component of an investment package which will
result in an increase in production and income in the depressed northwest(rti
and southern parts of the country, and thus contribute to the economic develop-
ment of the Dominican Republic.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the Bank and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions for disbursement of civil works would be the estab-
lishment of the Construction Management Unit, hiring of its Co-Director and
of a consulting firm for supervision of construction works. Co,ilition of
disbursement of operating costs of the CMU would be that said disbursements
do not exceed, at any given time, two percent of disbursements for civil
works.
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply witlh the articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamar;a
President
Attachments
November 29, 1979



- 21 -                                           ANNEX I
Page    1  of
TABLE 3A
DOWINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL. :NDTCATORS 0A.A SHEET
DOMINCAN I-PtTBIC  RFERENCE a~'VCPS (ADJUSTED Al'E.GEIGS
-LVD AREA (-HOUSAIrD SO. r .)00NICAN RJPUlLIC                          - Vs,   C RECN. ES--.A-  -
-OIAL            .a.;                                              SAr?I       s AJE  N'EX. H
AGRICULTURAL     24.7                             .4OST &ECTNT   CEOCLPHNIC    YCOFM      LYICOY
1960 /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    REGION /c  CROUP /d    CROUP /e
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)               240.0      390.0    910.0         1124.4     1097.7     1942.6
ENERCY CONS1OTION PER CAPI-A
(EILOCR,V.S OF cOAL soUIvALZEt)  157.0      321.0    653.0          943.1     730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STAIST!CS
POPULATION, MID-YEA?. (Mi'LLINS)   5.0        4.1      5.0
UAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3       39.8     45.9           59.3      49.0        51.2
POP7LATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2oCO (miu.oNs)                    9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    15.0
UAR STATIONAMY POPULATION IS LEACRZD               2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. )DI.                    63.0       83.0     103.0          23.5      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND  166.0      174.0    204.0           80.5      140.7      100.5
POPULATION ACE STILOCTU.E (PERCENT)
0-14 rRS.                       46.8       48.2     47.0           40.9      41.3        35.6
15-64 rRs.                       50.3       49.1     50.0           54.4      55.3        56.3
65 TRS. A"D ABOVE                 2.9        2.7      3.0            3.9       3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PE2CEYT)
TOTAL                            3.6        2.9      2.9            2.4        2.4        1.7
URLAN                            6.1        5.8      5.4            3.7       4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER -HOUSAND)   50.0       45.0     37.0           32.J      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (?ER THOUSAND)   16.0       12.0      9.0            8.5       9.2         9.1
CROSS R9?RODUC-:ON RATE             ..        3.5      3.4            2.4       2.2         1.8
rAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    ..        17.2     61.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOEN)  ..          ..     30.3           17.7      34.7.
FOOD AND NUTRI7ON
LNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       121.3      101.0     89.0           99.4      104.4      102.0
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEZT OF
REQUIREMrENTS)                92.0       88.0     98.0          107.0      105.0      120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        46.0       50.0     45.4           60.4      64.4        80.9
OF 67HICH AN11NAL AND PULSE     ..       29.0     23.3           28.3       23.5       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MRDTALITY RATE   23.0       15.0     10.0            6.7       8.6         5.1
HEALTH    4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)  51.0       57.0     60.0           63.6      60.2        65.6
INFANT 4ORTALITT RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           .-       96.0/f     *-           76.1      46.7        *5.5
ACCZSS T0 SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULA-ION)
TOTAL                             ..       37.0     55.0           63.4      60.6        69.4
URBAN                             ..       72.70    88.0           79.5      75.7        85.1
RURAL                             ..       14.0     27.0           38.6      40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       58.0     42.0           58.S      46.0        70.1
URBAN                             ..       63.0     74.0           77.8      46.0        88.3
RURAL                             ..       54.0     16.0           24.5      22.5        33.2
POPCULATION PER PHTSICIAN          ..      2100.0   1870.0Li       1841.9     2262.4     1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      ..      3930.0   1330.0/1        933.7     1195.4      765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          400.0      350.0     350.0/h       563.4     i53.4       197.6
UR8AN                             ..      150.0    220.0          279.4      253.1      260.2
RURAL                             ..     2680.0/h  3580.0/h       1140.9    2732.4     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..          ..     30.0/h         25.7       22.1       17.3
HOUSING
AVERACZ SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.0        5.3                     5.0        5.         4.7
URBAN                            4.8        5.2       ..            4.8        5.2        4.4
RUR.%L                           5.1        5.4                     5.3        5.4        5.1
AVEXAGE I.MBER OF PERS0NS PER ROOM
-OTAL                            2.0         ..       ..            1.3        1.9        1.1
URBAS                            1.6         ..       ..            1.3        1.6        1.2
RLBAL                            2.2         ..       ..            1.5       2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO LECTRICTY (PERCENT
Of 0VELLtNCS)
TOTAL                           20.0         ..       ..           5A.3       50.0       66.0
URBAN                           57.7         ..       ..           80.1       71.7       85.1
URAV"                            3.0         ..       ..           14.2       17.3



-   22   -                                   A:;JEX    I
Page 2 of 5
.AIul! 34
-A]!:! )&~~~~~~A-
DOMIN:SK ?IPUBL:C -     :   :   BS-AI$00 - :AZASC-::
SAME        SAO 4, Z
MS5T UC'C       CZCCRxApdlC    i:r _      L iCot_
1960 /b     1970 lb !STLA7E 1b       MCXI   'c   GROS'P /d   CROU1 /I
EDCCA::DN
tIM,Y:       IAL                  98.0       101.0     110.0           107.3      102.5       101.7
YALE                  9.0       101.0     109.0           101.1       101.6      110.0
rEKAL!               98.0       102.3     11.0           107.6       97.1        92.6
SECoNDALY:   '0'A                  7.0        19.0      14.0            40.5       33.5        51.2
ALzE                  7.0        19.0      24.0            40.4       36..        56..
Mki.z                 7.0        19.0      24.0            39.0       30.7        43.7
VOCCATIONAL ENPOL. 6: O StCONDAAY)   .          1.0       !.0             i8.5       1:.5       18.3
PR lMSR Y                         58.0        5k.0        ..            37.1       35.8        27.1
SQCOhODA.Y                        16.0        24.0        ..            17.9       U2.9        25.3
Ak.'L: L-FPACY ILA5t (P=nC!.)       64.5        67.2      67.0             77.4      MA.0         86.1
PASSENC!Rk CARS MER-,KOUSAND
POPVLAlON                         4.0        10.0      16.0            29.1       13.5        53..
RADIO LSCZ1IVES Pt 'MhOLSAND
POp_7-A ON                        34.0        36.0      40.0           172.1      :22.7       Z.25.9
TV RZCtIVtXS PI THOUSAND
PC VLACION                         6.0        2 3.0     3i.0            67.9       36.3       L02.6
.YEV'S?A2P C!DA3.T ZtNtRAL
DrCELS" ) CUpkC?' A:l1ON PER
SOUSAI   POPT9A0..COS               27.0        36.0      42.0            76.1       40.0         78.5
COnEKA ANNUAL A ;TNDACE PER CAPITA   2.0         1.2        ..             4.2         5.7         3.6
LABOF FOF;C--
=-AL WOiL !OPCE C'O.USANDSI        820.0      1100.0    120O.0
FE?9ALE (?LRCES)                  10.5        11.2      11.9            21.5       _2.0        2'.5
AQSCf   ;.Vt S (? atC             66.4        61.2      58.0             30.2       43.5        216.9
L'DUSRY (PERCEC1                  12.2        14.0      16.0            23.8       2L.S        30.6
PARTIC'PATION XA-. Q RFLE=r)
28.6        26.8      25.5            30.9       33.5        33.6
'IA't                               50.4 4S.1             '6.3             47.3       48.0        $1.3
rENA!                                S6.1        6.1        6.3            :3.3       16.8        16.3
EONOH1I  DE?ELDEYCY XA.flO            2.0         2.1       2.3              1.5        1.6         1.3
PERCZN7 OC PRIVA-E IS COH
R_ CE 1t D S Y
HNCi,s7 5 ?nRCaN: Or SOUSEROLDS      .        26.3/i    ;S-;            23.7       20.6
Elsstn; PE0CEs-. OF aoCuSncLs       ..        5_. 37.   52.9           M5.7         5'. 1       57-6
LWNRS. 20 ?PECES- OF rCH.SRMOLDS    ..         4.3/i     5.0             2.9        3.9          3.4
.oWt.S 40 PEiRES- OF 9CtSEHOLDS     ..        12.4 i    14.0             9.9        12.o        11.0
!QVER-n  'CE   CRCL'PS
L5S'1M.C1D3 AASC2_: 'OVnL. fICOM
LEVEL (CSS ?On ZP:tA)
URBA}                               ..          ..         ..           265.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      239.            185.1      183.3
EST'tAh:S PZ' AT1,  P3%fl! 1COz
UVEL (USS ?tR CAPITA)
URLAN                               ..          ..      270.0           396.3       82. 5      550.0
1RUAL                               ..          ..      2SO.0          306.1       248.9       403..
tS-::-AD 20DU DS srQo       RZSOLC-E
POVER:? ;XCC2v '0tVE11 2'S-
U5A.i8                              ..           .       2L.0            35.2       20.5
RLELA_                              ..          ..         ..           '6.6       35. 3
Not epLlcbla.
Ia    The #djudced group aversges for ech t,dtcetor are soruiati-n-secgoad geosetrtc Soemas   esclootLt  'se Extrete
values of 'he  ndlcetor -no  ht moet aopulaced zouer    , Ln each group.  Coverage of couarte- a=ngz t.
1nnLctors *e.nds oo avn.61 L:v of aec1 ad is not uailor,.
ib   CrIes, OtrerIee flared, Dats !or '960 re'sr tO ivy '*sr 5eresat 19'9 nd 196D; for '970   t:*eea   i9z9
wnd 1971; and jor  on0: Recent !ee:taa , oeceeo 1974 n4 1977.
c  Lst:n AxtrIca i Ctr:beAt;     5   .nrerMeoectae .ioade 'zco. (iS551-11'! yI capL:. .97t';    a   o Pe r
'.:croc   e UUi!3n-:500 per capIta. 1976);   'I   1965-70 aferege;   LI  19273;   b   ovemsonc cts,A-
ILsnenft 3 n. a    ': Sent, Ooeingo. uroco.
Most Recent  itnLace 2* CXP 7*r ctpLtt tI for 1976.
August, ;929



-23-                                       ~~~~~~ANNEX I
SDIIS7IS OF SOCIAL IDCT                                                     Page     3   of    5
Notes: Although the data r. rw  f-o  ore generally Judged the mast wathoritattee and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be Interns-
i1i~ly  ompaabl beauseof he ash  f sandadnd dfInIion  an  conpts useed by different countries in collecting the data. The date r,nntees
usfu to describe ordere of eagitudeidct trns,ad charateri        senaten mjor differnce  betwen coutrie..
The adjusted s,-non . s-rgee for each Indicatsr are PsPslatisn-'eighted geometric means, e-eludie.g the enreve,vle,o J theidotradtems  ouae
noury n eah goup.Dieto lash of data, group averages of all indicators for Capital Supu8 i lnresai  f   indIcators ofAces no. Aste enderets
ospunal, housIg, Iscom  Distribution and Poverty for other coutry groups are pouainwihe    emti     en   ithout e..lusios of the sotrene 1.. vles a
theos pouaedcutry. Sinc the covrage ofcunt,,rieaong the indicators depend an avallbillte of data and is notunde.ctinos het b            ser-ciced
in relsttingsoceenofon_ldiostre    o  nohe.r. Ths   vcgeaemel         sfulasaYr-iantione of "esected' -alies ehes. o   parting the onions ofon
indicator at n time -ng the country and reference groupn.
LAIS AREA (th-uand eqon.)                                                  Assess to dUcreta Dipsa(pretopcslio)-onluis,ndfrl-
otl-Total curfane area coeprising land area and Ialand eaters.Nubro pepe(totl                  ra,adrrl         evdb     ort    ipsla
Agricultura - Wont recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily    percentages of their respective popdltions. Zocreta disposal say icciude
or permusetly for copny, pastures, macbt and kithe- garden hr to          the collection and disposal, wi th er wIthout treatment, of huma  -.cte
IIe faflo.                                                                and waste-wter by eate-horn  syste   or the use of pit priv,ies and -.mula
Installations.
GNP SRi~PITTSAY2!) - INP per capita coti-t-esat curret inarket prices,      Pt ltin          iim-Popasltims divided hy number of practicing physicians
sane conrin mthod -s World Bank Atlas (1976-78 biasis);                 rl   fp       ed.    oe   tw   ..ly1     1
1960, 1970, -d 1978 d.t..                                    X17~~~Poosltlo nc Nursing Person - Population divided by n..nber of pracic ing; nal
1055555YC2SUMP0TIOS PERI CAPITA - Asnoal consumption of cosseercia.1 entergy  an Ieml graduate nurses, practical nurses, and assistantnus.
(   j0  n  ignit  p     trln  natura gas and hydro-, onlea and ge-   Ponulatu per Hsilta Ned - to.Italubn    n   ua npsnio(oa,ub
thermael elc.tricityp) be kilugren  of coal equivalet per capita; 19n60aldvdd                yterrepcie         ebre hopitlbesaiales
1970, and 1976 data,                                                        Public end private general and specialioed hoetpita1 and rehabilitation set_r.
Hospitals are establishmets permaently staffed by at least one ph'ysicisen.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                              Establisheents providing principally custodial care are non Included. Ihur.I
To tal Ppuflation, Mid-Se- arillion) - As of July 1; 155*5, 1970, and       hospitals, hosevr, Include health and medical cent-er not permnetly otnited
1977 dana.                                                                by a physicia  (bet by a medi;a1 assistant,tnre,- dof,  et.)oh offer
Orbs, euain(eon         fttl - satin of urban to total population;          in-pati-et ascendatioe and provide  limied. range  f    .die fec.it.
dfeet" d fintoe fuba    rn ms    fec    oparbility of data         Admsin      r HoeIta  Ned - TotaLI number of adalaiose. to or diecb-rv  C
ano cutre; i'60, 1970, and 1975 date.             .                     tale   e Sit t e number of bed,.
Peculation Prejeotlone n       ti2 ~iZt.. ae ..d                  ourm
PPocolatic in year 220- Corec dpopulatio  piroetin  ace based no      ACOtStIUC                                                bll  -     -11
1175 tcta. population byae In se ad hIr motlity and fertility         Averag Sine of Houeod(esn-e         oshl)-ttl         ,he   n   ua 
rates  Projection  _ pr tero fo r _ortelity rates comprise of three     A household comi" s f  group of in-viu,    wh  ha    vs   quarters anc
icoel aesnioglife eopctany et birtt, incr,easin  ith coutrys.      their main  eas  A hoarder or lodger may or nay not tc i-co-d i  h
prcaita    oos level, and femle life espectano  tabbIsigat             househMold fnrstati stical Puorposea.
77.5 years. Th, e prsetrs for fertility rate alon hnoe threelees      Araenmrofpsnscrom-ttl,ub,adrrl - Average -univ
enoigdo Inei ctility -ovrding to mons- level ad past            of persons Per eer isnl uban, andrurl occupied ...cvi:tonl   oll,.
faiy ilasuiingprorac.Each coutry is thes assignedon of these            rpecti-ely. L-1e1inga encluds nun-p.rmannt strutures aodou_-o'i-".:or.
elseIcombinetio.no of -0rtslity aco fertility trends for yr7oinA...s. tc Eletrici te pretoyslig)-tnlubn and cocc. 
Otnluvc-;noplator  ine tation...y population there is no groth     total, urban, and7ruiral d-ellings respectively.
obo  th titb aneic qual hr thc death rats, and also the age
otru tore  -ialno.snan.TInoacivdnlafter fertility rates             EiXEATiION
-eline to the replacenet 1eel o"f ontees ceproyductiss rste, fle      Ad ue_ted Enrollment Ratios
-no  ceserti on of come  eplace  itself eseot ly.' The stationary pupa-  Primary school - tta  ml andfeal - Sense btel., male an    - eonr e-ovl-
"Laioc ol- -a etiisated vs the:' beo  of the projected characteristics    ceot of all ages at theprerylee as p-eretagen of respectLive Priny
of the popolatuo  is the yeer 20000 and the rate of decitne of fertility  school-age populmtiens; sos-willy Inc ludes chiidre  aged C--II yctr ut.
rete to epacmet levl                                                     adjuted foe different leegtbs of. primary educatioc; orI unte  t!
One ntlotsr .. opuieti-sin reached - The year he- stationary pupulati.o  universal edu'caios er1sr-iet cay.e.ced 100 per 1cn  ino  se  uIls
vic e, ban    -ehreobe.                                                   arebelo. or ebve the official school age.
_:ionio  soly                                                         S ec.ndry echo' 1 -_total, cae and female - Computesta- -~1
'co-; ho. k - Oud-yea pcpu.i-oc  pre II05- silo-t-r (100 hectaces) of       edsoeti. on equires at leat four yearn of approo- Iin isy :tu  lv
total  re                                                                 pr-oIues generalcct1  ni  or teacher training i-nlt-lun'- p:j.tlr
P'er nsqis. griv-IturI tas - Cosputr  so ab-c- for agricultural land        usualily of 12 to 17 years of age; oresod   -- oro -v p,'Itca'ly
on ly.                                                                    ecluded.
uolaitiooelecutr.s-nrc-ot     - Children I0-1b year-.), corin-ae-          ostio-l s-rcltmet (orc-t uS secoodi')-    Vr-:vli:,tto          r w,
~0        zI                      asd ovr) no p-roetages of msid-yar       t,chncl Indusral r'     othe  rgee      o  operate- i-dvpsr-vtt yca
popisLatioot l1-ul 1970, and 1977 deta.                                     de parteenta of senundary institutions.
I'uvulctioe IOrt  aopret       total - Annual se-nh eaten of total mid-     Pes-ece     ato    oiayad secodar       - Otal  tuseot   -rio I'ii
yerPopIntio- for 1950-o0, 1963-70, ad17-77.                                 primacy no  seondaryivls divided by nsuiero vi Lencher Io. th,,  u:
pvpleio Iooh hate ) porevt) - urb an - Annua growth rates of urban       poodig level.
P.poaton   fr 1950-63, 1903-71,, and1970-75.                              Adult litera-y rate (cercent) - Literate aduit labSLl, to cons-and -citt:t
Cucbirth Rnte Irye tho-oand) - Annual lie irth ,u  e thousand of ado-      aperootagc of total adlt poslatinic sec.o1 cea  Mad  vr
year ppulotiu- 19.1,0 1970, and 1977 onto.
fCodc Icath Hst- (ocr thoe-,,) - Ans-al dontho per th-uvac  vi si-y-nr  CONSUKSI5O'It
popuatin: 1.151970. do 11)77 sam.                                   Psotcce Cur (pee tonuoss pclt-n) - Panseegeoa, --e-prine c.*nr-1
trou Peovoovio  ait . -   .-rae uIv, of -ou,oter s,:',  oti-ser        orating leon than eight persoso roc,d-o anu      h-r.  on-oc vt
_n_o ora     oprdoisoe,_: i:eneor               prI caI                   ch eboicle
spcPo  etlity   trate: uu.1a1y rie-y-ar -oe-gs- ending In 10010,      hadoc hRceiv-r (nor thouans_ poonltion) - All typen 'C ceco:ver  I,r-
I01 cd17.broadcas.ts to jjoera pulic poe thsado peuoioc                                                                      eosdsoc
F-nlty iba-vioc   - docnn hosn-l (bos:       Annual numbe r                  -ievr-e- in coutrie- and in year sh- reitai.    f rash -.too    ti.
oo-etorr :t birth-control droic- nocer n-clo-  ,I catios ..Iniol ly       offeot; data for recen.t year smy not be -opn-oiicnc 
Iaol,- PeirI aoished lic-oing.
Ianiis lor.nL; - hove:, (Pvrcrvt up marrie -care  - Percentage of nessried  TV 8-civera (Per thounans ocoulatioc  -TV recior- ti  ens' 'ri.,:i
to all emer-rus.... is shie ace group.                                    ad in years che. registretion of TV nt  n  ionffct
Fist 0101 ltffKlTlCN                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Nenscanr Ciroulatiohn per thousand n~nnbn  bn  o:veo-:nlo
~~('C ANL: HUT-'~~~~~~~~~~~~,Tl~f daiy                                 re.eral.t.eret neonpaper * deflee  anaprtdiciliiv
""'TS'lTW'Touvvuonin pr Icite lOc.7i~00)  ineo o peronpteIdvotd primarily to recording general neon. ti   onive.o i.ub
Tsdonal Tor,ve:vtiv  o all oo  ooosi ditien. Pc'1,u00 h on ed:oo lrde need. coef5tper   tlatfu       beae
L0*vsraeinoen of ane)obc       c cii     ndcsi estrient             sod  urn   rtheyer,Ttldigamssosi           o  -iv oonc   to-r. ,  tod-
* o.,,. ::oti'ec no: t-. screneclo-ics.tOggtvprdcti. 1.d ofeahconny uits.I
loiaouod anta    Yoera pbodcer prdic oerigbtng.od
oxporto  and ohengoc to usoob. Hen ouppicod cols  nie  ed,se  Cin- cAion- oAttried-reHn  t cmarb
Iuniin0C -tIi ood pcg-veoc and ItuoIn    isend ton   eqie h!'pv9                  Fei loodrP, feces as pcetag .Vcittiseire
e-eto ouc eoti-at, --g pAr aCd.on plyinicoinrtfr omlclue                          eret tao        ocei    amn,frety        utn    n
neote st bruncliuld leon 1.                                  hlIhct,   - c.it.  t. rici7.ter and.ga en pe cnagey oftota  p-ce foce
I.e cpitasupil if rotei igrno co day --i protoincetit be:it 1-re  4atlnti           Idat  (pecet) -ctotal, mal  sod eInl .-d- Leriiats:o
capta  etnupiyof vv v.ckda. Ne,t  topply- offod~ in. delied, anntvtertsaccnptdadoal                    ne   e fol     o     sr   oto
alovit heqoiiment foroal cnuittrlec encableinhe  y51 pii rovtide fo.r-a  ~ena.~targ-softntl eni and femal.re po pulaetge of al afro ceo;-ectc-y
siieo  d:.uc   b.-olgb of total pr-tin pe  day anISgeso       ~     S 1970,and 1975      r dot:. Thne r f.Ings prbo,  ties raeh cfctitg s
antialt and:polo   onicc vid bict10grin-t  l be animal pro htein        age-segs struceture of- thpopu1lation anf on  inrred  0lo olae
gr cot. of y 01.1 Ptreti  Mss.vraefeth,ol p       ropose)by PA       fronein -e-tode'cy-Satin  - Ptio rf polatlo  ord-er  _-Itpnd:to: yore
ivtyTrd  I.l ofnf::d p-evdy.                                     Patlto  bo ins-e i age grou    Iofl-h1yar.I
lecesita . tl   uppfn atis_SaNdt -pyiofo-d'otin eupply of forde                         _,Rl                 1e    df      11      oc
MI      nd (re  S-i lAaI.,   iitv I pv tihouvandgr-  Annuld deethis Peroteiond  Pec-en   -taguorevt' oncome pp.ethin. cahad b. ind) t-hcece A p cosoto
:Thag  iteup  r.l yco-,to chlero Lb  io thi note. cop;fc touslprtdeve-d  r5 percent,ichs 20. peoI,poet2         ecnt    o   ors    .  e
gplenovi c Int dcrcl.vdfe   life tpoilbycoA -                          fl   I hueolds -I   lt.-~t.1 1,lt.            ne   
l..At'cb cTP      W1dFo                                                 P700-0P ThROS     inag5g0517174 ...
Liebpetnoasbrh cnr        -.1 -d r   ,- sobr 1:' yearso lifel         buiu- Acit       ovrylcos'bvlfoodc als              ubne-h .a 
ce--id a ,.I:19,170es17. tg          dotsd.                              AbOME t poverty1incmlelIattInoerelht:sita
ChvitoSfld     tcprcn       fopioi - , IIntel urban, nonrua th.-          ttnd  P  srctnt ePoverty scone ievn (0h per caita) - uci-oad  ruralch
oer score sup4 lY io-od treateld- ourno cetera   or anrsedbtpersona              rincno he eutry poorhast    Perentis eend f.rom.  LOc cocc bro
uiioe.nt,Ed sine, ouc sot- from prote cted,.                           ofeoo  prno   hith.adjutetfrhge  otoflvn  subnaer
and acolory silo h anyrreeeo.e - . their, n ooeotvepopleton . In    intienIc Peculatio P-eloc Aslute  ~ Povert incom -iteel  - e1 -.uis, no.!
00  eesirono hus et7.l roodcd. a being sithinn rea1nonebie.,ini-
cte. it Klthat 'Cone. Ip-  rura ...e..  reonable4th  o incma t nouldc,nrtsoplyq., itp.~c...t.                        -
-vr ohstoue      -- o  melir, ofthe brshodd nthaetosedd                                                    enoi adIcilPastionv
oo;cp i.ct      :r   fth   o   sfthn     h   aiy'sne       ed                                          onecAeyneadPeetonleate
A-  t, ~.ft W.t,r  lrl. :nd rurl             Ezti-t~dP'l.ti- P.   ty Inc.-   -#l (US4 P     cs,,piAugust - 1979



-     -                             Aia;EX I
ECONOMIC IrHDICATORS                        Page 4 of 5
GROSS NATIOAkL PPODUCT III 1978                               ANNUAL RATE OF GOTO'Fi (%T constant nric-s)
us$ i.an.  %              1960-68      1968-74     197L-73
G:IP at Market Prices                 4,887.0   100.0             3.7          10.5        5.0
Gross Domestic Investment             1,105.8    22.6             7.1         18.5         4.8
Gross National Saving                   728.5    14.9           -11.5          32.2        9.9
Current Acco'nt Bolance                -377.3    -7.8
Exports of Goods, ITFS                  825.7    16.9           - 1.2          12.4        4.0
Impcrts of Goods, NFS                -1,219.5   -25.0            10.7         10.9       -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE A'1D
FDUC:IV2TY I:: 1?77
Value Added          Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US5 lan.   %         Mln.               US$
Agriculture                             931.2  20.9
Industrj                              1,305.0  28.2
Services                              2,427.1  52.0
Unallocated                            ._   _
Total/Average                       4,663.3 100.0
GOVFRII!P'.' FINANCE
General Government             Centra] Governrent
(XDS i-ar.. j    of GDP   (    R    _ .^f 
1978      1978   1977-78       19780     1978   1977-78
Current Receipts                        667.8     13.4      14.1       591.6     11.8     12.6
Current Expenditure                     482.3      9.6        2        416.6      8.3      7.9
Current Sxuolus                         185.5       3.7      4.9       175.0      3.5      4.7
Capital Ex-end-tures                    337.0 1/   6.7       6.8       294.1 1/   5.9      6.1
External Assistance (net)               104.2 -    2.1       1.2       100.7      2.0      1.1
M3EY, BCREDIT A:7D PRICES             1970     1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978o
(Million RD$ outstanding end period 
Money and Quasi Money                275.9    318.6   397.5   494.7   708.8   818.9   851.1   959.3   930.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector         192.2   221.1-   260.6   291.5   383.5   425.8   416.0   455.1   513.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector        180.1   216.8    282.1   385.6   577.8   685.0   788.9   851.4. 4 85.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP     18.6    18.9    19.6     19.3    23.4    21.1    21.2      2e.6  18.6
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 2/ 100.0    101.2   109.3    114.2   134.3   157.3   161.5     175.6 189.7
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 2/                  1.4    1.2     8.0      4.5    17.6    17.1     2.7       8.7   8.o
Bank Credit to Public sector          10.5    15.0    17.9     11.9    31.6    11.0    -2.3       9.4  12.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector         18.7    20.4     30.1    36.7    49.8    18.6    15.2       7.9   4.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the official exchange rate of RD$l.00=US$l.)0.
1/  Icl.   unallocated expenditLre.
2/ GDP deflator.
not available
not appl'icable



- 25 -
ATrNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TPADE PAY!17C'S A"D CAPITAL FLOWS
BALA:;LCE OF PAYVENTS                                       MERCHAIDISE E,PORTS
1976      1977      1978                                     Average 1976-78
(Millions US $)                                         US$ Million    _
Excorts of Goods, !1FS          840.4    917.9     825.7    Sugar and by-pro'ucts              248.6       34.3
Irnr-rts of G_ds, '7-3        -10        172.    -121       Ferronickel                         91.5       12.6
hesoirce Gap (eficf- = -)     - 270.0   -254.5    -393.0    Coffee                             110.3       15.2
Tobacco                             38.o        5.2
Interest r,   .er.ts, r.et      -43.5    -51.1     -71.5    Cocoa                               74.5       10.3
ot:-er faetor pavrenr.-s, net"/  -80.3   -72.3     -41.6    Bauxite                             20.2        2.8
;;e- transfers                  151.9    113.6     129.6    All other ccr=n,odities            141.0       19.6
aan_-c:- o-, GCrren:' :.ccu:t  -241.9   -264.3    -377.3        Total                          724.1      10-.0
Lirect Yc:i--n. Ir:e--ntert      60.0     45.9      40.0    ET'E-':AL DT-', DECS2E_R 31, 197Th 3/
Ne: Public :'T Forr;ving         79.0    104.8     165.9
Disburserents                (121.5)  (146.6)    (209.9)                                        .uS$ I-n
Amortization                 ( 42.5)   ( 41.8)   ( 44.0)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        764.9
Other ite:.s n.e.i.?./           9.7     185.2      76.2       Non-Guara-;teed Private Debt          N.A.
Ir.crease net in Fe---rves (+)  -43.2    71.6     -95.2      Total outstanding    Disbursed         N.A.
Gross Reserves (enr. year)      165.1    224.8     199.0     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978 3/
Net Reserves                    -11.4     60.2     -35.0                                             %
Fuel and Related --aterials                                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          10.2
Imports                       169.5    177.0     194.2       Non-Guararnteed Private Debt           N.A.
Exports                          -         -          -      l'otal outstanding  Disbursed          N. A.
PATE F EXCHANBE                                    IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Sett. 30.1979) (Vil'ion USV):
Throurh - 1971          Since - 1971                                                           IBRD      IDA
US ; 1.00 = RD _ 1.00   US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00                Outstanding & Disbursed           28.8      17.2
RD $ 1.00 = US S 1.00   RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00                Undisbursed                       49.6       4.9
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed     78.0       22.1
1/ Workers remittences included under net transfers.
2/ Includes private lon.-tern capital, other capital, and errors and cmissions.
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
,. not available



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of October 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                     Amount (Less cancellations)
Credit No.     Year    Borrower                Purpose          Bank     IDA     Undisb.
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                        25.0     9.1 1/       -
352 DO        1973   Dominican Republic       Irrigation          -    13.0        4.8
1051 DO        1974   Central Bank             Tourism          21.0       -       11.6
1142 DO        1975   Dominican Republic       Education         8.0                7.1
1316 DO        1976   Dominican Republic       Highways          5.0                0.8
1325 DO        1976   Dominican Republic       Population        5.0                2.4
1655 DO        1979   Dominican Republic       Irrigation       27.0               27.0
1760 DO        1979   State Sugar Council      Sugar            35.0               35.0
Total                                            126.0   22.1
of which has been repaid                       13.0       -
Total now outstanding 2/                         113.0   22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                       _       _
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/               113.0    22.1
Total Undisbursed                                83.9     4.8       88.7
1/   With exchange adjustment
2/   A US$25 million loan for the Second Puerto Plata Tourism Project,
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1979, was signed on
November 12, 1979.



- 27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                   Type of         Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                  Business        Loan   Equity    Total
1974        Cementos Nacionales S.A.     Construction    6.0       1.4     7.4
Material                 -
1978        Financiera Empresarial       Industrial
S.A.                         Credit        3.0         -     3.0
Total Gross Commitments                      9.0       1.4    10.4
Less Repayments                            0.3         -     0.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                     8.7       1.4    10.1
Total Undisbursed                            3.0         -     3.0



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit 352 DO    Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; $13.0 million
Credit of January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is two and-a-half years behind schedule, partly
because of delays in recruiting consultants, and partly because Contract I
financed by IDB could not be signed until rights of way were obtained, a
condition in IDB's loan agreement. Project costs are estimated at 90 percent
above appraisal estimates. A crucial problem has involved delays in the
Government's decision to carry out the land acquisition and redistribution
program. The Government has submitted a bill to Congress for its approval,
which would permit the executive branch to establish a maximum property size
for each area irrigated by state systems. Additional funds are needed to
extend the contract of the supervision firm beyond 1980, as INDRHI's capability
to execute the supervision of construction is not adequate. IDB has, in
principle, indicated it would provide financing. It is expected that the
project will be further delayed because of damages to the works caused by the
recent hurricanes. Cost estimates of hurricane damages are $1.3 million.
It is expected that IDB will finance these costs.
Loan 1051 DO      Tourism I Project; $21.0 million loan of November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other faci-
lities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
completion of some project components is likely to be delayed by about one
year. Construction of the first tourist accommodations (golf villas) at Playa
Dorada has started. Negotiations with other private investors for a hotel in
Playa Grande and an apartment complex in Playa Dorada are under way. Revised
project costs, including provision for price escalation and land acquisition,
amount to $39 million compared to $36 million estimated at appraisal.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses of projects in execution.



- 29-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1142-DO     Second Education Project; $8.0 million loan of July 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project finances the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 204 rural community learning centers; 4 agricultural training centers,
3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools, and of
4 vocational training centers; a text book feasibility study, and training.
The project is over two years behind schedule. Construction of vocational
schools is delayed. However, Congress has recently approved legislation
which will permit execution of this component. Construction of primary rural
schools is underway. Acquisition of equipment for secondary schools was
delayed by procurement problems which have now been resolved. The agricultural
training centers have almost been completed.
Loan 1316-DO     Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction; $5.0 million
Loan of August 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides a highway maintenance program; reconstruction
of a 19 Km. road and technical assistance. Technical assistance is being
provided satisfactorily for the nationwide maintenance program. Purchase
of 95 percent of the maintenance equipment has been made. Works on the
reconstruction of the Puente Rio Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road are now
proceeding satisfactorily, after an initial 3 month delay. The project is
expected to be completed in early 1980.
Loan 1325-DO     Population and Family Health; $5.0 million loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date:   June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the construction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contraception
programs, and technical assistance. Construction of the health sub-center
and ten rural clinics has been completed. Construction of the remaining 16
clinics is underway. Fellowships for nursing students are being provided.
The first group of medical students has been sent to rural areas for two-month
periods of practice. However, the community-based health family program is
progressing slowly. The program was to include the definition of the levels
of medical attention in rural areas, training of the Secretariat of Health
personnel, and preparation of a health manual, plus improvements in the data
system. Hurricane damage to the project has been limited to damage to rural
clinics caused by refugees. It is expected that the additional expenditures
will be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Loan 1655-DO     Nizao Irrigation Project:   $27.0 million loan of
February 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The terminal date of effectiveness has been extended to December 5,
1979 to permit the Government additional time to fulfill conditions of loan
effectiveness. The Bank would agree to reconstruction of about 2 km of the
Marcos A. Cabral Canal, damaged by the hurricanes, under abbreviated bidding
procedures.



- 30-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1699-DO    Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project:    $25 million
loan of November 12, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan was signed on November 12, 1979 and is not yet effective.
Loan 1760-DO      Sugar Rehabilitation Project:   $35 million loan of October 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan was signed on October 26, 1979, and is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to Bank and appraisal mission:    September 9, 1979
(b) Post appraisal: October 29, 1979
(c) Completion of negotiations: November 20, 1979.
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: March 15, 1980
Special Conditions of the Loan Agreement
(a) A Construction Management Unit would be created within SEOPC to
carry-out works by force account. The unit would be staffed
with a Dominican Director, an expatriate engineer with extensive
experience in construction management who would act as Co-Director.
A Public Accountant or Economist with experience in cost accounting
and two Civil Engineers to direct force account work. The establish-
ment of the Unit, and the hiring of the Co-Director would be
conditions of disbursement for civil works. (Para. 58).
(b) Specialized consultants would be hired to update engineering,
supervise execution and monitor costs.   This would be a condi-
tion of disbursement for civil works (Para 58).
(c) SEOPC would endeavor to assign staff already in its payroll to
the project and the hiring of additional manpower for the project
would be on terms limited to the execution of project works (Para. 59).
(d) SEOPC would establish a Revolving Fund for purposes of the
project (Para. 63).
(e) SEOPC would establish a separate account for the operational
expenditures of the CMU with an initial deposit of $75,000 and
an average semi-annual balance also of $75,000. Condition of
disbursement for operational expenditures of the CMU would be
that such disbursements do not exceed, at any given time,
2 percent of disbursements for civil works (Para. 58).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
LIST AND COST ESTIMATE OF HIGHWAY EQUIPMENT
Estimated
Unit Cost     Total Cost
Equipment                             No. Units      (1979 Prices)      (US$)
Dozer, D 6                                2              80,000        160,000
Front End Loader, 1.34 m3                 2              65,000        130,000
Dump Truck, 5 m3                         16              24,000         384,000
Motograders, 125 EP                       4              80,000         320,000
Roller Tandem, 8-10 T                     2              35,000          70,000
Roller, Pneumatic, Self Propelled         2              20,000          40,000
Water Truck                               2              22,000          44,000
Miscellaneous Equipment                   -                 -           160,000
Spare Parts (15%)                                                      192,000
Total Equipment                                                      $1,500,000



IBRKD 1449 R
U.S A.             ~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1979
77'                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71'-                 70-                                                            ;    ii
Luoeron                                                                          2 - -,,ldtidu       Ar/onZA , Ocean
f,p  r,u .blos. 
zDr                                                                                   1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ae,
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G                                            /  of  M e_ H, c '  | ao,
DOMINiCAN
Bay af  I1. V.,  L. Ca                                                                                      REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUBI
0r5e C _  r   SMEXI                                        BELIZE  JAMAICA  HAI TIA,OO R.-
Cob e o                            G,~ o  sXCENrE  QCUATEMA  Ca,,bbea Seo
T'                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL SALVAO  NC RAGUA  * IIA
ii E  L A T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pn, COT RC                                  VNZUL
AJA  SABANETA       LD, r         MA     IP                                    "'C"'C  COSTA R]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAAM  COOARi~-
CProoscondido  -   polmordeOco,< -            TNi                  DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LAqalNe9roa               R o  ARAHONA      LsSams    AgIodRLrXE,Ionbio  SECOND ROAD. MAINTENANCE /RECONSTRUCTION           SOI 
\  2  >  's,  g   //                                     ~~~~~~~AND EMERGENCY ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
c .Road                        Reconstruction Engieering
PEDERNALES <\      "  B AR A HO N                                         efoa5                       Rroad Secllons to be Reconstructed                 1
Cob Roi   P          .- / tvI              c O r / b   e on=                                  Secondazry Roods
T-bo Rolo\   RODR  GI/gEnriquillo                                                          I , b Railroad (Stote owned)
rJ   \ / <                          O   10~~~~~~~ I  20  30  AD  50      1*    Airports
(_  XOvIedo$/                      KILOMETERS                   ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ProvincIal Boundaries  / 
72.  gS-ea-                                                                                      b- d.-       69- Mo_,
19,  11.10 de Yq-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oMB,. ,eI .b.s.0
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~lftOlISM. tSSI
73              C   Bem  5.SWlObIlI                                                                                                             Sll I,dP,Wb



