LOAN NUMBER 1783 DO
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Road Reconstruction Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated         OUI, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1783 X0
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      6TrcJaA I              , 1980, between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (herei2fter calle    the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
financing reconstruction works of certain productive facilities of
the Borrower damaged by the hurricanes David and Frederick that
devastated the territory of the Borrower on August 31, 1979 and
September 5, 1979, respectively;
(B) as part of such request, the Borrower has requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set fort...
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SEOPC" means Secretarfa de Estado de Obras Pfblicas
y Comunicaciones of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "Construction Management Unit" means the unit to be
established for purposes of the Project within SEOPC by the
Borrower's Decree No. 1276, dated October 27, 1979;
(c) "DP$" means Dominican Peso, the currency unit of the
Borrower;
(d) "Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project" means the
Project financed under the Loan Agreement Number 1316 T-DO signed
between the Borrower and the Bank on August 10, 1976; and
(e) "Special Account" means the revolving account estab-
lished in the name of the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open through SEOPC a Special Account in the Borrower's Banco de
Reservas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Dis-
bursements from such Special Account shall be made exclusively to
finance the cost of civil works under the Project and to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(c) The Bank shall, promptly after the Effective Date,
provided the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfac-
tory to the Bank that the Borrower has deposited the equivalent of
$1,200,000 in the Special Account, withdraw, on behalf of the


﻿-3-
Borrower, from the Loan Account out of Category (6) of Schedule 1,
paragraph 1, and deposit in the Special Account an amount in DP$
not exceeding the equivalent of $2,200,000 and shall thereafter,
upon application by the Borrower, further withdraw, on behalf of
the Borrower, from the Loan Account, out of Category (5) of such
Schedule, and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to reimburse the Borrower for 65% of the payments made
out of the Special Account for expenditures for civil works
included in such Category (5) and eligible to be financed under
this Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount already on deposit in the
Special Account (including deposits made by the Borrower in
accordance with paragraph (f) (i) of this Section) as of the date
of the application of the Borrower referred to above, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $3,400,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request showing that the
payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of civil
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for expenditures not eligible
for financing under this Agreement; or (ii) was not justified by
the evidence furnished pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and prior to
any further deposit in the Special Account by the Bank, deposit in
the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) above,
no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made: (i)
unless the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to
the Bank showing that the Borrower has deposited in the Special
Account an amount (other than the $1,200,000 equivalent referred
to in paragraph (c) above) equivalent to 35% of each payment made
out of the Special Account and for which reimbursement has been
applied for by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (c) above; or (ii) (A) if the Bank shall have determined
that further withdrawals from the Loan Account for purposes of the
Project can be made without utilizing the Special Account or (B)
when the amount of the Loan deposited in the Special Account in
accordance with the provisions of this Section has reached the
equivalent of the amount allocated from time to time to Category
(5) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement minus


﻿-4-
the double of the amount allocated to Category (6) of such table,
whichever shall be sooner.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Before any contract for civil works or purchase of
equipment is awarded, but in any event not later than six months
from the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare a
Civil. Works Procurement Program and a Program for the Purchase of
Equipment, both satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Civil Works Procurement Program shall indicate,
inter alia, the parts of the civil works included in the Project
to be carried out by the Borrower by force account.
(d) On a date not later than six months after the date on
which each of the Programs is approved by the Bank, and at inter-
vals of not more than six month periods thereafter, the Borrower
and the Bank shall review jointly the Program in question in
respect of the parts of the works carried out, and of the lots of
equipment purchased thereunder, and, after each such review, the
Borrower shall, if necessary, modify each Program in agreement
with the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through SEOPC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For purposes of (a) above, the Borrower shall, inter
alia, take all such action as shall be necessary or convenient to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in updating
engineering designs and tender documenti for and supervising the
execution of the roads included in the Project, and monitor..ng the
costs thereof, the Borrower shall employ engineering co. ..ultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
(c) Upon the completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall assign the equipment purchased under the Loan to SEOPC for
use in its regular road maintenance operations. Upon said assign-
ment, the maintenance of the equipment, replacement of spare
parts thereof and services related thereto shall be solely SEOPC's
responsibility.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain, until the Closing Date, the Construction
Management Unit which shall manage construction works under,


﻿-6-
update engineering for, and supervise the execution of, the
Project;
(b) (i) staff the Construction Management Unit, not later
than April 1, 1980 and in accordance with Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
between the Borrower and the Bank, with experienced and competent
staff who, in the case of the director and co-director of such
Unit, shall have such qualifications and experience as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) if necessary for the execution
of the Project, hire, and also put under the authority of such
Unit such additional qualified staff as shall be agreed from time
to time between the Borrower and the Bank, on a fixed term basis
until Project completion;
(c) assign to the Construction Management Unit such part of
the equipment of SEOPC, as required for the Construction Manage-
ment Unit to start operations; and
(d) for purposes of operating the Construction Management
Unit: (i) open, and maintain until the Closing Date, an account in
the Borrower's Banco de Reservas and deposit in such account, not
later than April 1, 1980, the equivalent in DP$ of not less than
$75,000; (ii) allow withdrawals from such account only for operat-
ing expenses for the Pro.ject, other than civil works, of the
Construction Management Unit; and (iii),deposit into such account,
upon request of the director of such Unit and promptly after every
withdrawal from such account has been made, the equivalent in DP$
required to maintain in such account an average semiannual calance
equivalent to not less than $75,000.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedulei for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding .its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine


﻿-7-
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make


﻿-8-
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records, including separate accounts for the Project,
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures, in respect of the Project, of the departments and agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall have, and cause Banco de
Reservas to have: (i) the accounts referred to in Section 4.02
of this Agreement and the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
referred to in (i) above and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all of its roads,
including the roads to be reconstructed under the Project, to be
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs  thereof to
be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(ii) cause all of its road maintenance equipment and workshops to
be adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; and 'iii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date IAvC    -,?i/ 9a(J , :s hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of SectNQd 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretario de Estado de Obras P'blicas
y Comunicaciones of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado de Obras
P5blicas y Comunicaciones
Ave. San Crist6bal, Ensanche la Fe
Santo Domingo, DN
Dominican Republic
Cable address:                 Telex:
Secretarlia de Estado de       SEOPC 3460232 (ITT)
Obras Publicas y
Comunicaciones
Santo Domingo, D.N.


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Santo
Domingo, DN, Dominican Republic, and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin  merica and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment                     1,400,000
(a) directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported and                               95% of local
procured locally                          expenditures
(2) Consultants for               1,100,000         65%
supervision of
Project execution
(3) Technical assistance            100,000         100% of for-
to Construction                                eign expendi-
Management Unit                                tures
(4) Operating costs of              200,000         30%
Construction
Management Unit
(5) Civil works                  15,100,000         65%
(6) Initial deposit in            2,200,000
Special Account
(7) Unallocated                   4,900,000
TOTAL             25,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,500,000 may be made in respect of any Category of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1979;
(ii) in respect of Categories (3), (4), (5) and (6) of such table,
unless the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that the Construction Management Unit has been estab-
lished to the Bank's satisfaction, the co-director thereof have
been hired, and the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement have been hired; and (iii) in respect of Category
(4) of such table, if withdrawals in respect of such Category will
exceed 2%, or such other percentage as shall be agreed from time
to time between the Borrower and the Bank, of withdrawals made in
respect of Category (5) of such table.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in


﻿- 13 -
that Category or, in respect of Category (5), when no further
deposits shall be made in the Special Account in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of: (i) the reconstruction of two roads
connecting Cruce de Guayacanes, Santiago Rodrfguez and Santiago de
la Cruz (about 85 km), and Azua and Barahona (about 65 km). The
roads will be reconstructed in accordance with the Road Design
Standards specified in the Annex to this Schedule. The roads are
located in two highly agricultural areas, and the objective of
the Project is to limit economic loss resulting from the road
floodings caused by the hurricanes David and Frederick; and (ii)
the purchase and utilization of equipment for the aforesaid.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Roads
Primary = Azua - Barahona
Secondary = Cruce de Guayacanes - Santiago Rodrfguez - Santiago de la Cruz
Design                             Profile Profile                                   Bridges
R.O.W. Speed    Minim. Horiz.   Max.        Grade   Grade    Roadbed Pav't Shoulder Overall Design Load
Road Class   Meters   KPH    Curve  Radius Super Elev.   Max. Absol.Max. Width     Width   Width    Width      Factor
Mtr           %          %        %       Mtr                                 1.25
Primary        60     100        340           10          5        6      11        7      2       10.5     HS-20-44
Secondary      40      80        210           10         6        7        9.5      6.5    1.5     10.5     HS-20-44
Mountainous
Terrain      40      60        110           10          7        9       9.5      6.5    1.5     10.5     JS-20-44
(primary and
secondary)


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   September 1, 1996                   960,000
On March 1, 1997                                 1000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but not
nore than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
11.   Goods to be purchased under contracts awarded before
March 1, 1980, may be procured after having solicited price
quotations from a group of established suppliers, which shall


﻿- 19 -
include all those suppliers who bid under any bidding which has
taken place, for the procurement of equipment, for purposes of the
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
2.   Among the terms and conditions of such solicitation,
the Borrower will include the following requirements:
(a) whenever possible, the specifications will be the same
as for the equipment that has been purchased under the Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project for SEOPC's regular main-
tenance operations; and
(b) the time to deliver the equipment shall not exceed
90 days from the date of the award.
3.   Goods to be purchased under contracts estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured on the basis
of other procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however,
that the aggregate of the contracts so procured shall not exceed
the equivalent of $200,000.
4.   Subject to paragraph 5 below, contracts for civil works
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding locally
advertised under procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
however, that if such contracts are to be awarded before March 1,
1980, the bidding could be limited to a group of not less than
three contractors satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   Certain parts of the civil works under the Project, to
the extent provided for in the Civil Works Procurement Program
referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement, as such Program
may be modified from time to time in accordance with such Section,
may be carried out by force account by the Borrower.
C.   1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts other than contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less:
(a) Before bids are invited or price quotations solicited,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding


﻿- 20 -
documents and of the solicitations, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or proce-
dures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents or to the solicitations shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the pros-
pective bidders or quoters, as the case may be.
(b) After bids or quotations, as the case may be, have been
received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final deci-
sion on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder or quoter to which it intends to award the contract and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids and
quotations received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or price quotations solicited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids
or price quotation, as the case may be, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of


﻿- 21 -
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Title, Qualifications and Experience
and Functions of Key Staff for the
Construction Management Unit
Title         Qualifications and Experience        Functions
Director     Civil Engineer, with 20 years      Overall manage-
of experience in administration,   ment of the Con-
management and supervision of      struction Manage-
civil works                        ment Unit
Co-director Civil Engineer, fluent in Spanish, Assistant and
with 15 years of experience in     technical advisor
administration and execution of    to the director
civil works of which no less than
10 years will be in highway con-
struction
2 Resident   Civil Engineer with a minimum of   In charge of con-
Engineers 10 years experience in highway      struction unit
construction                       which carries out
force account
work
Financial    Graduate public accountant or      Preparation of
Manager      economist with 10 years of         financial state-
experience in administration       ments and periodic
of financial and accounting        reports; control
(including cost accounting)        of invoices re-
aspects of civil works exe-        sulting from work
cution                             done by force
account and con-
tractors


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -day of              , 19vo
FOR SECRETARY


