Document of
The World Bank  FLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1905b-IND
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This doeuennt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00             =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100              =  US$0.241
Rp 1 million        =  US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)    =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM) =  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                    =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =  2,205 pounds
gO'NVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry srtalk paddy"       =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)            =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS             -  Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
BRI               -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG       -  Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD              -  Bahan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD             -  Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DGC               -  Directorate-General of Cooperatives
DIP               -  Project Implementation Budget
DOR               -  Directorate of Rivers
DPMA              -  Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
GWh               -  Gigawatt hour (1 million kilowatt hours)
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HYV               -  High-Yielding Variety
INMAS             -  Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES            -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA             -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
KUD               -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA               - Ministry of Agriculture
MW                -  Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
NFCE              -  National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M               -  Operation and maintenance
PLN               -  Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara - National Power Company
of Indonesia
PROSIDA           -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
Proyek Cimanuk    -  Badan Pelaksana Proyek Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai
Cimanuk, "Project Executive Body for Cimanuk River
Basin Development"
Proyek Hidrologi  -  Badan Pelaksana Proyek Hidrologi dengan bantuan Bank
Dunia, "Project Executive Body for Hydrological Study
with World Bank Assistance"
REC               -  Rural Extension Center
SEDEKU            -  Semarang-Demak-Kudus Irrigation System
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDONESIA: APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION XI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   BACKGROUND   .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .1
General  .1...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
The Agricultural and Rural Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Development Strategies ................ . .    2
The Irrigation Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Project Formulation.                                              5
2. THE PROJECT AREAS.                                                    7
Location   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
Climate 7
soils.                                                            8
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . . .    8
Agricultural Support Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Existing Works and Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
3.   THE   PROJECT  .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
The Project Works .12
Water Supply, Demand and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Status of Engineering .15
Implementation Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Cost Estimates .16
Financing  .  .   .   .   .   .    .  .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .  .    .   .    .  .   .  16
Procurement .17
Disbursements .18
Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Environmental Effects .18
4.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Project Management .21
Consultants, Advisors and Training . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Agricultural Support Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Monitoring   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  26
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION .27
Present Cropping Patterns .27
Future Cropping Patterns .28
Future Yields with Project .29
Cropping Calendars .29
Drying, Storage and Processing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
This Report is based upon findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. J.J. O'Brien, M. Saddington, W.P. Ting, N.D. Owens (Bank), L. Bartsch,
M. Fireman, and E.B. Lipcomb (Consultants), which visited Indonesia in
October 1977.



- ii -
Page No.
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES. .   32
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .  .  .  .  .   .    32
Prices ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
Farm  Incomes   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  . .     .  33
Project Charges  . . . . .          . . . . . . .  .  .  .   .    35
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
List of Tables in Main Report
3.1 Cipamingkis Subproject Water Balance  . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
3.2  Summary Cost Estimate ... .  .  .   ..... .  .  o .  .  .  .  .   .  20
4.1  Consulting Services and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
5.1  Cropping Patterns and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
6.1 Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizers  . . . . . . .  38
6.2  Input and Output Price Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
6.3  Summary of Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
6.4  Rent Recovery ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .   .   41
7.1 Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Project
Development   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  47
7.2  Total Monthly Crop Labor Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
7.3  Economic Costs and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates, Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation
of Loan Proceeds
2. Crop and Farm Budgets
3. Schedule of Early Events
4. Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files
List of Figures
3.1  Implementation Schedule
4.1  Organization Chart - Director General Water Resources
Development
4.2  Organization Chart - PROSIDA
4.3  Organization Chart - DPMA
4.4  Organization Chart - DOR
4.5  Organization Chart - Jatiluhur Authority
5.1  Cipamingkis Subproject - Proposed Cropping Calendar
5.2  Jragung Subproject - Proposed Cropping Calendar
List of Maps
IBRD 13142 Irrigation Project XI
IBRD 13144 Cipamingkis Subproject
IBRD 13531 Jragung Dam Subproject



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for
the construction of a weir and irrigation system for the 7,600 ha Cipamingkis
area of West Java; the construction of the access road, diversion tunnel and
base camp as the first stage of the Jragung Dam project in Central Java; the
initiation of a water resource development oriented hydrologic measurement
program throughout Indonesia; preparation of a master plan for the conserva-
tion and development of the water and land resources of the Cimanuk River
Basin in West Java; and the review and conduct of studies for irrigation
development and review and completion of designs for flood control in the
lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin rivers.
1.02      The feasibiity studies for the Cipamingkis subproject was initially
prepared with local consultant assistance (P.T. Indah Karya) and updated by
the Jatiluhur Authority; for the Jragung Dam subproject, feasibility studies
were prepared under PROSIDA with consultant assistance (ECI) from USAID.
The Hydrologic Measurement Program was prepared by the Directorate of Hydraulic
Engineering (DPMA) and the Cimanuk River Water Management Program by the
Directorate of Rivers, with consultant assistance from Gadja Mada University.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Major Issues.  The major issues facing the agricultural and rural
sector in Indonesia are: the need to create productive employment oppor-
tunities to raise the incomes of the rural poor; the need to increase domestic
food supply to keep pace with rising demand; the need to expand production
of agricultural exports, particularly smallholder tree crops; and the need
to ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and
other natural resources. These issues are all interrelated. Their solution
will necessarily involve complex and sometimes novel technical and organiza-
tional approaches, along with attendant risks that must be recognized and
accepted if programs are to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems on
the requisite scale. The risks of action must be weighed against the risks
of inaction in the face of widespread poverty and underemployment, growing
food import requirements, and ecological damage caused by insufficient
control of deforestation in the most densely populated areas.
1.04      Role and Performance of the Sector.  Although the contribution of
agriculture to GDP and exports has declined during the last 15 years, the
rural sector continues to be of overwhelming importance to the vast majority
of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes and food production.
Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live in rural areas. With
the exception of oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on Inter-Censal Population Survey of March 1976.



-2-
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha and 1,800 large estates occupying 2.2
million ha. Over the five years to 1976, the growth rate of agricultural
production has been uneven, averaging 3.8% while total GDP grew at 7.9%. In
1977, agricultural performance was disappointing. For the second straight
year, rice production was plagued by inadequate or untimely rainfall in many
parts of Java, and by pest and disease damage to high yielding varieties.
In view of the critical role of agriculture as the primary source of house-
hold income for over half of all Indonesians, the slowdown in agricultural
growth takes on considerable social significance.
1.05      Development Problems and Potentials.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized and in some areas, agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of the country's total
land area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless and a
large proportion cannot support themselves on incomes from their own farms.
Outside Java there are large areas of unused cultivable land, although less
fertile than in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited. While the
inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living, they are
generally better off than many in Java.
Development Strategies
1.06      Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment does
at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to absorb the incremental labor force. Successful
locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be difficult
to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future employ-
ment strategy will therefore stress labor-intensive export industries
and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic market. There
may also be potential for more productive agricultural employment through
increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock,
including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
1.07      Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production
in the past, recent developments suggest a widening gap between domestic
production and demand for food. The rate of growth of rice production
appears to have declined in recent years and the principal non-rice food
crqps have stagnated. There is no room for relaxing the national rice
production effort. To keep rice imports below some reasonable fraction of
world trade in rice, demand must be shifted to other domestic and imported
staples and production must grow at around 4% per year. Improved water
management and agricultural supporting services are essential for increasing



rice yields and production. On Java there remains much scope for more
efficient water use, through construction of additional tertiary and quater-
nary canals. On-the other islands there is potential for new irrigation
systems including tidal and swamp land development. Efforts to increase rice
production must include an intensified research and extension effort to solve
the pest and disease problem. Upland food crops also offer promising develop-
ment prospects. There is much room for yield improvement through intensified
research and supporting services, and tremendous scope for area expansion in
the other islands if stable, long-term cropping systems can be developed. In
addition, a food policy which emphasizes upland crop production as well as
rice would serve the twin goals of growth and equity better than a policy
aimed exclusively at rice, as many of the poorest parts of Java and the other
islands are best suited to dry land farming.
1.08      Transmigration.  Transmigration offers challenging opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the other islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed. The present focus is on the
organizational aspects of transmigration and the design of a least cost
package of services needed to ensure successful, long-term settlement.
1.09      Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of
services including planting material, land clearing and planting, inputs,
processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This approach is
well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical capabilities.
1.10      The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-
agency integrated area development programs in Java and land settlement
schemes in the other islands will require stronger field organizations of
Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well as new
administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational require-
ments of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become the
limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts to
strengthen the key rural development institutions.



- 4-
1.11      Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue.
1.12      The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the first
irrigation credit in 1968 the Bank has rapidly expanded its agricultural
and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree crops,
fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised. Of the three credits closed within
the last year (Estates I, Irrigation I and Pusri Fertilizer), all showed
excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as base year,
Bank financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil
output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of incremen-
tal rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank agricultural lending to
Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development activities;
(b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support of small-
holders; (c) an increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater
emphasis on development of the other islands. All these trends are consis-
tent with the Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.13      Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1976, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover about 5 million
ha, of which Java accounts for 60%. Average paddy yields on Java are
about 3.3 ton/ha compared with 2.8 ton/ha in the other islands. Although
irrigation has long been a major feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the
late 1960s, the systems built during the colonial period were in a state
of complete disrepair. Irrigation development during the first two develop-
ment plan periods concentrated heavily on the rehabilitation of these
systems. Construction of new systems, mainly to serve as the basis for
transmigration projects outside Java, lagged behind.
1.14      With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems
either completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia
will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal
land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that
irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems
still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost,
and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should be
developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program concluded that to
expand rice production along with demand at 4% per year, the level of
investment in irrigation should be increased by about 20%. This in turn



would require strengthening of the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD), training and staff development, and an expansion of
agricultural supporting services. The proposed project fits in well with
these conclusions.
Project Formulation
1.15      Cipamingkis and Jragung are unrelated projects on the island of
Java. While project works at Cipamingkis are for a single purpose, irriga-
tion, those at Jragung are multipurpose and include irrigation, flood con-
trol, municipal and industrial water supply, and hydroelectric power genera-
tion. The construction of the works proposed under these two components has
been combined with the hydrologic and water management programs to provide an
appropriately sized loan package adaptable to normal supervision.
1.16      The proposed irrigation works at Cipamingkis and Jragung are a
slight departure from the type of projects that GOI has undertaken with Bank
assistance under the previous credits and loans. Irrigation Projects I
through IX had as a major thrust, the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
systems that had become severely deteriorated due to the lack of maintenance
over a period of about 30 years following the advent of World War II.
Cipamingkis would provide a new irrigation system in a predominantly rain-
fed area; while Jragung by supplying dry-season water, would intensify
irrigated cropping in a presently irrigated area. The last major irrigation
system in Java needing improvement is being assisted under Irrigation VIII
(Loan 1434-IND). Construction of new systems and intensification of existing
systems is the next logical step to increase irrigated agricultural produc-
tivity on Java, the most densely populated and developed area of the
Indonesian archipelago. The proposed works support GOI's policy of improv-
ing, extending, and intensifying agricultural production, and helping to meet
a serious deficit in Indonesian foodgrain supply.
1.17      The Cipamingkis project would supply run-of-river irrigation water
to a group of farmers near the Jatiluhur Irrigation Area (assisted by the
Bank under Credits 195-IND and 514-IND). However, the proposed water supply
for the Cipamingkis area is completely independent of those water sources
which serve the Jatiluhur area.
1.18      Jragung Dam was identified in a major river basin study /1 GOI con-
ducted to plan flood control and drainage works in the East Semarang area.
The resulting master plan proposed several integrated works, including dams
and reservoirs, drainage, flood channels and irrigation rehabilitation. The
proposed Jragung Dam, and the ongoing SEDEKU drainage and irrigation works
(Bank-assisted under Loan 1435-IND), are part of the proposed works. To
/1 The Jratunseluna River Basin, which is a group of five river basins,
namely, Jragung, Tuntang, Serang, Lusi and Juana, studies for which
were undertaken from 1970 to 1974 with consultant assistance (NEDECO)
financed under bilateral aid from the Netherlands.



-6-
fully utilize the potential of the Jragung site, in addition to flood con-
trol, the proposed works would provide irrigation and municipal water sup-
plies and hydroelectric power generation. Subsequently GOI, with consultant
assistance (ECI) financed by United States bilateral assistance updated the
NEDECO feasibility studies and undertook detailed design of the dam.
1.19      Besides providing flood control for 1,800 ha alongside the Jragung
River's banks downstream of the proposed dam, the dam would also assist in the
flood protection of the 30,000 ha SEDEKU area. The SEDEKU project works were
designed assuming the construction of the Jragung Dam. Until the dam is
constructed, the Jragung River 50-year flood would exceed the SEDEKU design
flood by about 30%. Such a flood may breach or overtop some portions of the
Jragung embankments designed to protect the SEDEKU area. Agricultural benefits
from the dam would be limited to the 7,600 Jragung irrigation area, the
1,800 ha lying alongside the river and to the 1,100 ha near the coast that
would benefit from return flows in the dry season.
1.20      GOI, with consultant assistance (Burns and McDonnell - Trans
Asia Engineering Associates), has recently identified three alternative
sources of municipal and industrial water supply for the city of Semarang,
the Central Java provincial capital. These are Muncul Springs, Jragung
Reservoir, and Penggaron Reservoir. Groundwater sources south of Semarang
also appear promising, though probably in limited quantities. While, in
terms of capital investment, Muncul Springs would be the least cost alter-
native, the water from this source is already being used for irrigation and
hydroelectric generation and only a limited quantity is available for
municipal use. Development of groundwater is being studied with ADB
assistance. Of the two reservoirs, GOI has chosen Jragung as the more
economic, to supply some 63 MCM of water/year for Semarang. GOI considers
this supply, in addition to the Muncul and groundwater sources also being
developed, would meet Semerang's demand for water up to around 1990.
1.21      As presently formulated, the proposed works include a six megawatt
(MW) capacity hydroelectric powerplant, which would produce 30 gigawatt hours
(GWh) of energy annually; and a 17 km transmission line to tie the power
produced into the main Central Java grid. The powerplant would be operated
incidental to the other project functions, and no releases of water are
proposed solely for power generation. However, the economic viability of the
powerplant has yet to be fully established, and its inclusion in project
works would be reviewed during detailed design.
1.22      Detailed design of the dam itself will not be completed until March
1979. The appraisal revealed that while sufficient investigations have been
carried out to establish the technical soundness and economic viability of
the dam, the remaining work would result in a more reliable cost estimate. Pro-
ceeding with the initial stages as proposed in this project would not impact
on remaining studies, but would advance the time when project benefits can be



- 7 -
achieved. It was therefore decided to proceed on a "time-slice" basis under
which the entire project would be appraised at this time, but financing under
the loan would be provided only for the construction of the access road, base
camp and diversion tunnel. Assurances have been obtained from GOI, that it
would proceed with the construction of the dam and its appurtenant facilities
in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed between the borrower and the
Bank. These latter works would be considered for financing under future Bank
loans.
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01      The Cipamingkis subproject area lies about 30 km southeast of
Jakarta in the uplands above the main Jatiluhur project area in West Java.
It is an essentially rural agricultural area lying about 10 km off the main
Jakarta-Bogor-Bandung Highway. The Jragung Dam is located on the Jragung
River about 20 km southeast of Semarang. The Jragung River drains a part of
the northeastern slopes of the extinct volcano Gunung Ungaran (peak elevation
2,050 m). Its headwater is at elevation 1,250 m on the side of the volcano
and the river profile drops rapidly to the coastal plain, at slopes of up to
200 m/km. Only one small village of about 400 population is located in the
reservoir area. There are two very small hamlets below the damsite which
would be affected by the spillway. It is proposed that these communities be
located to higher ground as a part of dam construction. There would be no
relocations as a consequence of the initial stage work included in this
project. The irrigation service area lies in the northwestern part of the
basin, between the Tuntang River to the east and the Dolok River to the west.
The proposed project area of some 7,600 ha would be directly irrigated, while
about 1,100 ha farther downstream would benefit from return flows during the
dry season. The Directorate of Irrigation using local funds, or PROSIDA
under Loan 1435-IND, have either recently rehabilitated or are currently
rehabilitating the irrigation systems that would be provided water supply
from the project. The Cimanuk River has its origin at Mount Puncak Gede at
an elevation of over 2,000 m. Initially, it traverses the mountainous region
east of Bandung, debouches onto the coastal plain below the proposed Jatigede
Dam and flows northward into the Java sea below the town of Indramayu. Its
total length is about 180 km. Total drainage area is about 3,600 sq km.
Climate
2.02      There is little variation in the tropical, monsoonal climate of
Java, with temperatures varying only a few degrees around the annual average
of 26 0C. Mean annual precipitation ranges from 1,500 to 3,000 mm except in
the highest areas, where it often approaches 5,000 mm. Seasonal weather
patterns prevail with the wet season (northwest monsoon) extending from
November to May and the dry season (southeast monsoon) from June through
October.



- 8 -
2.03      In the Cipamingkis subproject area, mean annual temperature is
25.40C. Mean annual precipitation for the area is about 4,700 mm upstream of
the Cipamingkis river and about 2,600 mm in the downstream area. Mean annual
relative humidity is 82%, percentage of possible sunshine about 74%, and wind
velocity slightly under 4 km/hr. Dry season rainfall is slightly higher than
on the north coast plains, averaging from about 120 to 230 mm/month. Rice
cannot be grown during the dry season without supplemental irrigation and
secondary crops frequently suffer severe moisture stresss. Although there is
only minor variation in day lengths throughout the year, photosensitive rice
varieties have different growth durations during the wet and dry seasons.
2.04      In the Jragung subproject area mean annual temperature is about
260C, with only minor variations from month to month. Precipitation over the
drainage area above the damsite averages about 2,700 mm annually. Relative
humidity ranges from 45 to 100% on a daily basis, with a monthly average of
85% in the wet season and about 75% in the dry season.
Soils
2.05      Although very little definitive information on soils is available
for the Cipamingkis subproject area, a Bank soils expert reviewed the data,
conducted a field inspection of the project area, and found the soils ideal
for sustained irrigated rice cultivation. The soils are alluvium of volcanic
origin having very fine clayey to fine silty texture in the surface horizon
and low percolation rates. The subsurface horizon is comprised of very fine
to fine clayey texture. Water holding capacity of the surface horizon ranges
from about 25% to 50% with a moderate to high acidity.
2.06      Soil surveys of the proposed Jragung Dam irrigation service area
were conducted by the Agricultural Institute in Bogor (IPB). The soils
are heavy textured gray or brownish gray. They have low permeability and
generally poor nutrient status which will require supplementary nitrogen and
phosphorus to obtain high yields. The soils are considered to be good rice
soils.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.07      The Cipamingkis project area has an estimated rural population of
103,000 made up of about 16,000 farm and 2,800 landless laborers families.
At Jragung, flood control and irrigation works would benefit about 158,400
people, consisting of some 20,200 farm and 8,600 landless laborers families.
The following table shows population statistics and average farm size for
each project area.



9 -
Flood pro-                        Average  No. of    No. of   Average
tection  Irrigated  Total rural family    farm    landless   farm
Subproject   area       area     population   size   families  families   size
(ha)      (ha)                                                 (ha)
Cipamingkis     -      7,600       103,000      5.5      16,000    2,800      0.5
Jragung     1,800      8,700       158,400      5.5      20,200    8,600      0.5
2.08      Farm size and land tenure data are sketchy.  Information from local
officials suggest an average farm size of 0.5 ha in both project areas.  The
following is a rough estimate of farm size distribution.
Farm size                                 No. of farms    Cultivated area
(ha)                         …----------- -             M(%)  …---------
Cipamingkis
Less than 0.5                                 59               29
0.5-1.0                                     32               43
1.0-2.0                                      6               19
More than 2.0                                  2                9
Jragung
Less than 0.5                                 58               30
0.5-1.0                                     28               34
1.0-2.0                                     13               31
More than 2.0                                  1                5
2.09      At Cipamingkis, some 77% of farmers are owner-operators, and 23%
sharecroppers, while at Jragung some 60% are owner-operators and 40% are
sharecroppers. In most sharecropping arrangments, the tenant and landowner
equally share total production, and input and harvesting costs, the tenant
and his family provide their labor, and the landowner pays the land tax.
Landless laborers comprise some 15% of the rural population at Cipamingkis,
and 30% at Jragung.
Agricultural Support Program
2.10      The BIMAS program provides farmers with subsidized credit, ferti-
lizer, agrochemicals; allowances for HYV seed, spraying and cost of living;
and extension advice for crop production. Under the BIMAS program the Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the main source of production credit. For irri-
gated rice production, a farmer can obtain up to Rp 37,000/ha to cover seed,



- 10 -
fertilizer, insecticide, rodenticide, spraying, and cost of living expenses.
The loan is for seven months at 1%/month interest rate. To be eligible
for the loan, a farmer must demonstrate a reliable cropping history and
not be more than two years overdue with his earlier BIMAS repayments. At
Cipamingkis, the BIMAS program covers some 50% of the wet-season paddy crop,
and 30% of the irrigated dry-season crop. At Jragung it covers 15% of the
wet-season paddy area, but does not operate in the dry-season.
2.11      The National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) pro-
duces limited supplies of certified paddy seed. This is distributed through
BUUD/KUDs at Rp 150/kg. This seed would be available at both Cipamingkis and
Jragung. In both subproject areas, seed growers who obtain their planting
material from district seed farms of the provincial agricultural services,
supply most or all available certified seed. The Directorate-General of
Cooperatives (DGC) operates two BUUDs at Cipamingkis and four at Jragung.
BUUDs are precooperatives which convert to farm cooperatives, or KUDs, when
proven viable. The cooperatives distribute fertilizer and agrochemicals, and
provide such processing services as paddy drying and cleaning, in addition to
storage. At each BUUD/KUD, the BRI establishes an office to handle BIMAS loan
applications and repayments.
2.12      In both project areas, staff of the Directorate of Food Crops
Agriculture within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provide extension ser-
vices to farmers. Due to shortages of staff, the extension services are
currently providing advice largely to farmers participating in the BIMAS
program. The National Food Crops Extension Project (NFCE) (Loan 1267-IND) is
correcting this deficiency. Presently extension services at Cipamingkis
consist of one new rural extension center (REC), one middle-level extension
worker (PPM), and seven field extension workers (PPLs). Jragung project area
has only minimal services with some three PPLs stationed there.
Existing Works and Infrastructure
2.13      Cipamingkis.  A semipermanent weir on the Cipamingkis River was
constructed during the colonial period and rehabilitated by GOI in 1974. It
serves as a headworks for the 500 ha existing semitechnical /1 irrigation
system in the subproject area. The remaining area is rainfed or flooded
from primitive village systems. The engineering and economic potential for
incorporating the existing weir into the subproject scheme would be explored
in the course of detailed design prior to construction.
2.14      Interior roads in the Cipamingkis area are neither extensive, of a
high standard, nor well maintained. Many are passable to motorized vehicles
only during the dry season. The poor condition of the roads adversely
affects the ability to distribute agricultural inputs in a timely fashion
as well as the marketing of agricultural production.
/1 Semitechnical irrigation refers to partially developed and controlled
systems.



- 11 -
2.15      Jragung.  Water supplies are diverted from the Jragung River at
Jragung weir for some 2,000 ha and from the Tuntang River at Glapan weir
for 1,200 ha in the subproject area. During the wet season the remaining
4,400 ha grow rainfed crops, however no dry season irrigation supplies are
available from either weir. With construction of Jragung Dam, water diverted
at Jragung weir would irrigate 6,400 ha in the wet season and Glapan weir
would continue to irrigate 1,200 ha. However, during the dry season, Jragung
weir would supply water to both the 6,400 ha and 1,200 ha areas. The exist-
ing irrigation infrastructure was constructed some 50 or more years ago.
Glapan weir and the western main Glapan canal, were rehabilitated under
Credit 127-IND. Silting and slides have reduced the capacity of the Jragung
main canal, and secondary and tertiary canals throughout the service area
are in poor repair and inadequate for intensive cropping. However, under
Loan 1435-IND and locally funded works, money has already been allocated
for the rehabilitation of the 3,200 ha service area and the construction of
4,400 ha of new service area. These works would be completed in time to use
water from the proposed Jragung Dam.
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would include:
(a) construction of a weir, headworks and primary canal, improvement,
enlargement and extension of secondary canals and construction of
tertiary canals to serve about 7,600 ha in the Cipamingkis area of
West Java (Map 13144);
(b) construction of an access road, base camp and diversion tunnel as
the first stage of construction of Jragung Dam in Central Java
(Map 13531);
(c) construction of measurement stations and provision of consulting
services to improve and accelerate the existing hydrologic program
in support of the planning, design and operation of water resource
projects throughout Indonesia; and
(d) provision of consulting services to prepare a master plan and
detailed designs for the conservation and development of the
water resources of the Cimanuk River Basin, West Java (Map 13142).
The project would also include consulting services for design of the
Cipamingkis system and supervision of construction for the Cipamingkis and
Jragung subprojects; construction of a telecommunications system, offices and
housing at Cipamingkis; procurement of essential vehicles and equipment and
training of project staff, especially for the Cipamingkis subproject and the
Hydrologic Measurement Program.



- 12 -
The Project Works
3.02      The project works for each of the subprojects can be summarized as
follows:
3.03      Cipamingkis.  The proposed works include construction of a gated
concrete overflow weir with a hydraulic height of 2 m and crest length
of 48 m flanked by earthen embankment dams. Weir facilities would include
gated headworks to serve the two main canals to be constructed on the left
and the right banks. About 4.5 km of access road to the weir site would be
constructed.
3.04      The irrigation system would involve construction of the unlined
main canals with a total length of about 19 km; about 44 km of secondary
canals; and about 215 km of tertiary canals serving about 50 blocks of land
averaging about 150 ha each and totaling 7,600 ha. About 230 structures
consisting of checks, drops, culverts, diversions and bridges would be con-
structed as part of the irrigation system.
3.05      Because of the undulating character of the project area, significant
drainage problems are not anticipated. However, the project would provide
drainage for about 2,300 ha where natural drainage cannot accommodate the
additional requirements from fully irrigated agriculture.
3.06      Jragung Dam.  This subproject includes extension and improvement of
an existing highway to serve as the main access road to the damsite; construc-
tion of a 4.0 m inside diameter tunnel 400 m long and a connecting 400 m open
channel to provide for diversion of the Jragung River during construction of
the dam proper; and the construction of the base camp required for subsequent
dam construction.
3.07      Road improvement and construction would require about 130,000 cu m
of excavation and backfill, 200,000 cu m of macadam, 1,200 cu m of concrete
and masonry for structures and drainage and acquisition of about 12 ha of
land.
3.08      The base camp would include a motor pool compound, camp and staff
housing and offices, mess halls and a generator housing building. About
26 ha of land would have to be acquired.
3.09      Hydrologic Measurement Program.  The Hydrologic Measurement Program
is designed to overcome a significant deficiency in historic planning, design
and operation of water resource developments in Indonesia due to a lack of
reliable streamflow data. The program is directed to the collection of such
data for utilization in near- and mid-term planning and designs for identi-
fied high priority potential developments. It would supplement a UNDP tech-
nical assistance project directed to institutional development and implemen-
tation of a national hydrologic network.
3.10      The work involved in this program includes the construction and
equipping of 120 stream flow measuring stations, 20 climatological stations,



- 13 -
and 40 rainfall stations. In addition, equipment would be provided to record
water level fluctuations in about 20 observation wells and for about 18 crews
to service, maintain and obtain records at the above-mentioned measurement
network scattered throughout Indonesia.
3.11      Automatic data processing (ADP) and printing equipment will be
furnished for the central office of the Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
(DPMA) in Bandung for the processing, compilation, analysis and publication
of the data obtained through this and similar programs under DPMA.
3.12      Technical assistance in the fields of hydrometeorology, hydrology,
sedimentation and ADP equipment utilization and operation would be provided
to assure effective implementation of the program.
3.13      The number, type and location of hydrologic and climatologic
measurement stations included in the program were determined from the coordi-
nated needs of the individual agencies under the DGW7RD. The ADP and printing
equipment are supplemental to existing equipment and represent requirements
to eliminate a backlog of from 5 to 7 years in the compilation and publication
of hydrologic data.
3.14      Cimanuk River Water Management Program.  The Cimanuk River Water
Management Program would be the first involvement by the Bank Group in
Indonesia for the development of a master plan for the management of the land
and water resources of an entire river basin. It would involve the review,
analysis and coordination of all existing and largely unintegrated plans for
water and land resource development in the basin and evolve an integrated and
coordinated plan for the utilization, conservation and management of those
resources.
3.15      A number of studies, ranging from reconnaissance through detailed
design have been completed or are under way, covering specific potential
water and land resource development. Principal among these is the Jatigede
Dam, which would be a major multipurpose facility on the Cimanuk River, and
is currently in the detailed design stage through Australian bilateral
assistance.
3.16      A large number of additional studies for small developments in
the basin have also been prepared by the DOI and Provincial Public Works,
and a plan for management of the upper watershed has been proposed by
the Directorate of Forestry and Land Rehabilitation in the Ministry of
Agriculture. All of these plans, investigations and studies would be re-
evaluated and blended into an integrated program for development under the
Master Plan to evolve from this project.
3.17      The New Rentang Barrage on the Cimanuk River is being assisted
uner Irrigation VI (Loan 1100-IND) and the contract for construction of
the barrage is scheduled for award in May 1978. A plan for flood protection
on the lower Cimanuk River below New Rentang Barrage has been completed, but



- 14 -
designs require additional review before a final implementation plan can be
adopted. In addition, plans for flood control on the Cipanas and Ciwaringin
rivers adjacent to the lower Cimanuk River have also been completed but
designs need to be reviewed.
3.18      Deferral of the power function from the proposed Jatigede Dam on
the upper Cimanuk River will permit that facility to serve an additional irri-
gation area of about 20,000 ha, and reconnaissance studies of a plan for that
purpose will be undertaken.
3.19      The project includes technical assistance to develop the master
plan, for the review and completion of designs for flood control for the
lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin rivers and for the irrigation recon-
naissance and feasibility study of the 20,000 ha area. However, assurances
have been received from GOI that completion of the flood control designs and
initiation of the feasibility study would be contingent upon Bank approval,
following completion of the review and reconnaissance activities respectively.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.20      Cipamingkis.  The subproject area will be supplied by direct diver-
sion from the Cipamingkis River. As river runoff records at the diversion
site are available for only a short period of time, the flows in the river
have been determined by correlation with data from the adjacent Ciliwung
River. Reliable precipitation and discharge records for this river estab-
lished runoff coefficients for the region which, together with recent limited
data for discharge and precipitation for the Cipamingkis basin, established
estimated average monthly flows at the diversion site. Approximately
49 years of record were utilized to establish the average monthly flows.
In computing water availability, average monthly flows with 80% reliability
have been used.
3.21      The consumptive crop-water requirements for the proposed cropping
pattern were determined by using the Hargreaves method which has been espe-
cially adapted for use in Indonesia and adopted by the DGWRD for general use.
The projected cropping calendar is shown in Figure 5.1. The effective
rainfall has been established as the 80% probability of monthly precipitation
at Cibarusa which is centrally located in the project area. An overall
efficiency of 60% in water use has been assumed. The water balance compu-
tation is presented in Table 3.1. Adequate water supplies are available in
all months except September. However, deficiencies in that month are only 8%
of the total water requirement. Planting of rice and other crops will be
staggered to accomodate to the available water supply. During the dry season
the paddy area will be limited to about 2,000 ha. Secondary (palawija) crops
with low water requirements, short growing season and for which a ready
market exists in Jakarta have a good potential as substitute crops for
rice.
3.22      Because the project would not include storage, there will of course
be years with more severe shortages than shown in Table 3.1. However, in



- 15 -
4 out of 5 years, the water supply will be greater. Under the assumed
cropping pattern, the maximum diversion requirement would occur in December
when approximately 2.2 cu m/sec would have to be diverted from the available
supply of about 5.4.
3.23      Jragung Dam.  Water supply for this subproject would come from
three sources: the Jragung River, transbasin diversion of up to 6.5 cu m/sec
of surplus flow from the Tuntang River to Jragung Reservoir, and diversion of
additional irrigation water in the wet season to the Jragung irrigation area
through the Glapan weir. Diversion from the Tuntang River would be through a
one kilometer concrete lited tunnel.
3.24      In addition to providing a full dry-season irrigation supply for
8,700 ha, the total project would also include the provision of 63 MCM of
water annually to supplement the existing municipal water supply for Semarang.
3.25      Both the Jragung and the Cipamingkis rivers at the respective
points of diversion have water of excellent quality for irrigation. For
municipal and domestic purposes, the water from Jragung Dam would require
only some continuous chemical treatment such as clorination and filtration to
remove suspended sediments during flood periods.
Status of Engineering
3.26      Cipamingkis.  Aerial surveys and topographic mapping of the area is
currently underway and is scheduled for completion in 1978 with assistance
provided under Loan 1268-IND. Detailed design of the Cipamingkis weir, and
the primary and secondary canal system has been essentially completed by the
Planning and Design Staff of the Authority. Field surveys have been com-
pleted and were utilized for site specific design and quantity estimates.
Foundation drilling and material investigations at the weir have also been
concluded. Design of the tertiary system would be accomplished by the staff
of the authority.
3.27      Jragung Dam.  For the initial stage proposed for construction in
this project, detailed designs and construction drawings for the diversion
tunnel are essentially completed. The same documents for the access road and
base camp are scheduled for completion in June 1978. Detailed design of the
dam is scheduled for completion in March 1979. A number of geologic faults
have been located and investigated at the damsite. None of them show any
recent displacements. Extensive analyses have also been made of possible
earthquake effects. Studies of these factors indicate that the dam and
appurtenant structures are geotechnically feasible. The characteristics
of the site will be taken into consideration in the preparation of final
designs.
Implementation Schedules
3.28      The project would be implemented over a period of 4 years, during
which the second stage of the Jragung Dam subproject would be initiated,



- 16 -
possibly under a future loan. The schedules for each of the project construc-
tion components are presented in Figure 3.1.
Cost Estimates
3.29      Total project cost is estimated to be US$47.4 million of which
US$26.9 million (57%) is the foreign exchange component. Because of the tax
exempt status of the implementing agencies, the costs do not include provi-
sion for local, provincial and national taxes. Unit prices are based upon
recent contract prices for similar works in Java. The base cost estimate is
expressed in mid-1978 prices. Physical contingencies of 25% have been
applied to the civil works and right-of-way costs for the Cipamingkis sub-
project and the Hydrologic Measurement Program due to the amount of work that
has not been carried to the detailed design stage. Although detailed design
for the preliminary works at Jragung Dam have been completed, the uncertainty
of tunneling dictated that a contingency factor of 40% be utilized for that
work, and 15% for the access road and base camp. Contingencies of 10% and
20%, respectively have been applied to the costs of vehicles and equipment,
and services. Expected price increases over the implementation period total
about 26% of the base cost estimate plus contingencies assuming the following
calendar year inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1978  1979  1980  1981/82
Civil Works                          14    12    10      8
Equipment and Services                8      8     8     7
Details of the cost estimates are contained in Annex 1 and are s-ummarized in
Table 3.2. The total project cost for Jragung Dam, including the second
stage and expected price increases, are also presented in Annex 1.
3.30      Engineering and administration costs amount to about 5% of the base
cost estimate. Costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts
signed in Indonesia for similar services with local and foreign firms. The
direct costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas allowance and company
overhead and fee) amount to about US$6,500 per man-month. Including indirect
costs (travel, housing, office and miscellaneous expenses), the total cost
would be about US$8,000 per man-month. Total costs of local consultants would
be about US$1,200 per man-month.
Financing
3.31      The proposed loan of US$31.0 million would finance about 65% of
the total project cost and would cover the full foreign exchange costs
(US$26.9 million), and US$4.1 million of local costs. GOI would provide
the remaining Rp 6,810 million (US$16.4 million) to the executing agencies
out of annual budget appropriations.



- 17 -
Procurement /1
3.32      Of the 56 vehicles to be acquired under the project, a total of 27
will be required for use by consultants and will be procured by coirretitive
means other than ICB (10 for start-up - to be purchased locally through the
consultants services category - and 17 through international shopping). All
the remaining vehicles, as well as equipment for construction and operational
purposes (US$2.8 million), would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines. A preference
equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of the imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Vehicles for consultants and items of equipment costing
less than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$400,000, which are not
suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal GOI procedures, which have
been found acceptable to the Bank. There are sufficient suppliers of such
goods to ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and equipment
exceeding US$100,000 in estimated value would be submitted to the Bank before
bidding and award.
3.33      Construction of the major works for the Cipamingkis subproject,
including the weir, primary and secondary canals and structures, roads,
and drainage systems (US$11.8 million), and the initial works for Jragung
Dam (US$5.5 million) may be of interest to international contractors.
Contracts for these works would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works con-
tracts at Cipamingkis would be packaged into about three contracts and for
Jragung into about two contracts. Qualified local contractors would be given
a preference of 7-1/2% in evaluation of bids.
3.34      The remaining civil works for Cipamingkis (US$4.8 million), involv-
ing small-scale construction activities (tertiary development, offices and
housing) scattered over a wide area, and the construction of measurement
stations at almost 200 locations throughout Indonesia for the Hydrologic
Measurement Program (US$2.0 million), would not be of interest to international
contractors. These works would be carried out following local competitive
bidding or, in the case of tertiary and quaternary canals and drains, through
the INPRES rural works program. While local contracting procedures have been
reviewed under earlier projects and are acceptable to the Bank, assurances have
been obtained from GOI that: (a) to avoid late construction starts during the
dry season, bids could be received and processed without waiting for the
project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed, but contract award and
execution would be deferred until after the DIP is approved; and (b) price
escalation clauses which are not normally provided in local civil works
contracts would be included in contracts extending beyond one year. For civil
works contracts estimated to cost US$1 million and above, documents would be
submitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 18 -
escalation clauses which are not normally provided in local civil works
contracts would be included in contracts extending beyond one year. For civil
works contracts estimated to cost US$1 million and above, documents would be
submitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
Disbursements
3.35      Disbursements would be at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of training and directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, 65% for locally
procured imported equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expendi-
tures for locally procured vehicles. Disbursements for both foreign and
local consultants would be at 100% of total expenditures to encourage the use
of local consultants and to enable the executing agencies to engage consul-
tants expeditiously, since prior budgetary allocations would not be needed.
For civil works contracts, excluding tertiary networks, disbursement would be
made at a rate of 70% of total cost. For tertiary construction, disburse-
ments would be made against 100% of the cost of structures, but no disburse-
ments would be made for earthworks. Disbursement for tertiary structures
would be made only if the withdrawal application is accompanied by a certif-
icate from the site engineer stating that the tertiary and quaternary canals
and drains in the tertiary block had been completed. The estimated schedules
of expenditures, disbursements, and allocation of the loan proceeds are
presented in Annex 1. It is proposed to provide US$500,000 of retroactive
financing to provide for a review of plans for flood control on the Cimanuk,
Gipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers to be accomplished prior to loan signing, and
for the services of the expert on river control and management.
Accounts and Audits
3.36      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the imple-
menting agencies would: (a) maintain separate accounts for this project,
(b) engage auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (c) submit audited financial
statements, along with the auditors comments and opinions to the Bank within
six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
3.37      During construction of the proposed Cipamingkis irrigation system
there would be a temporary disruption and scarring of the right-of-way of
canals and the weir site. This would be short lived and not cause any major
nonreversible impacts upon the environment. For the Jragung subproject the
work proposed would have a similarly temporary environmental impact over a
considerably smaller area. However, the second stage involving the contruction
of the dam would permanently inundate about 600 ha of land.
3.38      There are no known unique environmental factors in any of the areas
affected by the project. None of the project areas have endemic schistoso-
miasis or malarial problems and none would be induced due to project activi-
ties. The impact upon the human environment would be positive. In their use
of pesticides farmers would have to exercise care not to contaminate fish or
domestic water supply.



Table 3.1: CIPAMINGKIS SUBPROJECT WATER BALANCE
Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr      May      Jun      Jul      Aug      Sep      Oct      Nov      Dec
31      28       31       30       31       30       31       31       30       31        30      31
Potential Evapotranspiration          mm    66.5    62.7    72.4    83.7    84.4    95.6    96.9   114.6   108.2   110.0    90.5    74.0
Crop Coefficient (Rice)
Area A                                     1.19    0.66        -        -        -        -        -        -        -      0.91     1.14    1.28
Area B                                     1.28    1.19    0.66         -        -        -                 -                 -      0.91    1.14
Area C                                                       0.91     1.14    1.28    1.19    0.66          -        -        -        -        -
Consumptive Use                       mm
Area A                                    79.1    41.4         -        -        -        -        -        _        _   100.1   103.2    94.7
Area B                                    85.1    74.6    65.9          -        -        -        -        -        -        -    82.4    84.4
Area C                                                      65.9    95.5   108.0   113.8         64.0       -        -        -        -        -
Land Preparation & Nursery             mm
Area A                                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    52.5   127.5          -        -
Area B                                       -        -        -        -        _        _        _        _        -    52.5   127.5          _
Area C                                             52.5   127.5         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Percolation                           mm
Area A                                    31.0    28.0         -                                                  90.0    62.0    60.0    62.0
Area B                                    62.0    28.0    31.0          - -           -        -        -            -    93.0    60.0    62.0
Area C                                             84.0    62.0    60.0    62.0    30.0    31.0             -        -        -        -        -
Effective Rainfall                    mm   232.0   194.0   207.0   204.0   126.0    16.0    80.0    32.0    76.0   172.0   203.0   103.0
Irrigation Requirement                mm
Area A                                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    66.5   117.6          -    53.7
Area B                                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    66.9    43.4
Area C                                       -        _    48.4         -    44.0   127.8       15.0        -        -        -         -        -
Water Requirement
Area A                             MCM       -                 -                 -        -     _                  1.928   3.410        -     1.551
Area B                            MCM        -                 -                 - _-                   -            -        -      3.144   2.040
Area C                            MCM        -        -      0.968      -      0.880   2.556   0.300                 -         -        -        -
Total         MCM        -        -      0.968      -      0.880   2.556   0.300        _      1.928   3.410   3.144   3.597
Total /a  cu m/sec       -        -      0.60       -      0.55    1.64    0.19         _      1.24    2.12    2.02    2.24
Available Supply                  cu m/sec   8.00    8.37    8.28    9.09    5.00    2.09            1.77   0.73       1.14    2.64    4.50    5.41
Water Balance                     cu m/sec      +         +        +        +        +       +         +        +    -0.10        +        +        +
Shortage (%)                                     -        -        -        -        -       -         -        -      8          -
/a Conversion includes factor for 60% overall efficiency.
Note:  Area A is early wet-season rice on 2,900 ha.  Area B is late wet-season rice on 4,700 ha.  Area C is dry-season rice on 2,000 ha.
Secondary dry-season crops will be grown on 3,000 ha utilizing residual moisture.



Table 3.2: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange
- --- (Rp million) ----         ---- (US$ million) ----         (%)
Cipamingkis Subproject                             3,460    3,380    6,840            8.2       8.3      16.5        50
Jragung Subproject - 1st Stage                     1,070    1,250    2,320            2.6       3.0       5.6        52
Hydrologic Measurement Program                       620    1,580    2,200            1.4       3.9       5.3        74
Cimanuk River Water Management Program               370    1,240    1,610            0.9       3.0       3.9        79     o
Base cost estimate                           5,520    7,450   12,970           13.1      18.2      31.3        58
Physical contingencies                             1,260    1,470    2,730            3.0       3.6      6.6         55
Expected price increases                           1,830    2,110    3,940            4.4       5.1       9.5        54
Total project cost                           8,610   11,030   19,640           20.5      26.9      47.4        56



- 21 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      Four separate entities will be responsible for the implementation
of the various parts of this project. As the Cipamingkis subproject area
falls within the Jatiluhur Region, it would be implemented by the Jatiluhur
Authority, a semi-autonomous Government corporation under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry. The Jatiluhur Authority is
presently entirely responsible for the execution of two Bank-assisted projects
(Credits 195 and 514-IND) and for a portion of another (Loan 1268-IND).
Works on Credit 195-IND will be completed this year; most of the main contracts
under Credit 514-IND have been or will shortly be awarded; and works under
Loan 1268-IND, mainly the construction of tertiary systems, are scheduled to
be completed by mid-1979. The Authority is well managed and, based upon its
success in implementing the ongoing projects, should have no difficulty in
executing the works proposed under this project.
4.02      The Jragung dam subproject would be managed by PROSIDA, an executive
body within the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD),
which has been the executing agency for most components of the remaining
Bank Group-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia. Since its establishment
in 1969, PROSIDA has demonstrated an increasing capability to plan and execute
irrigation projects and has gained the reputation of being one of the most
efficient construction agencies in the Indonesian government. The capability
of PROSIDA to successfully carry out its responsibilities under this project
has been established by prior performance.
4.03      A new executive body, Proyek Hidrologi, is in the process of being
established to implement the Hydrologic Measurement Program. While organiza-
tionally distinct from the existing Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
(DPMA), Proyek Hidrologi would share its management, facilities and most of
its staff with DPMA. The Director of DPMA would become jointly General
Manager of Proyek Hidrologi and the head of the Subdirectorate for Hydrologic
Services in DPMA would become jointly the Deputy General Manager. DPMA is
located in Bandung, West Java. Its headquarters and laboratory facilities are
modern and efficient and it has been operationally and institutionally streng-
thened by bilateral assistance as well as a UNDP-assisted project (para. 3.09).
It is the principal hydraulic engineering organization under the DGWRD but
funding constraints have limited its ability to establish and maintain measure-
ment stations to provide adequate hydrologic data and to effectively analyze
and publish the hydrologic data that it does collect. With the assistance of
advisers, to be engaged under the project, the reorganized DPMA staff would be
capable of implementing the project and operating the systems to be established
in an efficient manner.
4.04      The creation of a new executive body to implement this component has
been taken as the only practical solution to the constraints faced by the
DGWRD in modifying its organizational structure to cope with an expanding
program of work and in attracting and retaining staff of the necessary calibre.
Executive bodies can be established by the Minister of Public Works (whereas
establishment of a new Directorate or Subdirectorate would require the assent



- 22 -
of the President, a very time-consuming procedure). The Minister can also
establish terms and conditions of employment within executive bodies above the
level obtaining in the line agencies and thereby attract and retain the
skilled staff needed for complex projects such as this. By the use of joint
appointments, such as those described above for Proyek Hidrologi, the flow of
information and the coordination of work assignments between the executive
bodies and the line agencies can be maintained. The DGWRD recognizes that the
establishment of new executive bodies, in addition to those now existing, is
not an optimal organizational arrangement. Discussions are continuing within
the Government and with the Bank on an organizational structure which would,
among other things, provide for the greater integration of activities under
Bank Group-assisted projects with those of the DGWRD as a whole.
4.05      Execution of the Cimanuk River Management Program would also be
entrusted to a new executive body, for the reasons that have just been
discussed above. Proyek Cimanuk is being established using the same management
and largely the same staff as the line agency, the Directorate of Rivers
(DOR), which has been handling the planning and design of flood control works
in the Cimanuk basin up to now. DOR is a well-established agency with respon-
sibility for flood control and sediment control in natural and manmade channels
throughout Indonesia. With the consultant and advisory assistance to be
provided under the project, the reorganized DOR staff would be capable of
implementing the Program.
4.06      Organization charts for the Directorate-General of Water Resources
Development and the three implementing agencies under its jurisdiction are
shown in Figures 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4. The organization of the Jatiluhur
Authority is presented in Figure 4.5. Assurances have been obtained that the
Government would, before making any new appointment to the position of
President Director of the Jatiluhur Authority or of the General Manager of
PROSIDA, Proyek Hidrologi or Proyek Cimanuk, inform the Bank of the names,
qualifications and experience of the persons considered for such appointment
and would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Government on the qualifications and experience of such persons; and also,
that the Government would cause the above agencies to be adequately staffed
at all times with competent and qualified personnel.
Consultants, Advisors and Training
4.07      The project includes assistance for the funding of consultants to
complete detailed designs, prepare construction drawings and tender documents
and to supervise construction for the Cipamingkis subproject. GOI has
indicated that it intends to utilize Nippon Koei Co. (Japan), which is
presently engaged by the Jatiluhur Authority for ongoing work related to
Cipamingkis for the above-mentioned work. For the Jragung Dam, detailed
designs will be completed by consultants financed by USAID. GOI intends to
engage the same consultants (ECI) to supervise construction of the initial
phase works included in this project. An additional adviser would be recruited
to advise the Provincial Director of Public Works on the coordination of
activities in the Jratunseluna area.



- 23 -
4.08      For the Hydrologic Measurement Program, two hydrologists and one
hydrometeorologist would be engaged as advisers for a three-year period. An
advisor on sedimentation laboratory equipment and operation would be engaged
for 18 months and one on hydrometric automatic data processing equipment
operation for 6 months. For efficiency, cost effectiveness and coordination,
these advisors would be recruited from a consulting firm with the capability
to provide additional back-up assistance to the advisers.
4.09      For the Cimanuk River Water Management Program, consulting services
are provided for the preparation of the master plan and for the review and
completion of plans and designs for flood and sediment control on the lower
Cimanuk River below New Rentang Barrage and for the Cipanas and Ciwaringin
rivers. GOI has indicated that it intends to engage Snowy Mountains Engi-
neering Corporation (Australia) for these activities. In addition, a long-
term (two years) advisor on river control and management would be engaged
4.10      Engagement of all consultants and advisors would be on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, and assurances have been obtained from GOI
that consultants and advisors would be engaged by November 30, 1978. Con-
sulting services and training to be provided under the project are shown
below. Training would be provided through contractual arrangements with the
foreign consultants. It would include short-term academic training on spe-
cific project related activities and home office work-training assignments.
Details of the training activities would be identified following the engage-
ment of consultants.
4.11      An assurance has also been obtained that the Borrower would (a)
cause DGWRD to appoint a panel of consultants, whose qualifications and
experience would be acceptable to the Bank, to review the planning, design
and construction of Jragung Dam (and any additional dams as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank) throughout the period of planning, design
and construction of such dams, to ensure the quality of their designs and
safety; and (b) cause such panel to be consulted prior to the execution of
all major changes in the design or construction of any of the said dams.
Table 4.1: CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING
Field
Con-    investi-
Total sultants gations Training Foreign Local
-     …------ (US$ 000) ----------    (Man-months)
Cipamingkis                   900       800               100        95       -
Jragung Dam                   600       400      200        -        65       -
Hydrologic Measurement
Program                   1,500    1,200                300       140      15
Cimanuk River Water
Management Program        2,900    2,900                  -       280     300
Total                5,900    5,300       200      400      590      315



- 24 -
Agricultural Support Services
4.12      In order to attain the full future benefits of the proposed subproj-
ects, agricultural support services need to be strengthened in the project
areas. While this project does not contain assistance to any agricultural
support program, GOI has several ongoing programs which it would expand at
Cipamingkis and Jragung. The Bank is assisting GOI in upgrading some of
these programs, such as the extension service through Loan 1267-IND, the
Natonal Food Crops Extension Project (NFCE), and medium-term credit services
through Credit 480-IND, and the proposed Rural Credit Project. The Bank is
also discussing with GOI the introduction of several other programs to improve
agricultural supporting services, such as building village fertilizer stores,
upgrading the management and operation of farmer cooperatives, and a second
agricultural research project. Domestic fertilizer production would continue
to grow with assistance from the Bank Group (Credit 193-IND and Loan 1089-IND),
and the fertilizer distribution project (Loan 1139-IND) would aid fertilizer
distribution from the national to the district level.
4.13      The MOA, BRI and DGC would supply agricultural supporting services
in the project areas. The recently introduced NFCE project would intensify
and expand extension services by reorganizing and increasing the number of
field extension workers (PPL) to provide one for each 1,700 farm families.
The PPLs would be supervised by middle-level extension workers (PPMs), and
subject matter specialists (PPSs) at the district level would support and
train both the PPLs and PPMs. The PPSs would also conduct adaptive research
at the district and subdistrict levels. The BIMAS Secretariat, within the
MOA, would expand the BIMAS program (subsidized credit to cover seed, ferti-
lizers, pesticides, crop spraying and cost of living expenses) at both project
areas. BRI, which provides credit for the BIMAS program, would increase its
field staff at existing village unit offices, and where necessary, build and
staff new village unit offices. Besides providing farmers with production
credit through the village unit, BRI would also supply longer term credit
(three to five years) for the purchase of draft animals, ploughs and other
required farm equipment. Where necessary, the DGC would establish BUUD/KUDs
and village fertilizer stores (kiosks) to handle fertilizer and pesticide
distribution at the retail level. The BUUD/KUDs would be equipped with paddy
drying floors, grain warehouses, and rice milling facilities. By purchasing
paddy from farmers, they would also undertake their usual task of maintaining
GOI's paddy support price at the farm level.
4.14      At full development, demand for fertilizer would rise from its
current level of some 1,000 tons to 2,700 tons/year at Cipamingkis; and from
1,600 tons to 4,400 tons/year at Jragung. At present, farmers use mainly
urea (80%), and triple superphosphate (20%) and it is expected that this
ratio would continue under the project. While the existing fertilizer supply
channels could handle the increased demand, subdistrict roads would require
repairing and upgrading to help improve the distribution efficiency at the
village level. This would be done under the INPRES program. The annual
demand for certified rice seed would be 100 tons at Cipamingkis and 200 tons



- 25 -
at Jragung at full development. To meet these targets, the quality of local
seed growers' production would be upgraded under the provincial agricultural
service's ongoing work. After project completion, production credit require-
ments would also rise. At Cipamingkis, the annual project area short-term
production credit needs would be around Rp 350 million at Cipamingkis, and
Rp 560 million at Jragung. At present farmers receive estimated annual BIMAS
funds of Rp 160 million at Cipamingkis and Rp 25 million at Jragung. While
BRI would be able to supply these additional funds, it would have to increase
its field staff, and, particularly at Jragung, build and staff new village
units to handle the increased credit flows and avoid delays in processing and
issuing the credits. The BRI has been gradually improving its services to
farmers, and it is expected to continue doing this, and provide the addi-
tional field staff and facilities. To ensure that farmers' needs for advice,
credit, and agricultural inputs would be provided in the project areas,
assurances have been obtained that GOI would take the necessary steps to
ensure adequate and timely credit and other agricultural inputs (including
fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and certified seed) are made available at
the village level in the Cipamingkis subproject area and assist in the
provision of drying and storage facilities.
4.15      The extension service, in cooperation with the Provincial Irrigation
Services and Ministry of Home Affairs, would form farmer groups (water-user
associations) for extension, production planning, water management, and ter-
tiary and quaternary unit construction in each tertiary unit. The quaternary
unit, comprising some 20 to 40 farmers, would be the group's basic unit. As
they have been vital in synchronizing crop calendars and water supplies,
assurances have been obtained from GOI that a water-user association would be
formed for each tertiary unit in the Cipamingkis area to participate in the
unit's construction and to take over its operation and maintenance after
project completion.
Operation and Maintenance
4.16      The Jatiluhur Authority would be responsible for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the Cipamingkis subproject during construction. This
responsibility would continue for the weir and primary and secondary canals
following completion of construction, while the farmers would assume respon-
sibility for the tertiary system. Tertiary O&M would be accomplished
through the formation of water-user associations embracing tertiary blocks of
about 150 ha each. Farmers would pay about 50 kg of paddy/ha to fund the
full O&M costs of these systems. Operation of the Hydrologic Measurement
Program would continue to be the responsibility of DPMA.
4.17      As noted in Figure 4.5, the Jatiluhur Authority has a Division of
Operation and Maintenance. Field operations are divided into four geographic
districts, each headed by an O&M engineer. The maintenance section of the
O&M Division would be responsible for the upkeep of the weir and primary and
secondary canals including structures and embankments. Major repairs would
be carried out by contract.



- 26 -
4.18       Although there have been considerable improvements in 0&M services
in the completed and ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia,
there is still a need for more trained staff, as well as an increase in O&M
budgetary allocations. The amounts of O&M funds received in FY77/78 by the
various irrigation subprojects were in line with those agreed upon during
negotiations of Loans 1434/1435-IND, and at least half of the funds were
released by August 15, 1977. For FY78/79, GOI has increased the O&M alloca-
tion for rehabilitated systems from Rp 3,200 to Rp 3,500/ha, and is consider-
ing the implementing agencies' request for additional staff. Assurances
have been obtained from GOI that: (a) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep
pace with inflation and actual needs, would be allocated in future years for
all Bank-assisted irrigation projects; (b) GOI would take the necessary steps
to ensure that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to
the subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal quarterly
installments thereafter, until the total amounts are fully released; (c) to
upgrade the standard of 0&M services and to effectively utilize the available
funds, GOI would progressively increase the number of qualified O&M personnel
in the Bank-assisted projects until the additional numbers to be established
by GOI in consultation with the Bank are employed; (d) GOI would inform the
Bank by December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M personnel and
per hectare 0&M budget for each subproject; and (e) by June 1 of each follow-
ing year, it would submit the approved 0&M budget and by October 1, the
staffing provisions.
4.19       For the Hydrologic Measurement Program it is essential that the
measurement stations and equipment are properly and continuously operated and
maintained. Assurances have been obtained from GOI that adequate O&M staff
and funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and actual needs, would be
allocated in future years to continue the operation and maintenance of the
measurement stations.
Monitoring
4.20       A program to monitor benefits accruing from Bank-assisted irriga-
tion and drainage works, together with other social aspects, is currently
being implemented under Loan 1100-IND. As that program is expanded it would
include this project, with additional required funds provided under a subse-
quent Bank-assisted project. An assurance has been obtained that the Govern-
ment would ensure that the survey and evaluation of the economic and social
benefits of the project would be carried out by the survey and evaluation
services included in the Sixth Irrigation Project.



- 27 -
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would increase agricultural production by providing and
improving irrigation and drainage on 18,100 ha of paddy land. Secondary
crops would also benefit from the project. The changes are discussed under
the respective project areas.
Present Cropping Patterns
5.02      Cipamingkis.  Rice is the most important crop in the Cipamingkis
area. During the wet season, farmers grow irrigated paddy on 5,600 ha and
rainfed paddy on 2,000 ha. During the dry season they irrigate about 1,000
ha of paddy, and grow around 2,000 ha of secondary crop (palawija crop) Li on
residual moisture. Red peppers are the main palawija crop, grown on 1,500 ha.
The remaining 500 ha consists of a variety of crops such as soybean, corn,
groundnut and sweet potato, and in this report soybean has been used to
represent the group. The overall project area cropping intensity is about
139% per annum. Of the irrigated paddy area, about 500 ha is served by a
semitechnical system, while the balance is irrigated by small, nontechnical
(village) irrigation systems.
5.03      Wet season rice is grown between November and June.  Depending on
the start of irrigation supplies, farmers transplant over some 12 weeks
between November and early February. They harvest over ten weeks between
March and May. Farmers grow dry season paddy between April and September,
transplanting in April-May and harvesting in August-September. All rice is
transplanted from field nurseries onto previously puddled land. Palawija
crops are grown between March and October on dry season rainfall and residual
subsoil moisture from the preceding crop. While some small plots may be
hand irrigated, practically all palawija crops suffer moisture stress.
5.04      Farmers sow 40% HYV rice in the wet season and 70% in the dry
season. HYV are mainly Pelita 1/2 and some IR 20 and IR 26. Average wet
season rainfed paddy yields are 1.8 ton/ha, irrigated paddy 2.6 ton/ha, and dry
season irrigated paddy 1.7 ton/ha. Paddy yields are affected by poor water
management, inadequate dry-season water supplies and insufficient agricul-
tural input services. Average red pepper yields are 1.2 ton/ha and soybean
0.4 ton/ha. Insufficient water principally causes the low yields.
5.05      Jragung.  The Jragung project area is split between 7,600 ha the
reservoir would directly irrigate during the dry season; 1,100 ha, adjacent
to the 7,600 ha, which return flows would irrigate; and 1,800 ha of rainfed
land alongside the river banks which the reservoir would protect from wet
season flooding. During the wet season, farmers plant the entire 10,500 ha to
rice, of which 6,100 ha is rainfed and 4,400 ha is irrigated. No irrigation
water supplies are available during the dry season, and farmers grow about
4,500 ha of palawija crop on residual subsoil moisture. Tobacco, with
/1   Palawija crops are those other than rice, sugarcane and estate crops;
major ones are soybeans, corn, cassava, groundnuts, sweet potato, green
beans and vegetables.



- 28 -
2,500 ha planted, is the main palawija crop. The other 2,000 ha consists of
corn, sorghum, soybean, groundnuts and other crops, and, for this report, corn
has been used to represent them. Annual cropping intensities vary from 100%
on the 1,800 ha rainfed area to 152% on the balance of the project area. The
overall project area cropping intensity is 143%.
5.06      Wet season rice is grown from October to May and dry season from
March to August. Because of flooding during December to February, farmers who
occupy the 1,800 ha rainfed area may have to replant considerable portions of
their wet season crop. Farmers on the remainder of the project area may also
be flooded; however, works under Loan 1435-IND would alleviate this. All rice
is transplanted from field nurseries onto previously puddled land.
5.07      Farmers plant only local varieties on the 1,800 ha that are subject
to floods. On the remaining 8,700 ha they plant 40% HYV in the wet season
and 50% HYV in the dry season. Average wet season rainfed paddy yields are
1.4 ton/ha on the 1,800 ha; and on the remaining area it averages 1.6 ton/ha
while irrigated paddy averages 2.8 ton/ha. Average dry season tobacco yields
are 0.2 ton/ha (cut and dried leaf), and corn 0.8 ton/ha (dry kernel).
Future Cropping Patterns
5.08      Cipamingkis.  Without the project cropping patterns would change
little. Varietal improvement and slightly better farming practices would
increase paddy yields about 10% by 1987 so that wet season rainfed paddy would
average 2.0 ton/ha; irrigated paddy 2.9 ton/ha; and dry season irrigated paddy
1.8 ton/ha. As palawija crops are grown in the dry season on residual
moisture, their yields are not expected to increase.
5.09      Table 5.1 shows the expected changes in cropping patterns and pro-
duction with the project. During the wet season the entire 7,600 ha would
be irrigated paddy.  The dry season irrigated paddy crop would increase from
1,000 to 2,000 ha, and the area of palawija crop from 2,000 ha to 3,000 ha,
giving an overall annual cropping intensity of 166%.
5.10      Jragung.  Under Loan 1435-IND, PROSIDA is currently rehabilitating
and constructing the irrigation systems on the 7,600 ha served by the Jragung
main canal and the 1,100 ha return flow area. Consequently, even without the
project this area would be fully and efficiently irrigated during the wet
season. Although no dry season irrigation supplies would be available,
because of the larger wet season area irrigated, farmers would increase their
area of palawija crop grown from 4,500 ha to 6,000 ha. Wet season irrigated
paddy would average 4.0 ton/ha; dry season tobacco 0.25 ton/ha and corn 0.9
ton/ha. However, on the 1,800 ha currently flooded and growing rainfed paddy,
no change is expected in the cropping pattern or yields without the project.
The overall, annual project area cropping intensity would increase to 157%.
5.11      Table 5.1 shows the expected changes in cropping patterns and
production with the project. Although obtaining higher yields, farmers
would continue to grow rainfed rice on the 1,800 ha given flood protection.
Dry-season irrigation water from the Jragung reservoir would allow farmers to



- 29 -
irrigate a dry season paddy crop on the 8,700 ha service and return flow
areas. Assuming that management problems may restrict the dry season crop to
95% of the area (8,300 ha), the annual cropping intensity for the 8,700 ha
would be 195%, and for the overall project area 179%.
Future Yields With Project
5.12      With good water management, control and distribution, a strengthened
and improved extension service, and adequate credit and input supplies, the
estimated average future crop yields at full project development would be as
follows:
ESTIMATED FUTURE YIELDS WITH PROJECT
Wet season                  Dry season
Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated   Red
paddy      paddy         paddy    pepper  Soybean
-------------------- (ton/ha) -------------------
Cipamingkis                        -         4.2           4.2      1.8       0.6
Jragung                          1.9         4.0           4.3        -         -
The projected yields would be achieved five years after the introduction of
water or completion of construction, rehabilitation or drainage works. The
improved yields would be contingent upon the use of HYV rice varieties, cer-
tified seed, and heavier fertilizer and crop protection input in the project
areas. The introduction of the National Food Crops Extension Project to the
project areas would play a key role in the organization of farmer groups for
extension, crop production, and water management. The forming of the groups
would help in synchronizing cropping patterns and calendars with projected
water deliveries, increasing contact between individual farmers and govern-
ment programs, and ensuring better use of resources and inputs available to
each farmer.
5.13      Present and future crop areas, yields and total production for each
project area are shown in Table 5.1. At full project development, about
six years after completion of project works, annual total paddy production
would reach 114,200 tons compared to 41,700 tons at present.
Cropping Calendars
5.14      Figures 5.1 and 5.2 show the proposed cropping calendars for
paddy and secondary crops in the project areas. With the improvement and
extension of irrigation and drainage facilities, paddy and other crops can be
planted at the correct time, avoiding yield reductions due to planting out of
phase and interference with the following crop. Apart from climate, the
proposed cropping calendars have also taken into account the peak labor
demands for each of the field operations.



- 30 -
Drying, Storage and Processing
5.15      Farmers sun-dry paddy on the roadside and in house yards and store
it in their houses. Insufficient concrete drying floors makes drying of the
wet-season crop difficult and losses from rainfall can be considerable.
The DGC is helping to overcome this problem by providing loans to BUUD/KUDs
to install drying floors (para. 4.13). The project areas have more than
sufficient milling capacity to handle current production. Besides numerous
private mills, farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs) own three in Cipamingkis and
six in Jragung. Future increases in demand for milling capacity can be
readily met, either by private capital or the BUUD/KUDs. Most rice milled
is medium grade, around 35% broken.



- 31 -
Table 5.1: CROPPING PATTERNS AND PRODUCTION
Present        _        Future without project         At full project development /a
Area    Yield    Production   Area    Yield    Production   Area             Yield       Production
(ha)   (ton/ha)   ('000 ton)   (ha)   (ton/ha)   ('000 ton)   (ha)          (ton/ha)    ('000 ton)
-------------------------------------- Cipamingkis --------------------------------------
Wet season
Rainfed rice                   2,000      1.8         3.6       2,000    2.0             4.0          -         -             -
Irrigated rice                5,600       2.6        14.7       5,600    2.9           16.2      7,600         4.2          31.9
Subtotal                   7,600                             7,600                            7,600
Dry season
Irrigated rice                 1,000      1.7         1.7       1,000    1.8            1.8      2,000         4.2           8.4
Red pepper                     1,500      1.2         1.8       1,500    1.2             1.8     2,000         1.8           3.6
Soybean /b                       500      0.4         0.2         500    0.4            0.2      1,000        0.6            0.6
Subtotal                   3.000                            3,000                             5,000
Annual summary
Paddy                          8,600       -         20.0       8,600      -           22.0      9,600          -           40.3
Red pepper                     1,500       -          1.8       1,500      -             1.8     2,000          -            3.6
Soybean                          500       -          0.2         500      -            0.2      1,000         -             0.6
Total cropped area        10,600                            10,600                           12,600
Cropping intensity (%)       139                               139                              166
---------------------------------------- Jragung --------------------------------------…
Wet season
Rainfed rice I /c              1,800      1.4         2.5       1,800    1.4            2.5      1,800         1.9           3.4
Rainfed rice II                4,300      1.6         6.9           -      -             -            -         -             -
Irrigated rice                 4,400      2.8        12.3       8,700    4.0           34.8      8,700        4.0           34.8
Subtotal                  10.500                           10,500                            10,500
Dry season
Irrigated rice                     -       -           -            -      -             -       8,300        4.3           35.7
Tobacco                        2,500      0.2         0.5       2,500    0.25           0.6           -        -              -
Corn /d                        2,000      0.8         1.6       3,500    0.9            3.2           -        -              -
Subtotal                   4,500                            6.000                             8,300
Annual summary
Paddy                         10,500       -         21.7      10,500      -           37.3    18,800          -            73.9
Tobacco                        2,500       -          0.5       2,500      -            0.6          -         -              -
Corn                           2,000       -          1.6       3,500      -            3.2          -         -              -
Total cropped area        15,000                           16,500                            18,800
Cropping intensity (x)       143                               157                              179
/a  In 1987 for Cipamingkis and 1988 for Jragung.
/b  Represents a group of palawija crops, including soybean, corn, groundnut, sweet potato, other vegetables.
/c  Rainfed rice I    area presently flooded alongside Jragung river.
Rainfed rice II - area within 7,600 ha served by the Jragung main canal.
/d  Represents a group of palawija crops, including corn, sorghum, soybean, groundnut, vegetables.



- 32 -
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Market Prospects
6.01      Self-sufficiency in rice is a major Government goal.  Indonesian
rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for many decades. From
1969 to 1976, imports have ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million tons. However,
due to a poor domestic crop in 1977,/l recent dry weather, and a steadily
increasing population, imports have risen dramatically to around 2.5 million
tons for Indonesian FY77/78. While rice production grew by some 4.5% from
1969 to 1975 (from 11.7 to 15.5 million tons), production has stagnated
around 15.5 million tons for the last three years. Although the Government's
estimates of future demands suggest 0.6 million tons of rice imports would be
required in 1978, it now appears this figure would be considerably higher,
and substantial imports would continue to be required for many years. Thus
no difficulties are foreseen in marketing the additional 72,500 tons of paddy
from the project areas.
6.02      Much of the incremental rice production from Cipamingkis and
Jragung would be consumed at the farm level, while the surplus to local
requirements would be marketed in the Jakarta and Semarang urban areas
respectively. Palawija crop production would be marketed locally.
6.03      Farmers mainly sell their surplus paddy production through private
dealers and millers. The Government's rice procurement authority (BULOG/
DOLOG) maintains a floor price for paddy in the project areas, and the
BUUD/KUD, its purchasing agent in the villages, buys a standard grade of
paddy directly from farmers at a fixed price. The floor price is currently
Rp 70 (US$0.17)/kg for 14% moist paddy at the village. Although during
nonharvest periods, prices on the open market are usually higher than the
floor price, farmers are often forced to sell their paddy below the floor
price during the wet-season harvest. In some cases inadequate facilities
prevent paddy from being dried to the required 14% moisture content standard.
In other cases, BUUD/KUDs exhaust their credit lines from BULOG and are
unable to obtain cash to pay the farmers, who need cash immediately to meet
tax payments or to pay off the last season's debts so that they can purchase
inputs for the new season, and are then forced to sell their paddy on the
open market at a discount. Most farmers sell paddy with about 18-20% mois-
ture content and up to 10% impurities. Practically all farmers have to
sell some paddy immediately after harvest to meet their debts, even if later
they have to repurchase paddy for consumption. BULOG, through its subsi-
diary DOLOG, also maintains rice and paddy storages at the provincial level.
Farmers sell their palawija crop production in village and subdistrict
markets. Facilities at these markets are being upgraded where necessary
under the INPRES program. Some BUUD/KUDs are disseminating information on
market prices to their members.
/1 Dry-season harvest 1976, wet-season harvest 1976/77.



- 33 -
Prices
6.04      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued in mid-1978 prices. For rice, soybean, corn and
fertilizers, these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's
forecasts for world market prices, and adjusted for transportation costs.
The remaining crops and inputs not traded on the international market have
been expressed in terL. of actual farmgate prices averaged over three years
(1975-77) and adjusted for inflation. Only an estimated 10% of rice production
from the project areas would be milled into high-grade rice (5% brokens); 60%
would be medium-grade (25-35% brokens); and 30% would be low grade (42%
brokens). Using this quality mix and the world market price forecasts, the
equivalent economic farm-gate price for paddy would rise from US$146/ton in
1978 to US$187/ton in 1985 (in terms of mid-1978 constant dollars) in the
project areas. Historically, the Government has followed a policy of keeping
consumer food prices low by selling imported rice below its cost and keeping
domestic floor prices low. To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm
income, GOI has simultaneously subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. In the
last two years, however, GOI has substantially raised domestic paddy prices
to encourage rice production. This change in policy, combined with the fall
of world prices from the record levels of 1973-74, has brought farm-gate
prices fairly close to world market levels. Thus, the floor price for paddy
is now Rp 70/kg, as compared with an imputed economic price of Rp 76/kg.
Although with some fluctuations, GOI has similarly gradually reduced the
subsidies for fertilizers. GOI is expected to continue its efforts to align
domestic and world market prices, and consequently at full development,
economic and financial prices for inputs and outputs are assumed to coincide
at the Bank's forecasted world market prices.
6.05      Price structures for food crops and fertilizers are shown in
Table 6.1. Table 6.2 shows all prices used for the financial and economic
analyses.
Farm Incomes
6.06      For farm income analysis, farm models have been prepared for three
typical farm sizes (0.2, 0.5 and 1.2 ha) at Cipamingkis, and one farm size
(0.5 ha) at Jragung. Details are presented in Table 6.3. Although benefits
would not be generated at Jragung until construction of the dam, a farm model
has been constructed to show the expected benefits for the average size farm.
Land use and cropping patterns for the present conditions broadly reflect
averages for cultivated lands in the project areas. For the analyses,
soybean represents a composite grouping of secondary (palawija) crops such as
soybean, groundnut, corn, green beans and sorghum at Cipamingkis, while
corn represents the areas of a similar grouping of crops at Jragung. Farm
budgets are calculated according to cash flows. Labor costs include only
hired and harvest labor, not farm family labor, and were determined for
non-harvest periods by calculating the excess of total monthly labor require-
ments over an estimated 40 man-days of family labor per farm per month.
Hired farm labor is costed at Rp 350/day at Cipamingkis and Rp 300/day at
Jragung. Average annual land taxes (IPEDA) at present are Rp 7,000/ha at



- 34 -
Cipamingkis and Rp 4,000 at Jragung. Without the project they would remain
at the same level at Cipamingkis, but because of ongoing work at Jragung
under Loan 1435-IND they are expected to reach about Rp 10,000/ha.  At full
development they would reach an estimated Rp 13,000/ha at Cipamingkis and
Rp 14,000/ha at Jragung. With the project, farmers would also contribute
Rp 4,000/ha (some 50 kg of paddy/ha) for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary
irrigation units.  Sharecropping is extensive in both subprojects, and farm
incomes have been calculated for both owner-operators and sharecroppers.
Except for the landlord paying the land tax, and the sharecropper and his
family providing the labor, the landlord and sharecropper equally divide
gross production less harvesting and other production costs.  Farm families
in all areas also earn considerable off-farm income from either skilled
(carpentry, stone masonry, local public official) or unskilled work, and from
roadside trading.  Based on farmer interviews in the project areas, off-farm
family earnings have been estimated for the present and for the future with
the project.
6.07      At Cipamingkis, the smallest farm (0.2 ha) is assumed already
entirely irrigated during the wet season and 20% of its area irrigated in
the dry season. The two larger farms are about 65% irrigated in the wet
season, but receive no irrigation water in the dry season.  Annual cropping
intensities, which increase with the project, are highest on the 0.2 ha farm,
and progressively fall for the other two farms.  At Jragung the model farm is
assumed half irrigated and half rainfed at present, but due to works under
Loan 1435-IND, becomes fully irrigated during the wet season in the without
project situation. The proposed project would supply dry season water, thus
considerably increasing the annual cropping intensity.
6.08      Table 6.3 shows the results of the farm budget analysis.  Between
now and full agricultural development of the project, net crop incomes would
grow at 10-12%/year at Cipamingkis and 5-6%/year at Jragung. Even allowing
for the additional costs of family farm labor and management (Table 6.4),
this indicates farmers would have sufficient financial incentive to achieve
the projected yields and cropping intensities.
6.09      Although comparisons of farm incomes based on farm budgets with
income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with
caution, they do present an approximation of the relative position of project
beneficiaries. Present per capita farm incomes in the project areas are
between US$35 and US$85, about 15-30% of the estimated 1978 per capita GNP of
US$275. Thus an estimated 90-95% of these families presently have annual per
capita incomes at or below the estimated absolute poverty level of US$95
(1975 prices). Providing the farm population remains constant, at full
project development in 1987 the projected per capita farm income is estimated
to range from US$55 to US$175, some 15-45% of the then per capita GNP. The
project would enable beneficiaries to slightly improve their income levels
throughout the economy. It would also raise some 30-35% of the farmers above
the absolute poverty level.



- 35 -
6.10      No reliable income data are available for the landless laborers who
live in the project areas. However, assuming two full-time workers per
family; an average wage rate of Rp 200/day; and 200 work days/year/worker,
the annual income of a landless family can be no more than Rp 80,000 or
US$195. bince employment opportunities are limited, many families probably
earn less. Benefits to accrue to landless laborers under the project are
discussed in para. 7.01.
Project Charges
6.11      Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) and, depending on the
intensity of on-farm irrigation development, water charges for the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation system below the secondary turn-out. IPEDA
is collected by village heads, and turned over to local and provincial adminis-
trations for use in public services. However, it can be considered a direct
project tax which contributes towards the operation and maintenance, plus
capital repayments, of the main irrigation system. Since IPEDA is assessed as
a percentage of the value of production, the amounts collected would increase
as crop yields rise in response to the project. A GOI interministerial
committee has recommended that part of this increase in IPEDA should be used
to cover annual operating and maintenance costs of the irrigation works that
were rehabilitated or constructed. Additionally, as a result of a recent GOI
decision to tie disbursements under its local infrastructure development
program (INPRES) to IPEDA collection performance, IPEDA collection rates have
improved markedly. At present up to 10% of the IPEDA collection is used for
O&M of the main and secondary systems. The Central Government, however,
provides the balance of funds, 90% or more, required for O&M of the main
systems.
6.12      Water-user associations at the tertiary canal level in Indonesia
have traditionally contributed a portion of their crop to the water master
(ulu-ulu), or he has received the use of an area of village rice land, in
payment for his services. As tertiary and quaternary canal and drain develop-
ment has occurred under Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the irrigators
have increased their contributions to cover all operation and maintenance
costs of the teriary/quaternary unit. The amount of this water charge varies
according to the degree of development of the tertiary unit. Present and
expected future levels of IPEDA and water charges are as follows in the two
subproject areas (in constant mid-1978 prices):



- 36 -
PROJECT CHARGES AVERAGED OVER SUBPROJECT AREAS
Present /a    With project /b       Increment
-…------------ (Rp/ha)/c ----------------
Cipamingkis
IPEDA                             7,000               13,000              6,000
Water charges                        500               4,000              3,500
Total                        7,500              17,000              9,500
Jragung
IPEDA                            10,000               14,000             4,000
Water charges                      3,000               4,000              1,000
Total                       13,000              18,000              5,000
/a  At Jragung these are the estimated IPEDA and water charges after full
development of Loan 1435-IND project works. At Cipamingkis, present and
future "without project" charges would remain the same.
/b With project refers to full agricultural development in 1986 at
Cipamingkis, 1987 at Jragung.
Ic In terms of constant mid-1978 rupiahs.
6.13      Assurances have been obtained that, following completion of the
Cipamingkis subproject, GOI would collect, in accordance with its laws and
regulations, the adjusted IPEDA based on the increased productivity of all
irrigated land rehabilitated and constructed under the project; amounts to be
collected would be sufficient to ensure sound O&M practices and to recover a
reasonable portion of the capital costs during the project's useful life,
taking into account farmers' incentives and capability to pay; and it would
submit to the Bank for review every two years the IPEDA rates collected for
different land classes.
6.14      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits under the project, cost and rent recovery indices
have been calculated. The cost recovery indices are 7% for Cipamingkis and
53% for Jragung. Rent recovery indices were calculated for owner-operators
and share croppers on 0.2, 0.5 and 1.2 ha farms at Cipamingkis, and on a 0.5
ha farm at Jragung. They indicate that at Cipamingkis owner-operators would
pay from 27% to 84% of their project rent in incremental project charges, and
share croppers from 9% to 31%; while at Jragung owner-operators on the
average size farm would pay 27% and share croppers 2%. Table 6.4 lists the
assumptions used in calculating the rent recovery indices.



- 37 -
6.15      Project charges are considered satisfactory in both the subproject
areas. Even though most owner-operators would have rent recovery indices
less than 50%, no increase is proposed in the projected land tax rate and
water charges farmers would pay under the project as some 90% of the project
area farmers would have per capita incomes below the critical consumption
level /1 at full project development. All farmers pay heavy local taxes.
Besides paying substantial total direct project charges (land taxes and
tertiary/ quaternary block O&M charges of Rp 17,000-18,000/ha), they would
pay at least 10% of their gross value of production in village taxes, as well
as contributing to the social life of the village through religious taxes,
compulsory feasts, and allowing all village members, if they wish, to partake
in the harvest of the farmer's paddy crop. The harvesters retain up to one
fifth of the crop as payment, a wage rate considerably higher than the
average market rate. Since even at full project development practically all
share cropper families would have per capita incomes below the critical con-
sumption level, the low rent recovery indices for this group are appropriate.
/1 Critical consumption level (CCL) is defined as the consumption level
at which the social value of an extra unit of consumption equals the
social value of an extra unit of public revenue. In Indonesia the CCL is
estimated to be at least two thirds of national GNP per capita.



- 38 -
Table 6.1: PRICE STRUCTURE FOR FOOD CROPS AND FERTILIZERS
Food crop &                                   1 9 7 8                 1 9 8 5
fertilizer prices                        '000 Rp/ton  US$/ton  '000 Rp/ton   US$/ton
Rice
Export price, Thai 5-42% broken mix, /a
f.o.b. Bangkok                           122.3        235        156.0          300
Ocean freight & insurance                    10.4         20         10.4          20
Port handling, storage, transport
to wholesaler                              4.2          8          4.2            8
Handling, transport mill to wholesaler   -2.6             -5         -2.6          -5
Rice price, ex-mill, project area           134.3        258        168.0         323
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)    84.5            163        105.5         203
Milling costs less value of by-product   -2.0             -4         -1.0          -2
Drying & cleaning                            -1.5         -3         -1.5          -3
Handling, transport farm to mill            -1.0          -2         -1.0          -2
Farm-gate paddy price /b                     80.0        154        102.0         196
(Financial farm-gate price) /c             (65.0)/d   (157)        (81.0)        (196)/e
Soybean
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf port          143.0         275        180.4         347
Ocean freight & insurance                    15.6         30         15.9          30
Port handling at Semarang                     3.6          7          3.7           7
Soybean price on trucks, Semarang          162.2        312        200.0          384
Transport wholesalers to wharf              -4.2          -8         -4.0          -8
Transport farm to wholesaler                -3.0          -6         -3.0          -6
Farm-gate price /b                         155.0        298         193.0         371
(Financial farm-gate price) /c            (130.0)      (313)      (154.0)       (371)/e
Corn
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf port           44.7          86         62.0         119
Ocean freight & insurance                     8.3         16          8.3          16
Port handling at Semarang                     3.1          6          3.1           6
Corn price on trucks, Semarang              56.1         108         73.4         141
Transport wholesalers to wharf              -3.9          -7         -3.4          -7
Transport farm to wholesaler                -2.2         -4         -2.0           -4
Farm-gate price /b                          50.0         96          68.0         131
(Financial farm-gate price) /c             (40.0)       (96)       (54.0)       (131)/e
Urea
World export price, f.o.b. /f               85.8        165        114.4          220
Ocean freight & insurance                     3.1          6          3.2           6
Handling, distribution to
retail level                              21.0         40         21.4          41
Transport BUUD/KUD kiosk to farm             1.1           2          1.0           2
Farm-gate price /b                         111.0        213        140.0         269
(Financial farm-gate price) /c             (71.0)      (171)      (112.0)       (269)/e
TSP
World export price, f.o.b.
Florida                                   61.4        118         90.0         173
Ocean freight & insurance                    11.4        22          11.2          22
Handling, distribution to
retail level                              21.1         41         20.8          40
Transport BUUD/KUD kiosk to farm              1.1          2          1.0           2
Farm-gate price /b                          95.0        183        123.0         237
(Financial farm-gate price) /c             (71.0)      (171)       (98.0)       (237)/e
/a  Assumed rice quality:  10% of production, 5% brokens; 60% medium grade,
25-35% brokens; 30% lower grade, 42% brokens. Assumed prices in 1985 (in
constant mid-1978 prices); 5% brokens, US$422/ton; 25-35 brokens, US$290/ton;
42% brokens, US$275/ton.
/b  At a shadow-priced exchange rate of Rp 520 = US$1.00.
/c  At the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00.
/d  Present financial price calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for
14% moisture content paddy Rp 70/kg; less Rp 1.5/kg drying and cleaning;
Rp 1/kg transport farm to BUUD/KUD; Rp 2.5/kg for market imperfections.
/e  In the future, distortions are assumed eliminated between internal and world
market prices.
/f  Urea is valued at ex-PUSRI factory, Palembang, IBRD world market price
projections for bagged urea f.o.b. Europe have been adjusted for South-East
Asia markets.



- 39 -
Table 6.2: INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICE SUMMARY
(Rp'000/ton)
1 9 7 8                 1 9 8 5
Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic
Crops
Rice                               65.0         80.0       81.0         102.0
Soybean                           130.0        155.0      154.0         193.0
Corn                               40.0         50.0       54.0          68.0
Red pepper                        300.0        300.0      300.0         300.0
Tobacco                           800.0        800.0      800.0         800.0
Fertilizer
Urea                               71.0        111.0      112.0         140.0
TSP                                71.0         95.0       98.0         123.0
Seeds
Rice - local                       65.0         80.0       81.0         102.0
HYV                       150.0        160.0      160.0         200.0
R.ed pepper                       300.0        300.0      300.0         300.0
Tobacco                           216.0        216.0      216.0         216.0
Soybeans                          130.0        155.0      170.0         220.0
Corn                               40.0         50.0       54.0          68.0
Other
Zinc phosphide                 2,300.0      2,700.0   2,300.0        2,700.0
Agrochemicals /a                  900.0     4,100.0       900.0      4,100.0
/a Rp/liter.



Table 6.3: SUMMARY OF FARM BUDGETS
Family        Crop income          Off-Farm income    Total farm income /a   Per capita income
Farm size         size       Present  Future /b    Present  Future    Present    Future             Present    Future
(ha)          (no.)      ------…-_-__--_-_-_-____-- (Rp'000) ----…-___U_------------             ---- (US$)…
Cipamingkis
0.2             5.5/c       35         95             70       70        105        165              45           70
5.5         15        50             70       70         85         120             35           55
0.5             5.5         95       235              60       50        155        285              70          125
5.5         50       120             60       50        110         170             50           75
1.2             5.5        155       380              40       20        195        400              85         175
5.5         80       190             40       20         120        210              55          90
Jragung
0.5             5.5        130/d    220               50       40        180        260              80          115
5.5         65/d    115              50       40        115         155             50           70
/a  All income data is rounded to nearest Rp 5,000 and US$5.00.
/b  Future represents at full project development in 1987 for Cipamingkis, and 1988 for Jragung.
/c  For each farm size the top data line refers to owner-operators, and the second to share-croppers.
/d  This figure refers to future without project, as due to an earlier Bank project (Loan 1435-IND), present
income would increase substantially.



Table 6.4: RENT RECOVERY
(Rp'000)
C  I  P  A  M  I  N  G  K  I  S                               J  R  A  G  U  N  G
0.2  ha farm                 0.5  ha farm              1.2  ha farm                  0.5 ha farm
Owner-op.  Share-crop.  Owner-op.  Share-crop.  Owner-op.  Share-crop.  Owner-op.  Share-crop.
A.  At Full Project Development
1. Incremental gross value of farm
production /a                                      66             33           152             76           259           130           127            64
2.    -  Less cash production costs /a                    13               7           31             16            74            44            36             18
3.    -  Equals net cash income                           53             26           121            60            185            86            91            46
4.    -  Less imputed family labor costs /b                6               6            16            16            25            25             6              6
5.    -  Less imputed farmer's management /c               3               2             8             4            13             7             6              3
6.    -  Less imputed return on own capital /d            13              -            26              -            42             -            25
7.    -  Less allowance for risk/uncertainty /e   13                       7           30             15            52            26            25             13
8.    -  Less general taxes /f                             7               3            15             8            26            13            13              6
9.    -  Less miscellaneous TR                             3               2             8             4            13             7             6              3
10.  Equals project rent                                    8              6             18            13            14             8            10             15
11.  Incremental - Water charges (O&M)                      1              0.5            2             1             4             2             0.5            0.25
12.                - Land tax (IPEDA)                       I              -              3             -             7             -              2
13.                - Total direct charges                   2               0.5           5             1            11             2              2.5           0.25     4
B.  Discounted Cash Flows Over Project Life /h
14.  Project rent                                          62               1.7        140            101           109            62            78            117
15.  Water charges                                          9               5            19             9            38            19              5             2
16.  Land taxes                                             8               -            23             -            54             -             16
17.  Total direct charges                                  17               5            42             9            92            19            21              2
18.  Rent recovery (%)                                     27              11            30             9            84            31             27             2
Farm income per capita at full development
(1987)(US$)                                              70             55           125            75            175            90           115             70
Absolute poverty (1975): US$95
GNP per capita (1978): US$275/i
/a  From Annex 2, Table 5.
/b  Wage rate Rp 350/day at Cipamingkis; Rp 300/day at Jragung.
/c  At 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/d  At 10% of farmer's own incremental capital.
/e  At 20% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/f  Village taxes, at 10% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/g  Storage losses, at 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/h  Net present value of project rent and incremental charges, which are discounted at 10% per year over the
project life (30 years).
/i  GNP per capita for 1977 of US$260 inflated by 6%.



- 42 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      By providing improved water control, distribution and drainage,
the proposed project would increase crop yields and production on 7,600 ha at
Cipamingkis. The project would directly benefit some 16,000 farm families or
some 88,000 people; and by providing additional employment opportunities,
indirectly benefit some 2,800 landless laborers' families, or 63,000 people.
By increasing crop production and the dry-season cropped area it would create
a demand for an additional 0.6 million man-days of farm labor per year, equiv-
alent to some 2,500 full-time jobs annually. Construction of the second
stage of the Jragung Dam would provide 63 MCM municipal and industrial water
supply for the city of Semarang and 30 GWh of hydroelectric power generation.
It would also increase crop yields on 10,500 ha and directly benefit 20,200
farm families or some 112,000 people; and by providing additional employment
opportunities of 0.9 million man-days of farm labor per year, indirectly
benefit 8,600 landless laborer families, or 48,600 people. The reservoir
would also reduce the rivers silt load by some 540,000 cu m annually, thus
reducing O&M costs in the irrigation area served by the Jragung main canal,
and the dredging of floodways at the river's mouth. Although not included in
the economic benefits, the project would considerably improve village water
supplies for domestic purposes throughout the project areas. It would also
support the Government's policies of reducing food grain imports and attain-
ing self-sufficiency in rice production.
7.02      Economic rates of return are presented for the proposed works at
Cipamingkis, and for the completed reservoir at Jragung, including the
hydropower generating facilities and urban water supply offtake, treatment
and distribution works. Although the project provides only for the construc-
tion of the access road and diversion tunnel at Jragung, the economic rate of
return has been calculated for the entire subproject to demonstrate its
economic feasibility. The proposed phasing of project works at Jragung
results from financial considerations, not from any logical physical separation
of project works into various stages.
7.03      Benefits.  Expected future crop yields and production with and
without the project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 presents the farm-
gate prices for inputs and outputs, based on the Bank's commodity price fore-
casts for rice, soybean and chemical fertilizers, and domestic prices for
other commodities. Annex 2, Table 3 gives the expected crop production costs
and labor requirement/ha; Table 7.1 shows the expected gross and net crop
returns/ha (without accounting for labor), the total expected agricultural
benefits at full agricultural development for the project areas, and sum-
marizes net agricultural benefits for each project area.
7.04      The hydropower installation at Jragung would assist Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (PLN), the national power company of Indonesia, meet the
existing demands of consumers in the city of Semerang, who at present exper-
ience frequent power black-outs and brown-outs during the year. The avail-
able supply of energy is already considerably less than the present demand,
the annual amount of power produced at Jragung is small compared to the total
annual demand in Central Java, and because the existing system has sufficient
capacity to handle the Jragung output, no investment has been allowed for



- 43 -
additional distribution facilities at the retail consumer level. The energy
has been valued at the estimated average consumer tariff of Rp 34.9/kWh /1
for 1978, less 10% transmission and 10% distribution losses, and the O&M
costs of generation, transmission and distribution. Transmission O&M has
been estimated at 1% of the capital cost of transmission, while the distri-
bution O&M has been estimated at Rp 0.5/kWh supplied to retail consumers.
7.05      Following feasibility studies of the alternative sources of munici-
pal and industrial water supply for Semerang, GOI has given priority to
Jragung reservoir (together with the development of the Muncul Springs and
groundwater sources) to meet increased demand up to around 1990. The reservoir
would supply an additional 63 MCM of water annually, and this has been valued
at Rp 91/cu m supplied to retail consumers. Although this is above the
existing tariff (Rp 43 cu/m), it corresponds to the tariff levels suggested
for new urban water supplies in the appraisal of the proposed Second Water
Supply Project. Health benefits, which would be extensive, have not been
quantified.
7.06      The reservoir would reduce silt deposition by an estimated 135,000
cu m per year in the floodways where the river enters the sea. Average
dredging costs are Rp 700/cu m, and benefits from reduced dredging are
estimated at Rp 94.5 million annually. Other benefits from reduced siltation
are expressed in lower O&M costs for the Jragung main canal service area.
7.07      Foreign Exchange.  Due to the existence of import taxes, quanti-
tative restrictions and export subsidies, the official exchange rate of
Rp 415 = US$1.00 does not represent the true value to the economy of foreign
exchange used in carrying out the project, and savings through increased
grain production. A standard conversion factor of 0.8 (Rp 520 = US$1.00)
was, therefore, used in the economic analysis.
7.08      Labor Pricing.  Because of the small average farm size (0.5 ha in
both project areas), and the large number of landless families whose major
income source is farm labor, considerable unemployment, and low productivity
employment, exists in the project areas.  Additionally, farm labor require-
ments are distinctly seasonal, with major demands occurring during the wet
season.  Even at full project development during the month of peak labor
requirement (wet-season harvesting, dry-season cultivation and transplant-
ing of rice), total labor utilization in agriculture would be only 43% at
Cipamingkis and 55% at Jragung. While the farm labor force tries to offset
this situation by doing considerable off-farm work, much of this is of
extremely low productivity. Thus farm labor was valued at a monthly shadow
wage rate. This varies seasonally, and based on experience in other compar-
able Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia, averages Rp 130/man-day
at Cipamingkis and Rp 140/man-day at Jragung over the year under "with
/1 Annex 8, Report No. 1638a-IND; Indonesia, Appraisal of the Seventh Power
Project.



- 44 -
project" conditions at full agricultural development, compared to a full
employment market wage of Rp 350/man-day at Cipamingkis and Rp 300/man-day at
Jragung. Table 7.2 shows the total monthly labor requirements for crops by
project areas. Since project construction work would employ many local
landless laborers, and to reflect the low productivity of much of their
existing work, unskilled labor used in civil works was valued at 50% of its
estimated actual cost for the economic analysis.
7.09      Investment Costs.  As calculated for the economic analyses and
expressed in mid-1978 prices, the total investment costs are Rp 9.40 bil-
lion /1 for Cipamingkis and RP 55.22 billion /2 for Jragung. Investment
costs are net of taxes and transfer payments. In determining their rupiah
value, foreign exchange costs were converted to rupiah using a standard
conversion factor of 0.8 (para. 7.07). Investment costs have been adjusted
to reflect the economic value of unskilled labor used in construction (civil
works reduced 10%, para. 7.08). Costs include physical contingencies, but
exclude price contingencies. Other investment costs included are the infra-
structure required for agricultural supporting services, such as paddy drying
floors, paddy and fertilizer storages at village level, BRI and BUUD/KUD
buildings, and BUUD/KUD equipment. Estimated incremental annual O&M costs
would vary from minus Rp 900 to Rp 3,500/ha for the main irrigation systems
and from Rp 1,000 to Rp 3,500/ha at the farm level. Estimated O&M of the
power generation is Rp 32 million per year /3, and estimated O&M of the
municipal and industrial water supply is Rp 1.45 billion per year /4.
7.10      Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedules (Figure 3.1), development would occur as follows:
Cipamingkis. The diversion weir would be completed in April
1982, and the 1982 dry-season crop would be the first grown under
upgraded conditions. All the service area would be completed
and ready for the 1982/83 wet season.
Jragung. Water storage would commence during the 1983/84 wet
season, and the 1984 dry season crop would be the first grown
under upgraded conditions. Power generation and urban water
/1 Includes Rp 0.05 billion for required infrastructure for agricultural
supporting services.
/2 This includes construction of the reservoir, the hydroelectric power
plant and transmission lines (Rp 26.37 billion); the municipal and
industrial water offtake, treatment, transmission and distribution works
(Rp 28.78 billion); and infrastructure for agricultural supporting
services (Rp 0.07 billion).
/3 This includes the hydroplant operation, and transmission and distri-
bution of the power.
/4 This includes water treatment costs; pumping from the treatment plant
to Semarang; and water distribution operations.



- 45 -
supply would also commence in 1984, with 50% of annual total
power and water supply benefits being realized that year.
Benefit flows would reach 100% for power in 1985; and for
water supply 67% in 1985, 83% in 1986, and 100% in 1987.
Beginning with the first crop grown under upgraded conditions, farmers would
achieve the projected yield levels over five years in equal installments.
Cipamingkis would reach full development in 1987 and Jragung in 1988.
7.11      Salvage Values.  At Jragung the economic life of several of the
structures would be considerably longer than the period over which the
economic analysis has been conducted (35 years). Thus salvage values equal
to 67% of the original cost of the dam, and 33% of the water treatment plant
were added to the flow of economic benefits in year 35.
7.12      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and dis-
counting project costs and benefits over 35 years the economic rates of
return are 13% for Cipamingkis, and 12% for Jragung (Table 7.3). The weighted
average "rate of return" for the entire project would be 12%.
7.13      Sensitivity Analysis.  During implementation the most likely
problems the project would encounter are construction delays and cost overruns.
Thus the sensitivity of the rates of return were tested to these variables,
including three and five year delays in the commencement of Jragung dam
construction, plus a 25% reduction in total benefits should farmers not
realize the projected commodity prices, cropping yields and/or intensities.
The following table shows the results of the analysis:
Parameter varied                         Cipamingkis    Jragung
…____ _ …(%) …_______
Base estimate                                    13             12
Construction cost increased by 20%               11              9
Commencement of dam construction
and benefit flow delayed:
three years                                   -             11
five years                                    -             10
Total benefits decreased 25%                     10              8
Total benefits increased 25%                     16              16
Under all adverse conditions tested, the economic rates of return fall below
12%, which demonstrates the need to keep costs and benefits at or near
present projections, and to keep to the proposed construction schedule. The
benefits estimated to flow from the proposed works at Jragung are contingent
upon the dam being constructed. However, in none of the cases tested would
the rate of return fall below 8%, while on the other hand, if the level of
benefits are 25% higher than forecasted, the rates of return would be around
25-33% higher.



- 46 -
7.14      Risks.  No major management or organizational problems are expected
in the implementation of the project. Rapid inflation over the last several
years led to sizeable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s.
Inflation is now more nearly under control, but provisions for price increases
are greater for this project and other projects recently financed by the Bank
than in earlier projects.



Table 7.1: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - NET VALUE OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AT FULL PROJECT DEVELOPMENT /a
Production
Farm-gate      Gross value   Production  Net value of  net value in   Imputed    Net benefit in
Area        Yield        price       of production        costs      production   project area  labor cost   project area
('000 ha)  (ton/ha)  (Rp'000/ton)   ------------- (Rp'000/ha) -------------  -------------- (Rp million) -------------
CipamingP is
Future Without Prolect
Wet season - Rainfed rice                     2.0         2.0           102             204              46           158            316
- Irrigated rice                  5.6         2.9           102             296              64          232           1,299
Dry season - Irrigated rice                   1.0          1.8          102              184             51           133             133
- Red pepper                      1.5         1.2          300              360              29          331             497
- Soybean                         0.5         0.4           193              77              13           64              32
Total                                                                                                           2.277             241             2.036
Cropping intensity:                           139
Future With Project
Wet season - Irrigated rice                   7.6         4.2           102              428             84           344          2,614
Dry season - Irrigated rice                   2.0         4.2           102              428             79           349             698
- Red pepper                      2.0         1.8           300             540              45          495             990
- Soybean                         1.0         0.6           193             116              21            95             95
Total                                                                                                            4.397             327            4.070
Cropping intensity:                           166
X-
Incremental Benefits from Project Area                                                                                               2.120               86            2,034
jragung
Future Without Prolect
Wet season - Rainfed rice I /b                1.8          1.4          102              143             31           112             202
- Irrigated rice                  8.7         4.0           102             408              79           329          2,862
Dry season - Tobacco                          2.5         0.25          800              200             74           126             315
- Corn                            3.5         0.9            68              61              25            36             126
Total                                                                                                            3505              432            3.073
Cropping intensity:                           157
Future With Project
Wet season - Rainfed rice I                   1.8          1.9          102              194              42          152             274
- Irrigated rice                  8.7         4.0           102             408              79           329          2,862
Dry season - Irrigated rice                   8.3         4.3           102              439             80           359           2,980
Total                                                                                                            6.116             569             5,547
Cropping intensity:                           179
Incremental Benefits from Project Area                                                                                                2.611             137             2.474
/a Full agricultural development occurs in 1987 at Cipamingkis, and 1988 at Jragung.
Rainfed rice I refers to the area which the project protects from floods.



- 48 -
Table 7.2: TOTAL MONTHLY CROP LABOR REQUIREMENTS
('000 man-days)
Area      Jan    Feb   Mar   Apr   May    Jun   Jul   Aug    Sep   Oct    NOv    Dec               Total
('000 ha)
Cipamingkis
Wet Season
Rainfed rice       P     2.0       64     56      18     40     38     20      -      -       -      -     40     64         340
W     2.0       64     56      18     40     38     20      -      -      -       -     40     64         340
Irrigated rice  P    5.6          196    185     73    157    106      56      -      -      -       -    112    179      1,064
W    5.6       207    196     84    168    118      56      -      -      -       -    112    179      1,120
W    7.6       266    274   266    266    205        -      -      -      -       -    152   243       1,672
Dry Season
Irrigated rice  P        1.0        -       -      -     20    43      42     20     30      25      -      -      -         180
P     1.0        -      -       -     20    45      45     22     33     25       -      -      -         190
W     2.0        -      -      20     84    110     60     60    106      -       -      -      -         440
Red pepper         P     1.5        -       -      -      -      -     45     30     30      45     45      -      -         195
W     1.5        -      -       -      -      -     45     30     30     45      45      -      -         195
W     2.0        -      -       -      -      -     60     50     40     60      70      -      -         280
Soybean            P    0.5         -      -      -       5     12      9      7    11       11      -      -      -          55
W    0.5         -      -       -      5     12      9      7     11      11      -      -      -          55
W     1.0        -      -      10     25    21      16     25     23      -       -      -      -         120
Total        P   10.6       260    241      91   222    199    172      57      71     81     45    152    243       1,834
W              271    252    102    233    213    175      59     74     81      45    152    243       1,900
W              266    274   296    375    336    136    135    169        60     70    152    243       2,512
Jragung
Wet Season
Rainfed rice I  P        1.8       68      59     22     36     34     18      -       -      -      -     40     65         342
W     1.8       68     59     22      36     34     18      -      -       -      -     40     65         342
w     1.8       54     47     21      36    40      21      -      -       -      -     40     65         324
Rainfed rice II P    4.3          129    103      39     86     82     43      -       -      -      -     94    155         731
Irrigated rice  P    4.4          145    132     57    119      84     44      -      -       -      -     97    158         836
w    8.7       287    278   305    305    235        -      -      -      -       -    191    313      1,914
W     8.7      287   278   305    305    235         -      -      -       -      -    191    313       1,914
Dry Season
Irrigated rice  W        8.3        -       -     83    349    456    249    249    440       -      -      -      -       1,826
Tobacco            P    2.5         -       -      -      -   125    110      45     83    125    137       -      -         625
W     2.5        -       -      -      -    125    110     45     83    125    137       -      -         625
Corn               P     2.0         -      -      -     20     38     18     32      32      -      -      -      -         140
W    3.5         -      -       -     35     66     32     56     56       -      -      -      -         245
Total        P   15.0       342    294    118    261    363    233      77    115    125    137    231    378        2,674
W   16.5       355    337    327    376    460    160    101    139    125    137    231    378         3,126
W   18.8       341    325   409    690    731    270    249    440         -      -   231    378       4,064



Table 7.3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Rp billion)
_ Capital cost    _            O&M costs                    Total                   Incremental prolect benefits
Year       Dam  Water supply   Irrigation  Power  Water supply   annual cost   Irrigation  Power  Water supply  Dredging   Total
Jragung
1    (1978)     0.48            0             0           0           0           0.48              0          0           0            0          0
2    (1979)     1.01            0             0           0           0           1.01              0          0           0            0          0
3    (1980)      1.09           0             0           0           0           1.09              0          0           0            0           0
4    (1981)     2.86         4.02              0          0           0           6.88              0          0           0            0          0
5    (1982)    4.69          7.59             0           0           0          12.28              0          0           0            0           0
6    (1983)     7.14         8.14             0           0           0          15.28           0.01          0           0            0       0.01
7    (1984)     6.82         3.48          0.07       0.01         0.75          11.13           0.51       0.47       2.87          0.05       3.90
8    (1985)     2.35         2.78          0.07       0.03         1.00           6.23           1.00       0.94       3.83          0.10       5.87
9    (1986)         0        2.78          0.07       0.03         1.20           4.08           1.50       0.94       4.79          0.10       7.33
10    (1987)         0           0          0.07       0.03         1.45           1.55           1.99       0.94       5.74          0.10       8.77
11-34 (1988-2011)       0           0          0.07        0.03        1.45            1.55          2.47       0.94        5.74         0.10        9.25
35    (2012)         0           0          0.07       0.03         1.45           1.55          18.18       0.94        7.69         0.10      26.91
Economic rate of return:                                                                                                                             12%
Incremental
project
Year    Capital        O&M         Total    benefits
Cipamingkis
1    (1978)    0.99             0          0.99           0
2    (1979)    2.25             0          2.25           0
3    (1980)    2.73             0          2.73           0
4    (1981)     2.42            0          2.42           0
5    (1982)     1.01         0.04          1.05       0.22
6    (1983)         0        0.05          0.05       0.63
7    (1984)         0       0.05           0.05       1.03
8    (1985)         0        0.05          0.05       1.44
9    (1986)         0        0.05          0.05       1.84
10-35 (1987-2012)       0        0.05          0.05        2.03
Economic rate of return:                                   13%



- .50 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a) GOI would proceed with the construction of Jragung Dam in accord-
ance with a time schedule to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank to ensure the full realization of benefits contemplated by the
inclusion of preliminary works in this project (para. 1.22);
(b) prior to the initiation of feasibility studies for the 20,000 ha
irrigation area, and the detailed designs of flood control plans
for the lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin rivers, the Borrower
shall obtain the approval of the Bank (para. 3.19);
(c) to minimize late construction starts requiring some financing by
the GOI, invitations to bid would be issued as bid documents are
completed, and bids would be received and processed without waiting
for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed, but
contracts would be awarded only after the DIP is approved; and
price escalation clauses would be included in local civil works
contracts extending beyond one year (para. 3.34);
(d) the Jatiluhur Authority, PROSIDA, Proyek Hidrologi and Proyek
Cimanuk each would: (i) maintain separate accounts for the
project; (ii) engage auditors aceptable to the Bank to audit these
accounts; and (iii) submit to the Bank audited financial statements
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, together with the
auditor's comments and opinions (para. 3.36);
(e) GOI would consult with the Bank before appointing a replacement
for the President Director of the Jatiluhur Authority; and the
General M4anagers of PROSIDA, Proyek Hidrologi and Proyek Cimanuk
and would cause the project implementing agencies to be adequately
staffed at all times with competent and qualified personnel
(para. 4.01);
(f) GOI would engage advisors to Proyek Hidrologi on: (i) hydro-
meteorology; (ii) hydrology; (iii) sedimentation; (iv) hydrometric
automatic data processing equipment; and to Proyek Cimanuk,
(v) river management and control by November 30, 1978 (para. 4.09);
(g) All other consultants required for design and construction, devel-
opment of a master plan, feasibility studies, and review and
completion of plans and designs would be engaged by November 30,
1978 (para. 4.09);
(h) GOI shall cause the DGWRD to appoint a panel of consultants,
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Bank, to review the planning, design and construction of Jragung
Dam (and any additional dams as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank) throughout the period of planning, design and con-



- 51 -
struction of such dams, to ensure the quality of their designs and
safety, and cause such panel to be consulted prior to the execu-
tion of all major changes in the design or construction of any of
the said dams (para. 4.10);
(i) GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit
and agricultural inputs (including fertilizer, agricultural chem-
icals and certified seed) are made available at the village level
in the Cipamingkis subproject area and assist in the provision of
drying and storage facilities (para. 4.13);
(j) a water-user association would be formed for each tertiary unit in
the Cipamingkis subproject area to participate in the unit's
construction and to take over its operation and maintenance after
project completion (para. 4.14);
(k) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and annual
needs, would be allocated to all Bank-assisted irrigation systems
in future years; GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that
at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to
subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal
quarterly installments thereafter, until the total amounts are
fully released; to upgrade the standard of O&M services and to effec-
tively utilize the available funds, GOI would progressively
increase the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted
projects until the additional numbers to be established by GOI in
consultation with the Bank are employed; and GOI would inform
the Bank by December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M
personnel and per hectare O&M budget for each subproject; and by
June 1 of each following year, it would submit the approved O&M
budget and by October 1, the staffing provisions (para. 4.17);
(1) adequate staff and funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and
actual needs, would be allocated to DPMA in future years to con-
tinue the operation and maintenance of the hydrologic measurement
stations (para. 4.18);
(m)  GOI would ensure that the survey and evaluation of the economic and
social benefits of the project would be carried out by the survey
and evaluation services included in the Sixth Irrigation Project
(para. 4.19); and
(n) following the completion of the Cipamingkis subproject, the Govern-
ment would collect the adjusted IPEDA based on the increased
productivity of irrigated land for which an irrigation system is
rehabilitated or constructed following completion of the project;
the amounts to be collected would be sufficient to ensure sound O&M
practices and to recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs
during the project's useful life, taking into account farmers'
incentives and ability to pay; and it would submit to the Bank for
review every two years the IPEDA rates collected for different land
classes (para. 6.13).



- 52 -
8.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$31.0 million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of
5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Cipamingkis Subproject
Cost Estimate
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
---- (Rp million) ----           ---- (US$ million) ----    ---- (%)
Civil works
Weir                                120        170      290          0.3         0.4     0.7         60         4
Primary and secondary canals        470        570   1,040           1.1         1.4     2.5         55        15
Canal structures                  1,030      1,540   2,570           2.4         3.8     6.2         60        38
Tertiary canals                     700        460   1,160            1.7        1.1      2.8        40        17
Drainage                             60         60      120          0.1         0.2      0.3        50         2
Access and inspection roads          80         90      170          0.2         0.2      0.4        50         2
Office and housing                  110         60      170          0.3         0.1      0.4        35         2
Subtotal civil works       2,570      2,950   5,520            6.1        7.2    13.3         54        80
Right-of-way                           540          -     540           1.3          -      1.3         -         8
Vehicles and equipment                  20         60      80             -        0.2      0.2        75         1
Consultants and training                70        300     370           0.2        0.7      0.9        80         6
Engineering and administration        260          70     330           0.6        0.2      0.8        20         5
Base cost estimate         3,460      3,380   6,840            8.2        8.3    16.5         50       100
Physical contingencies                 890        890   1,780           2.1        2.2      4.3        50        25
Expected price increases            1,410      1,410   2,820            3.4        3.4      6.8        50        41
Total project cost         5,760      5,680  11,440           13.7       13.9    27.6         50       166
*__- P     i



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Jragung Dam Project
Cost Estimate - Initial Stage
Foreign    Base
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total    exchange   cost
---- Rp million -------             ------- US$ million -------    ------ % ------
Civil works
Access road                         250          250        500           0.6          0.6        1.2        50        22
Diversion tunnel                    340          410        750           0.8          1.0        1.8        55        33
Base camp                           290          290        580          0.7           0.7        1.4        50        26
Subtotal civil works         880          950      1,830           2.1          2.3        4.4        52        81
Right-of-way                           80            -          80          0.2            -        0.2         -         4
Vehicles and equipment                  -           80          80            -          0.2        0.2        90         4
Consultants                            50          200        250           0.1          0.5        0.6        80         7
Engineering and administration         60           20         80           0.2            -        0.2        20         4
Base cost estimate         1,070        1,250      2,320           2.6          3.0        5.6        52       100
Physical contingencies                280          300        580           0.7          0.7        1.4        52        25
Expected price increases              300          320        620           0.7          0.8        1.5        52        32
Total project cost         1,650        1,870      3.520           4.0          4.5        8.5         52       157
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
(D P M
m >D 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Hydrologic Measurement Program
Cost Estimate
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
--- (Rp million)  ---         ---- (US$ million) ----    ------ % ------
Civil works
Station construction               260        400      660          0.6        1.0      1.6        60        30
Subtotal civil works         260        400     660          0.6         1.0     1.6        60        30
Vehicles and equipment                 70       640      710          0.1        1.6      1.7        90        32
Consultants and training              120       500      620          0.3        1.2      1.5        80        28
Engineering and administration        170        40      210          0.4        0.1      0.5        20        10
Base cost estimate           620      1,580   2,200           1.4        3.9     5.3        74       100
Contingencies                          80       250      330          0.2        0.6      0.8        74        15
Expected price increases              120       380      500          0.3        0.9      1.2        74        23
Total project cost           820      2,210   3,030           1.9       5.4      7.3        74       138
I D HLTM
wXK
""-



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Cimanuk River Water Management Program
Cost Estimate
Foreign    Base
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total    exchange   cost
- ------ Rp million -------          ------- US$ million -------    ------ % ------
Consultants                           240          960      1,200          0.6          2.3        2.9        80        76
Vehicles and equipment                 30          260        290          0.1          0.6        0.7        90        16
Engineering and administration        100           20        120          0.2          0.1        0.3        20         8
Base cost estimate           370        1,240      1,610          0.9          3.0        3.9        79       100
Physical contingencies                 10           30         40            -          0.1        0.1        79         3
Total project cost           380        1,270      1,650          0.9          3.1        4.0        79       103
I-Ptx1
X H m
m >



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
Jragung Dam Subprolect
Cost Estimate - Total Prolect
Foreign    Base
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total    exchange   cost
- Rp million -------                 ------- US$ million -------    ------ % ------
Civil works
Jragung Dam
Embankment                      4,870        5,960    10,830           11.7         14.4       26.1        55        54
Spillway                          490          590      1,080           1.2          1.4        2.6        55         5
Outlet works                      170           250        420          0.4          0.6        1.0        55         2
Power plant                       420        1,700      2,120           1.0          4.1        5.1        80        11
Transmission line                  30           140        170          0.1          0.3        0.4        80         1
Tuntang diversion                 170           250        420          0.4          0.6        1.0        55         2
Access road                       250           250        500          0.6          0.6        1.2        50         2
Diversion tunnel                  340           410        750          0.8          1.0        1.8        55         4
Construction camp                 290           290        580          0.7          0.7        1.4        50         3
Road relocation                   160           170        330          0.4          0.4        0.8        50          1
Coffer dam                         20            20         40            -          0.1        0.1        55         -
Subtotal civil works       7,210        10.030    17,240          17.3         24.2       41.5        58         85
Right-of-way                           500            -        500          1.2             -       1.2          -         2
Vehicles and equipment                   -          120        120            -          0.3        0.3        100         1
Consultants                            350        1,390      1,740          0.8          3.4        4.2        80          9
Engineering and administration         430          110        540          1.0          0.3        1.3         20         3
Base cost estimate         8,490        11.650    20,140          20.3         28.2       48.5         58       100
Physical contingencies               2,110        2,910      5,020          5.1          7.0       12.1         58        25
Expected price increases             7,220        9,960    17,180          17.4         24.0       41.4         58        85
Total prolect cost        17,820        24.520    42,340          42.8         59.2      102.0         58       210



ANNEX I
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   Total
Expected Annual Inflation Rate (%)
Civil works                                14      12     10       8      8
Equipment and services                      8       8      8       7      7
Estimated Annual Expenditures               ----------- US$ million -------------
Civil works
Cipamingkis                             1.7    4.1    4.9    4.2    1.7    16.6
Jragung                                 0.9    1.9    2.0    0.7        -     5.5
Hydrological measurement program        0.3    0.6    0.6    0.5        -     2.0
Subtotal                          2.9    6.6    7.5    5.4    1.7    24.1
Equipment and Services
Cipamingkis                             0.5    0.9    1.2    1.1    0.5       4.2
Jragung                                 0.2    0.5    0.6    0.2        -     1.5
Hydrological measurement program        0.6    1.2    1.2    1.1        -     4.1
Cimanuk river water management
program                              0.7    1.6    1.6    0.1         -     4.0
Subtotal                          2.0    4.2    4.6    2.5    0.5    13.8
Expected Price Increases
Civil works                               0.1    1.5    2.6    2.4    0.8        7.3
Equipment and services                      -    0.4    0.8    0.7    0.3        2.2
Total                             0.1    1.9    3.3    3.1    1.1        9.5



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Calendar Year
Total   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
------------ (US$ million) ------------
Civil Works
Cipamingkis                            13.3    1.4    3.4    3.9    3.3    1.3
Jragung                                 4.4    0.7    1.5    1.6    0.6         -
Hydrological measurement program        1.6    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.4         -
Subtotal                          19.3    2.4    5.3    6.0    4.3    1.3
Right-of-Way                               1.5    0.3    0.7    0.3    0.2         -
Vehicles and Equipment                    2.8    0.5    1.1    0.9    0.3          -
Consultants and Training                  5.9    0.8    1.6    1.6    1.4    0.5
Engineering and Administration            1.8    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.1
Base cost estimate               31.3    4.3    9.2    9.3    6.6    1.9
Physical Contingencies                    6.6    0.8    1.8    2.0    1.5    0.5
Excpected Price Increases                 9.5    0.1    1.9    3.3    3.1    1.1
Total project cost               47.4    5.2   12.9   14.6   11.2    3.5



ANNEX I
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                 Cumulative disbursements
and semester                     (US$'000 equivalent)
FY79
First                                       500
Second                                   3,500
FY80
First                                     6,000
Second                                   9,000
FY81
First                                   12,500
Second                                  16,000
FY82
First                                   20,000
Second                                  24,000
FY83
First                                   27,000
Second                                  30,000
FY84
First                                   31,000



ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost              Loan
Total     Foreign        amount
… (US$ million) -------
I. Civil Works
Jatiluhur Authority                        13.3         7.2          13.1
PROSIDA                                     4.4        2.3            4.3
DPMA                                         1.6        1.0           1.6
Physical contingencies                      2.4         1.3             -
Expected price increases                     5.4       2.9              -
Subtotal                              27.1       14.7          19.0
II. Vehicles and Equipment
Jatiluhur Authority                         0.2        0.2            0.2
PROSIDA                                     0.2        0.2            0.2
DPMA                                         1.7        1.6           1.7
DOR                                         0.7        0.6            0.7
Subtotal                               3.0        2.9           2.8
III. Consultants, Field Investigations
and Start-Up Vehicles
Jatiluhur Authority                         0.8        0.6            0.9
PROSIDA                                     0.6        0.5            0.6
DPMA                                         1.2        1.0           1.3
DOR                                          2.9        2.3           3.1
Physical contingencies                      0.4        0.2              -
Subtotal                               5.9        4.6           5.9
IV. Training
Jatiluhur Authority                         0.1        0.1            0.1
DPMA                                         0.3        0.2           0.3
Subtotal                               0.4        0.3           0.4
V. Unallocated
Balance of physical contingencies            3.8        2.1           0.9
Balance of expected price increases          4.1        2.2           2.0
Right-of-way acquisition                     1.5         -              -
Engineering and administration               1.8       0.4              -
Subtotal                              11.2        4.7           2.9
Total                                 47.4       26.9          31.0



ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment
Item                                    Quantity     Unit cost    Total cost
-    …____  (US$) --
l. Cipamingkis
Vehicles
Jeeps                                  12           7,000         84,000
Motorcycles                            25             640          16,000
Bicycles                               50             200           2,000
Subtotal                                                    102,000
Equipment
Soil laboratory equipment             L.S.         30,000         30,000
Radio telecommunications
equipment                           L.S.         48,000         48,000
Office equipment & supplies           L.S.         20,000         20,000
Subtotal                                                     98.000
Total                                                       200,000
II. Jragung
Vehicles
Jeeps                                   6           7,000         42,000
Subtotal                                                     42,000
Equipment
Geologic equipment                    L.S.        120,000        120,000
Survey equipment                      L.S.         20,000         20,000
Office equipment & supplies           L.S.         18,000         18, 000
Subtotal                                                    158,000
Total                                                       200.000
III. Hydrologic Measurement Program
Vehicles
Station wagons (4 Wh-dr)              21           13,000        275,000
Sedans                                  2          10,000         20,000
Subtotal                                                    295.000
Equipment
Hydrographic
Screamflow measurement /a         18 sets          4,000         72,000
Water stage recorders               150            1,500        225,000
Water sampling  /b                18 sets          2,500         45,000
Parts and supplies                  L.S.         88,000          88,000
Climatologic
Climatologic stations Ic          20 sets          9,500        190,000
Recording rain gauges                40            1,250         50,000
Hydrogeometric
Observation well /d               20 sets          2,500         50,000
Sore hole logger /e                I set         50,000          50,000
Mobile water quality lab.               1          30,000         30,000
Computer equipment /f               1 set         240,000        240,000
Environmental quality equipment   L.S.           200,000         200,000
Printing machine                        1          85,000         85,000
Hi-speed copying machine                1          50,000         50,000
Workshop equipment                   L.S.          10,000         10,000
Office equipment & supplies          L.S.          20,000         20,000
Subtotal                                                 1.405,000
Total                                                    1,700,000
IV. Cimanuk River Water Management Protram
Vehicles
Jeeps                                  6            7,000         42,000
Subtotal                                                    42,000
Equipment
Geologic equipment                   L.S.        250,000         250,000
Hydrographic equipment               L.S.          75,000         75,000
Survey equipment                     L.S.        100,000         100,000
Soil laboratory                      L.S.        163,000         163,000
Office equipment & supplies          L.S.          70,000         70,000
Subtotal                                                   658,000
Total                                                      700,000
/a Includes current meters, lines, reels, cranes, boats, etc., for wading and
light hand line measurements as well as for heavy-duty measurement.
/b Includes two hand samplers and one heavy-duty sampler in each set.
Ic Includes equipment to obtain complete climatological data (precipitation,
temperature, evaporation, wind speed and relative humidity).
/d Includes water level sensor and recorder.
Ie Includes electric resistivity, potential, nuclear and caliper logging and
flow measurement.
/f Includes (2)D-MAC pencil followers; (2)D-MAC control consoles; (2) IBM 029
cardpunch machines; (2) Datagrid digitizers; (5) IBM composers; and mis-
cellaneous spare parts.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
C   I   P   A   M   I   N   K   I   S                                          J   R   A   G   V   N   G
Inputs/ha                          Wet Season                             Dry Season                           Wet Season                         Dry Season
Rainfed rice  Irrigated rice   Irrigated rice  Red pepper  Soybeans  Rainfed rice  Irrigated rice  Irrigated rice  Tobacco    Corn
I       II
Present
Cultivation (animal days)        20              20                  15            20          10        17       17         17                               15         10
Seed (kg)                        40              40                  40           0.4          30        50       40         50                               50         60
Fertilizer (kg)                                                                                                                                             125          75
Urea                           50             100                 100                                  25       40        100                             125
TSP                            10              25                  25                        20        10       10         25
Organic compost                                                                 500
Agrochemicals
(it) insecticides                               1                   1           2.5         0.5                           0.5                               2
(gr) zinc phosphide                           50                  50
Harvesting (Z crop yield/ha)    3                 3                   3                                   3        3          3                                3          3
Interest  (% month) /a             2              2                   2             2           2         2        2          2                                2          2
Future Without Project
Cultivation (animal days)         20             20                  20            20          10        17                  17                               15         10
Seed (kg)                        40              40                  40           0.4          30        50                  30                               50         60
Fertilizer (kg)                   60            120                 100                                  25                 200                              125         75
Urea                            10             30                  25                        25        10                  50                              125
TSP
Organic compost                                                                 500
Agrochemicals
(It) insecticides               1            1.5                 1.5            2.5         0.5                           1.5                               2           1
(gr) zinc phosphide                            50                 50                                                       50
Harvesting (% crop yield/ha)    3                 3                   3                                    3                   3                               3          3
Interest  (% month) /a             2              1                   1             2           2         2                    1                               2          2
Future With Project
Cultivation (animal days)                        20                  20            20          10        17                   17                17
Seed (kg)                                        30                  30           0.4          30        40                   30               30
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                          200                 200           100                    50                 200               200
TSP                                            50                  50            25          35        15                  50                50
Agrochemicals
(It) insecticides                            2.5                 2.5            2.5           2         1                 2.5               2.5
(gr) zinc phosphide                           100                100                                  100                 100               100
Harvesting (% crop yield/ha)                      3                   3                                    3                   3                 3
Interest  (% month) /a                            1                   1             2            2        2                    1                 1
/a  Rice - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for six months rainfed rice; for seven months irrigated rice.
Red pepper & soybeans - interest is charged on 90% of cash inputs for three months.
Tobacco - interest is  charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for five monthsr                                                                                  Hi1
Corn - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for three months.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Monthly Crop Labor Requirements
(man-day/ha)
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Total
CIPAMINGKIS
Wet Season
Rainfed rice   P /a 32    28         9    20    19   10         -      -      -     -    20    32       170
w    32    28       9    20    19   10         -     -      -      -    20    32       170
Irrigated rice P    35    33    13    28    19   10             -      -      -     -    20    32       190
W    37    35    15    30    21   10           -     -      -      -    20    32    200
W    35    36    35    35    27    -          -      -      -      -    20    32    220
Dry Season
Irrigated rice P        -     -      -    20    42   42    20    31    25           -      -      -    180
W      -     -      -    20    45   45    22    33    25           -      -      -    190
W     -      -    10    42    55   30    30    53           -      -      -      -    220
Red pepper       P      -      -     -      -      -   30    20    20    30    30                       130
W     -      -      -      -      -   30    20    20    30    30                       130
W     -      -      -      -      -   30    25    20    30    35                       140
Soybeans         P      -     -      -    10    23   18    14    23    22           -      -      -    110
W     -      -      -    10    23   18    14    23    22           -      -      -    110
w      -     -    10    25    21   16    25    23           -      -      -      -    120
JRAGUNG
Wet Season
Rainfed          P    38    33    12    20    19   10           -      -     -      -    22    36    190
rice I        W    38    33    12    20    19   10           -      -      -      -    22    36       190
w    30    26    12    20    22   12           -     -      -      -    22    36    180
Rainfed
rice II       P    30    24        9    20    19   10        -      -      -      -    22    36       170
Irrigated rice P    33    30    13    27    19   10             -      -     -      -    22    36       190
W    33    32    35    35    27    -           -     -      -      -    22    36    220
W    33    32    35    35    27    -           -     -      -      -    22    36    220
Dry Season
Irrigated rice W        -     -    10    42    55   30    30    53           -      -      -      -    220
Tobacco          P      -     -      -      -    50   44    18    33    50    55           -      -    250
W     -      -      -      -    50   44    18    33    55    60           -      -    260
Corn             P      -     -      -    10    19    9    16    16          -      -      -      -      70
W     -      -      -    10    19    9    16    16          -      -      -      -      70
/a   P   =  Present
W   =  Future without project
W   =  Future with project



INDONESIA
ANNEX 2
lRRICATION XI PROJECT                                                                                           Table 3
Crop Production Costs /a
C   I   P   A   M   I   N   K   I   S                                                   J   R   A   G   U   N   G
Wet Season         _          -       _Dry Season                                     Wet Season                               Dry Season
Rainfed rice  Irrigated rice   Irrigated rice  Red pepper  Soybeans                I  Rainfed rice  It   Irrigated rice Irrigated rice             Tobacco        Corn
PRESENT
Cash Inputs (Pp'000/ha)/b
Cultivation /c                 20.0 (20.0)       20.0  (20.0)        15.0  (15.0) 12.0 (12.0)  0    0    15.3 (15.3) 15.3 (15.3)    15.3  (15.3)                                13.5 (13.5)  9.5  (9.0)
Seed                            3.2  (2.6)        3.2   (2.6)         3.2   (2.6)  0.1  (0.1)  4.7 (3.9)  4.0  (3.3)  3.2  (2.6)              4.0   (3.3)                       10.8 (10.8)  3.0  (2.4)
Fertili-er                      6.5  (4.3)        13.5   (8.9)       13.5   (8.9)  5.0  (5.0)  1.9 (1.4)  3.7  (2.5)  5.4  (3.6)    13.5   (8.9)                                25.7 (17.8)  8.3  (5.3)
Agrochenicals                    -      -         4.2   (1.0)         4.2   (1.0) 10.3  (2.3)  2.1 (0.5)    -           -      -   (0)        2.1   (0.5)                        8.2  (1.8)  0       (0)
Harvesting                      4.3  (3.5)        6.2   (5.1)         4.1   (3.3)   -        -      -    -    3.4  (2.7)  3.8  (3.1)    6.7   (5.5)                              4.8  (4.8)  1.2  (1.0)
Interest                         -   (3.0)         -    (3.5)          -     (3.2)   -   (1.0)   -  (0.9)    -   (2.6)   -   (3.1)             -     (3.1)                        -   (4.3)   - (0.8)
Other                           1.1  (0.6)         1.9   (1.9)        2.0   (2.0)  1.6  (1.6)  2.3 (2.3)  1.6  (1.6)  2.3  (2.3)              1.4   (1.4)                        2.0  (2.0)  2.4  (2.4)
Total cash inputs            35.0 (34.0)       49.0  (43.0)        42.0  (36.0) 29.0 (22.0) 11.0 (9.0) 28.0 (28.0) 30.0 (30.0)   43.0  (38.0)                                 65.0 (55.0) 24.0 (21.0)
Labor Inputs (nan-days/ha)
Land preparation                  40                   40                 40             25           25           45           45              45                                 60              10
Planting                          40                   40                 40             10           35           50           40              40                                 25              13
Crop rnaagerent                   50                   60                55              35           20           55           45              55                                 45              25
Harvesting                        40                   50                 45             60           30           40           40              50                                120              20
Total labor inputs            170                  190               180            130           110          190         170              190                                250             70
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/ha)/b
Cultivation /c                 20.0 (20.0)       20.0  (20.0)        15.0  (15.0) 12.0 (12.0)  0    0    15.3 (15.3)                         15.3  (15.3)                       13.5 (13.5)  9.0  (9.0)
Seed                            4.1  (3.2)        5.3   (4.2)         5.3   (4.2)  0.1  (0.1)  5.8 (4.6)  5.1  (4.1)                          4.0   (3.2)                       10.8 (10.8)  4.1  (3.2)
Fertili-er                      9.6  (7.7)        20.5  (16.4)       17.1  (13.7)  5.0  (5.0)  3.1 (2.5)  4.7  (3.8)                         34.2  (27.3)                       32.9 (26.3) 10.5  (8.4)
Agroche.ical.                   4.1  (0.9)         6.3   (1.5)        6.3   (1.5) 10.3  (2.3)  2.1 (0.5)   -            -                    10.5   (2.5)                        8.2  (1.8)  0       (0)
Harvesting                      6.1  (4.9)         8.9   (7.0)        5.5   (4.4)   -        -      -    -    4.3  (3.4)                     12.2   (9.7)                        6.0  (6.0)  1.8  (1.5)
Interest                         -   (3.2)         -     (2.9)         -     (2.4)   -   (1.0)   -  (1.4)    -   (2.8)                         -    (3.2)                         -   (5.0)    -   (1.3)
Other                           2.1  (2.1)         3.0   (3.0)        1.8   (1.8)  1.6  (1.6)  2.0 (2.0)  1.6  (1.6)                          2.8   (2.8)                        2.6  (2.6)  1.6  (1.6)
Total cash inputs            46.0 (42.0)       64.0  (55.0)        51.0  (43.0) 29.0 (22.0) 13.0(11.0) 31.0 (31.0)                         79.0  (64.0)                       74.0 (66.0) 27.0 (25.0)
Labor Inputs (nan-days/ha)
Land preparation                  40                   40                 40             25            25          45                            45                                 60             10
Planting                          40                   40                 40             10            35          50                            40                                 25             15
Crop tnaagement                   50                   65                 65             35            20          55                            75                                 45             25
Harvesting                        40                   55                 45             60            30           40                           60                                130             20
Total labor inputs            170                  200               190            130           110          190                          220                                260              70
FUTURE WIT0 PROJECT
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/h.)/b
Cultivation /c                                    20.0  (20.0)       15.0  (15.0) 12.0(12.0)  0          0     15.3 (15.3)                   15.3  (15.3)       15.3 (15.3)
Seed                                               4.0   (3.2)        4.0   (3.2)  0.1 (0.1)  6.6  (5.1)  4.7  (3.7)                          4.0   (3.2)        4.0  (3.2)
Fertlli-er                                       34.2  (27.3)        34.2  (27.3) 17.1(13.7)  4.3  (3.4)  8.8  (7.1)                         34.2  (27.3)       34.2 (27.3)
Agrochenicals                                     10.5   (2.5)       10.5   (2.5) 10.3 (2.3)  8.2  (1.8)  4.4  (1.1)                         10.5   (2.5)       10.5  (2.5)
harvesting                                        12.9  (10.2)       12.9  (10.2)   -    -         -      -    5.8  (4.6)                    12.2   (9.7)       13.2 (10.4)
Interest                                            -     (3.4)        -    (3.4)   -  (2.4)   -   (0.8)   -   (3.2)                            -    (3.2)        -   (3.5)
Other                                              2.4   (2.4)         2.4   (2.4)  5.5 (5.5)  1.9  (1.9)  3.0  (3.0)                          2.8   (2.8)       2.8  (2.8)
Total cash inputs                              84.0  (69.0)        79.0  (64.0) 45.0(36.0) 21.0 (13.0) 42.0 (38.0)                         79.0  (64.0)       80.0 (65.0)
Labor Inputs (nan-days/ha)
Land preparation                                       40                 40             25            25          45                            45                  45
Planting                                               40                 40             10            35         40                             40                  40
Crop  nanag..emt                                       80                 80             40            25         50                             70                  70
harvesting                                             60                 60             65            35         45                             65                  65
Total labor  inputs                                220               220             140          120         180                           220                 220
/a  Economic prices, based on current and projected world market prices for rice, soybeans, corn and fertilizers.   Figures
in parenthesis are financial prices.  Prices used are shown in Chapter 6, Tables 6.1 and 6.2.  All prices are at constant
nid-1978 levels.
/b Physical inputs are given in Asses 2, Table 1.
/c  Cost of contracting a pair of bullocks aod as operator is Rp 1,000/animal day in Cipaingkis and Rp 900/anial day in Jragung.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Crop Budgets /a
C   I   P   A   M   I   N   K   I   S                                            J   R   A   G   U   N   G
Wet Season                             Dry Season                             Wet Season                         Dry Season
Rainfed rice  Irrigated rice   Irrigated rice  Red pepper  Soybeans  Rainfed rice  Irrigated rice  Irrigated rice  Tobacco                     Corn
I     II
PRESENT
Yield (ton/ha)                      1.8            2.6                  1.7          1.2           0.4        1.4    1.6        2.8                                0.2       0.8
Farm-gate price (Rp'000/ton)         65             65                   65          300           130         65      65         65                               800        40
Gross value of
production  (Rp'000/ha)        117.0           169.0               111.0         360.0          52.0       91.0  104.0      182.0                             160.0       32.0
Production costs, excl. labor
(Rp'OOO/ha)                     34.0            43.0                36.0          22.0          9.0        28.0   30.0       38.0                              55.0      21.0
Net value of production
excl. labor (Rp'000/ha)         83.0           126.0                75.0         338.0         43.0        63.0   74.0      144.0                             105.0       11.0
Labor requirements
(man-days/ha)                    170             190                 180           130           110        190     170       190                               250         70
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Yield (ton/ha)                      2.0            2.9                  1.8           1.2          0.4        1.4                4.0                              0.25       0.9
Farm-gate price (Rp'000/ton)         81             81                   81          300           154         81                 81                               800        54
Gross value of
production  (Rp'000/ha)        162.0           235.0               146.0         360.0          62.0      113.0             324.0                             200.0       49.0
Production costs, excl. labor
(Rp'000/ha)                     42.0            55.0                43.0          22.0         11.0       31.0               64.0                              66.0      25.0
Net value of production
excl. labor (Rp'000/ha)        120.0           180.0               103.0         338.0          51.0       82.0             260.0                             134.0       24.0
Labor requirements
(man-days/ha)                    170             200                 190           130          110         190               220                               260         70
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Yield (ton/ha)                                     4.2                  4.2           1.8          0.6        1.9                4.0            4.3
Farm-gate price (Rp'000/ton)                        81                   81          300           154         81                 81             81
Gross value of
production  (Rp'000/ha)                        340.0               340.0         540.0          92.0        154             324.0          348.0
Production costs, excl. labor
(Rp'OO0/ha)                                     69.0                64.0          36.0         13.0          38              64.0           65.0
Net value of production
excl. labor (Rp'000/ha)                        271.0               276.0         504.0          79.0        116             260.0          283.0
Labor requirements
(man-days/ha)                                    220                 220           180           120                          220            220
/a Calculated using financial prices and costs based on Annex 2, Table 3 and Table 6.2.
sz



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI PROJECT
Farm Budgets
C   I   P   A   M   I   N   K   I   S                                            J  R  A  G  U  N  G
0.2  ha farm                     0.5  ha farm                        1.2 ha farm                          0.5 ha Farm
Present  W project/a  W project  Present  W project  W project  Present W project  W project   Present  W project W project
Cropped area (ha)
Wet season - rainfed rice             -            -              -        0.17        0.17          0        0.42        0.42         -          0.25        -            -
- irrigated rice         0.20        0.20           0.20      0.33         0.33        0.50       0.78       0.78         1.20       0.25        0.50         0.50
Dry season - irrigated rice          0.10         0.10          0.11        -           -           0.10       -           -          0.12         -          -           0.48
- soybeans                -           -             0.03      0.03         0.03        0.13       0.19       0.19         0.48       0.15        0.15          -
(tobacco)L
- red pepper             0.02        0.02           0.05      0.15         0.15        0.18       0.13       0.13         0.14       0.12        0.20          -
(corn)
Total cropped area                 0.32        0.32           0.39      0.68         0.68         0.91      1.52        1.52        1.94        0.77       0.85         0.98
Cropping intensity (1)                  160         160            195       136          136         182        127        127          162        154         170          195
Crop Production (kg)
Paddy                                 690          760         1,300      1,160       1,300        2,520     2,780       3,100       5,540       1,050      2,000        4,060
Soybean                               -            -               20        10           10          80         80         80         290 (t)    30            40         -
Red pepper                              20          20             90       180          180         320        160        160          250 (c)   100          180         -
Farm Income (Rp'000)
Gross value of production /b           52           69            135       131          161         313        238        310          569         96         202          329
Production costs, excl. labor /b   13               16             23        24           29          49         52         65          102         27          47           63
Hired labor cost - harvesting /c         5           7             13         9           13          24         22         30           54           8         19           39
- other /d          -            -             -         -           -            -            1          1           14        -
Net value of production                 34          46             99        98          119         240        163        214          399          61        136          227
Land tax (IPEDA) /e                      1           1              3         3            3            7         8          8           16           2          5            7
O&M costs, farm irrigation
systems /f                          -           -                 I       -           -              2          1          1            5        -             2            2
Payments to landlord                     17          23             49        49           59          120        82         107         206          30         68          113
Net crop income
- owner-operator                        33          45             96        95          116         233        154        205          378          59        129          218
- sharecropper                          17          23             49        49           60         119         80        106          190          31         67          113
Other income /h                          70          70             70        60           60           50        40          40          20          50          50          40
Total net farm income
- owner operator                       103         115            166       155          176         283        194        245          398         109        179          258
- sharecropper                         87           93            119       109          120          169       120        146          210          81         117         153
Total labor requirements (man-day)  57               62             81       117          124          180        25        270          373         141         163         216
/a  U - Future without project; W - Future with project.
/b Based on Table 4, Crop Budgets.
/c Calculated at 12% of gross paddy production.
/d Based on maximum 40 man-days/month farm of family labor; and at Cipamingkis an average wage of Rp 350/man-day.
/e  Average annual land tax rates/ha are Rp 7,000/ha now and Rp 13,000/ha with the project at Cipamingkis; and Rp 4,000 now, Rp 10,000 without the project,
and Rp 14,000/ha with the project at Jragung.
/f  For tertiary and quaternary units, annual O&M/ha is estimated at Rp 500 now and Rp 4,000 with the project at Cipamingkis and Rp 3,000 and Rp 4,000 at                                   :
Jragung.                                                                                                                                                                             ¢ z
/g  Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production less harvesting and other production costs, except for the land tax which the landlord pays,                               fa x
and l-bor  hich the sharecropper provides. 
/h Based on interviews and Bank surveys.
/i Tobacco and corn represent the secondary crops at Jragung.



ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                        Target date
General
1. Appoint consultants
(a)  Cipamingkis Subproject                             Nov. 1978
(b)  Jragung Subproject                                  "   1978
(c)  Cimanuk River Water Management Program              "   1978
(d)  Hydrologic Measurement Program                      "   1978
2.  Employ advisors
(a)  Directorate of Rivers                              Nov. 1978
(b)  Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering                "   1978
Cipamingkis Subproject
1.  Initial design of tertiary systems                         Oct. 1978
2. Complete review and detailed design of weir
and primary and secondary canals                        Dec. 1978
3.  Invite bids and award first construction contract   Oct. 1978-July 1979
Jragung Subproiect
1.  Complete detailed designs                                  June 1978
2.  Invite bids and award first construction contract    July-Oct. 1978
Hydrologic Measurement Program
1. Civil works
(a) Prepare designs and specifications for
typical measurement stations                   Oct.-Dec. 1978
(b) Invite bids and award contract for
construction of first group of
measurement stations                           Jan.-Mar. 1979
2. Equipment
(a) Prepare specifications for measurement
equipment                                      Oct.-Dec. 1978
(b) Invite bids and award contracts for
measurement equipment                          Jan.-Mar. 1979



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General reports and studies relating to the agriculture and irrigation
sector.
A.1. World Bank, "Indonesia Development Prospects and Needs
Basic Economic Report," Report No. 708-IND, April 15, 1975.
B. General reports and studies relating to the project.
B.l.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "Summary of
1972 Report on Cipamingkis Irrigation Project by
P. T. Indah Karya," Indonesia, September 1976.
B.2.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, and P. T. Indah
Karya, "Data on Hydrology for Cipamingkis Irrigation
Project," Indonesia, 1972 (Extract from Report).
B.3.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "General Plan,
Cipamingkis Irrigation Area, Conclusion and Recommendations,"
(translated from Indonesian), 1972.
B.4.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, Directorate
of Irrigation, Sub-Directorate of Agricultural Development.
"Agricultural Develoment of Cipamingkis Project Area," Indonesia
1976, (Including supplement).
B.5.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "Construction Cost
Estimate for Cipamingkis Irrigation Project, Renewed and
Revised in August 1976."
B.6.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "Report on Cipamingkis
Irrigation Project," July 1977.
B.7.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "Report on Cipamingkis
Irrigation Project, Annexes, Tables and Drawings," July 1977.
B.8.  Republic of Indonesia, Jatiluhur Authority, "Hydrology and Water
Balance Computation," December 1977.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.9.   Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development; Kingdom of Netherlands, Directorate of International
Technical Assistance; and NEDECO, "Jratunseluna Basin Development
Project, Explanatory Note on the Rehabilitation of the Main
Drainage Systems in the Plain of East Semarang, Part 1," May
1974.
B.10.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Upgraded Feasibility
Report," December 1976.
B.11.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Upgraded Feasibility
Report, Executive Summary," December 1976.
B.12.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Upgraded Feasibility
Report, Appendix 1, Economics," September 1976.
B.13.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Upgraded Feasibility
Report, River Diversion Works, Cost Estimate," September
1977.
B.14.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Quarterly Progress
Report No. 1," June 1977.
B.15.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Jragung Dam,
Multi-Purpose Irrigation, Flood Control, Hydro Electric and
Municipal and Industrial Water Supply Project, Quarterly Progress
Report No. 2," September 1977.
B.16.  Burns and McDonnell and Trans-Asia Engineering Associates, Inc.,
"Water Supply Master Plan for the City of Semarang, Indonesia,"
November 1976.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
B.17.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "First-Phase
Water Supply Feasibility Study for the City of Semarang, Indonesia,"
November 1976.
B.18.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and Engineering Consultants Inc. (ECI), "Appendix -
Supplemental Information for the Water Supply Master Plan and the
First-Phase Water Supply Feasibility Study for the City of Semarang,
Indonesia," November 1976.
B.19.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development, Institute of Hydraulic Engineering; and G. W. Caughran,
"A Programme for Obtaining Accurate Streamflow Records in Indonesia,"
September 1976.
B.20.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development, Institute of Hydraulic Engineering; and G. W. Caughran,
"A Programme for Obtaining Accurate Streamflow Records in Indonesia,"
"Appraisal and Recommendations for Hydrometry in Jawa Timor and
Madura," March 1977.
B.21.  Republic of Indonesia, Directorate General of Water Resources
Development, Institute of Hydraulic Engineering, "Application
for Assistance for the Improvement of Hydrologic Data Collection,
Processing and Evaluation in Indonesia," October 1977.
B.22.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers, "Master Plan of Cimanuk River Basin Develop-
ment," July 1977.
B.23.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers, "Lower Cimanuk River Flood Control and
River Improvement," July 1977.
B.24   Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers and Gadjah Mada University, "Project Report
on Lower Cimanuk Flood Control and River Improvement," Main Report
and Executive Summary, September 1977.
B.25.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers, "Master Plan of Cimanuk River Basin Develop-
ment," September 1977.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
B.26.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers, "Financial Proposal: Construction Lower
Cimanuk Flood Control and Master plan for Cimanuk River Basin,"
October 1977.
B.27.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources,
Directorate of Rivers, "Master Plan of Cimanuk River Basin Deve-
lopment, Additional Data/Explanation for IBRD Team," October
1977.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.l.   Cost Estimates, Working Papers
C.2.   Price Structure for Fertilizers and Soybeans
C.3.   Economic Analysis - Net Value of Producton at Full Project
Development, Economic Cost and Benefits.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION Xi
CIPAMINGKIS AND JRAGUNG SUBPROJECTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978         1979          1980         1981          1982          1983          1984
Calender Years
CIPAMINGKIS SUBPROJECT
WEIR, PRIMARY & SECONDARY CANALS
DETA I LED DESIGN                  .m,
TENDER AND AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                                     -111
TERTIARY CANALS AND DRAINAGE
DETAILED DESIGN
TENDER AND AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                                                  -             -_
JRAGUNG DAM SUBPROJECT
~-LOAN 1
INITIAL STAGE
TENDER AND AWARD
CONSTRUCTION
JRAGUNG DAM
DETAILED DESIGN
TENDER AND AWARD                    _I                                                                                                   i
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                             C
--LOAN 2
World B3ank-18590        F



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION Xi
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
|DIRECTCORATE OF |                                                                 |       DIRECTORATE OF I      |DIRECTORAT_EOF|
PLANNING AND          DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE            IR IGTO                 HYDRAULIC
|PROGAMMINGAN|       |  OF RIVER    l       l SWAMPS                OF IRRIGTIO              IRRIGAT ION           ENINERN
PROYEH
|   CIMANUK   l                                     l   PROSIDA                           HIDROLOGI
Wordd Bank-18765



INDONESIA PROJECT XI
PROSIDA MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
[DIR. GENERAL|
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP.
|   EXPERTS    |-   *       NNA.         _       ORYROUP
CHIEF                                 CHIEF                  CHE
ENGINEERING                            OP. & MAIN.             ADNMIIT
|ENG./COiNSTRUc. |   |ENG.13uRV.-DES.   
ASST.T                   A O                    SST. FOR ASST. FOR                                   FOR
GEN.M                 SUPERV. CONST.SURVEY                                . & M.                    NCE
ASST. FOR           _     ASS,T.FOR           |    ASST. FOR         | ASST. FOR
BUILDING/FAC|             DEIGN                      HYDROLOG. |          GEN. AFFAIR
MECH. EQUIPM. |          BUDGET/REP. |              AGRICULT   |        LOGISTIC AFFAIR
|~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST FOR.FO 
BUDGET/REPORT.
sue.PROJECT       SUB. PROJECTS       SUB. PROJECTS       SUB. PROJECT       SUB. PROJECT                               M
(E-SERIES)        A-SERIES            B-SERIES            C-SERIES           D-SERIES                                   - >
World Bank-16008



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XI
Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering Organization
Director of
Hydraulic Engineering
r   Sub-Di            S-b-~~Division           SbDv
[m X    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~evc                                                                                      Dimnto Ser c
Hydrometrics                              General Hydrau-                             Technical Geology                             Documentation
Section                                  Ilic Section                                   Section                                      Section
Groundwater                                River Hydraulic                              Soil MechanicDismnto
Hydrology                                     Section                                   Sechan                                        Section
Section
Water Quality                              Estuary & Shore  |.                                                                      Data Collection 
(Chemistry) Section                          Hydraulic Ston                              Structure Section                             D  Section
General
Hydrology
World Bank -18513



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION Xi
Directorate of Rivers Organization
Directorof Rivers 
Proyek                  R     Plnnn                             1st. Construction                 r      2nd Construction                         Swamp Operation
Cimanuk              River Planning                           Development                              Development                             and Maintenance
1st Section of                          4th Section of                            iver Rehabili-
Survey Section                         Construction Dev.                        Construction Dev.                         Rive Rehaioi
Section                                 Section                               tation Section
River Fiehabili-             ~~2nd Section of                           5th Section of                           RvrTann
River Rehabili-                        Construction Dev.                        Construction Dev.                          River Training
tation Section ~ ~  ~     ~      Setin                                     ecio
tto  Section                               Section                                  Se Lt
RiverControl             3rd Section of  |6th Section of                                                   River Operation                      Q
Design RverContrl                      ConstructionDev.                         Construction Dev.                         and Maintenance                       I
-i   Design Section                         Section                                  Section                                  Section                           0
World Bank - 18514                  4



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION Xi
Jatiluhur Authority Organization
Minister of State for
Economy, Finance and Industry
Ministers of Public Works and
Electric Power, Finance, Home
Affairs and Agriculture
Jatiluhur Authority
Board of Director
President Director
Director, Electric                                        Director,                                       Director, Administration
Power Department                                      Irrigation Department                                      Department
Deputy Director                                       Deputy Director                                         Deputy Director
Agriculture Division                         Development and Construction Division                    Operation and Maintenance Division
World Bank-18515



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XI
Cipamingkis Subproject
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J        F        M        A        M         J        J        A        S        0         N        D
Wet Season Paddy                                                                                                    N
7,600 ha
H 
C__ 
Dry Season Paddy                                   N
2.000  ha                                               T111111111
in 
H 
a. Palawija                                (a)          M
1,000 ha                                                                   H
b. Red pepper                                                                              C
2,000 ha                                                                            N
(b)                                                 T
HM
Notation:                           mm
C - Cultivation                400
N - Nursery
T - Transplant                 300
M - Management
H - Harvest                    200
> -      Average Rainfall (mm)
100
00
J        F        M        A         M        J        J        A        S         0        N        D
World Bank - 18307



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT Xl
Jragung Subproject
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J         F         M          A         M          J          J         A          S         0          N         D
Wet Season Paddy                                                                                                                            N
10,500 ha
-mM                                                                                M
Dry Season Paddy                                                  N
T 
8,300 hav -
|Palawija  I =
HO~~~
Palawija 11                                                                                             M
mm~~~~~~~~
Mlawa                                                     F         M                         M Mana
Note:  Farmers Hay grves4 00
-   Average Rainfall (mm)             0
J    F         M          A         M          ,i         J         A          S         0          N          0 
Note: Farmers may grow Palawija crops after rice, however, these crops have not been included in economic anaylysis;                                         World Bank - 18306                              J



IBRD 13142
100*                          0630                         1000                         1194
MALAYSIA                       (IH              'iA
5.~~~~ Ibogo                                                                               *, ~~~~~~MALAYSIA
S1.dy A-                   4--',~SINGAPORE
7,000 ha                                                                                                                     ,-,             .l.o                                                                                                         004
R.. &.dy A,.. 1,LQ( h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1,~~
So osg, Dbrsh
1000 qhoo,0                                                                                                K'A LI  M  AN TA N
3,500 ho
0,005,501 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,0h
V.,  T  E  A-5A                              - 
Ioo,00,Soy,o--                                                                                                                                                     S  U  LAW    ES   I
AA--         5,0005 10'.,h5                                                                                                                                                .'
a..a.1w                  a~~~~~P-,0005   mis6,000 th.                                                                                                                                                   2t,0G0h.
Nay OaSrkpnfl Oo10prs3t 80,90 Irs                                                                                   d..                                                011
W.  5,0005           -     Cob rojj-                                                                                                        54,600 h.
INPONESW Oly Ko,O,h-101                                  C8odbO                    al0                                                                                                 PMtl
M M RIGA1ON  PROJECT  '' XI l,osos                                                                     60~i0                                                                                          ,16010            '~~
BR16;~~~~1oli PoojkfT Xi                                                      M.6i..~~~~POo,o RsobCIOioOa~~ &  ondolro-pjo                                                                           m0585Ops
Ilffl IGAIOOo1ISJOT               15    511-0                                                             0000,,tabIl1o                                                                                                         ls Ol'a  ssoloo4l9
7 6on h. B.6r0                                       .2OOhO0040~'posro                                                                                                           # hodOorr.005    1s0
55800ATIONi REjOAPITATtON                                                                                I                                                                                                                     oosd6o        0100
950A0    ,                                                            v                                                       00100                                                                                             oat1a1101  051 011,0,ss
a6hdo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'0  fa  O
WITVONATIONALOOCIC06A1SCoso 001                                         -CloO-ola,,-                                                                                                                                                 00~j0
~so~~sorol  0  1010000   -o           a Ia          srroaOrO        LOMBOK                                      -
229,000 Ir.                                  SLOMBAWA                                                          ,           .lUlJa.
0   100       0        o        o         o                                                                                                                                                                            I,3A  N  D 0  N  E S I
106.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31 






IBRD 13144
vff  Was  IIputlw seto                            JANUARY 1978
SUMATERA            )A VA   S E A
/oz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09 T. 91o                1   
Tcca  Jh. Poese  |, KILOMETER
e                          Ctpaningkis Sub-Projet
Projc-Bet Areaeo.e
Pronednofheposetod,e~ Cattachdlsdnt,otooce nt
Kg. Jongo lI
Proposed
Cipamingkis                                                                         KIOETR
MILES






IBRD 13531
t/   cipntih9ts           Thismap or Ar d VrA  b A                                                                              MARCH 1978
,, 33 bMf i   Arerz  he ravo orro wh  th lINDONESIA
a,Bcsv                    iB sta                                        -    OXia.5y yyvl Doudre bpym, rn rp
.. .. ...72                                                                                      IRRIGATION  PROJECT XE
<                  _   \Drinaif  Mi.~~~~~reboye         avorrpnermm
30S0bpr0e0                   aaap  orucn or mi J ragung  Dam   Subproject
E. sting Man Conols
. MD    A Al   0    E ANExisi,ng Irrigation Areas
.       Eisitng Weirs or Drms
Proposed Weirs or Darms
Sedeku Drainoge Subproject Boundory
J    A    V  A                                                                                                             Proposed Reservoirs
i '   Rivers
5  L A                                                                                                                   Roads
/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Demak                         R,.y
</                                                                                  U       ' \ * .ower Statohs
KILOMETERS     81o
\EGA                                                                                  Gu-TIOibug<S    
\  E5    OP9ER                     r/ J                           P         
/  * | o / ( i KED)RAGNGOtB 
:  5  vmv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DM                                                                                                                        D rI tR Di;X 
s2w>~ ~ ~~TNTr,                                   Keuni
Dtlrg [ONg 
_          /                  }                                      ,_                               _\j                              J''iS~~~E



