Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20587-BD
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25690)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 143.6 MILLION (US$ 200.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT
June 19, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/30/2000)
Cunfency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
Bangladesh Taka 51.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0196 = Bangladesh Taka 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 01  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT    -       Annualized Average Daily Traffic
ADP      -      Annual Development Program
ADB      -      Asian Development Bank
BCL      -      Bangladesh Consultants Limited
BRAC    -       Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
BUET    -       Bangladesh University of Engineering &
Technology
CCL      -      Compensation stipulated Under law
DHI      -      Danish Hydraulic Institute
EFAP    -       Erosion and Flood Action Plan
EIRR     -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMAP    -       Environment Mitigation Action Plan
FY       -      Financial year
GOB      -      Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -      International Development Association
ILI      -      Intensive Leaming Implementation
Completion Report
IP       -      Inspection Panel
JBD      -      Jamuna Bridge Division
JBIC     -      Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
(formerly OECF)
JBP      -      Jamuna Bridge Project
JMBA    -       Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority
iV       -      Joint Venture
MDM      -      Milestone decision meetings
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director    Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:   Jonathan Kamkwalala
Tearn Leader    Arun Baneijee
Task Team Leader    Fabio Galli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NGOs    -      Non-governmental organizations
NPV      -     Net Present Value
OD       -     Operational Directive
O&M      -     Operation and Maintenance
PAP      -     Project Affected People
PD       -     Project Director
PIA      -     Project Impact Area
POE      -     Panel of experts
PQ       -     Pre-qualification
QAG      -     Quality Assurance Group
R&R      -     Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RRAP    -      Revised Resettlement Action Plan
SAR      -     Staff Appraisal Report
TA       -     Technical assistance
UNDP    -      United Nations Development Programme
WB       -     World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                34
Annex 10. Issues Related to Resettlement and Rehabilitation                          37
Annex 11. Financial Analysis                                                         43
Annex 12. Partner Comments                                                           46
Borrower's Evaluation
Map No. 25248






Project ID: P009509                                       Project Name: Jamuna Bridge
Team Leader: Fabio Galli                                  TL Unit: SASIN
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Jamnuna Bridge                                 LIC/TF Number: IDA-25690
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                           Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: PD - Distribution & Transmission; TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/03/87                                Effective: 05/26/94            08/12/94
Appraisal:  09/05/93                                  MTR:                       03/03/97
Approval:  02/17/94                                Closing: 06/30/99             12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Bangladesh (GOB)/Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority
(JMBA)
Other Partners: Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
(JBIC) (formerly OECF)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                   A. Hamilton
Sector Manager:      Jonathan Kamkwalala                        Frederick Thomas Temple
Team Leader at ICR:   Fabio Galli                              Ismail Mobarek
ICR Primary Author:   Fabio Galli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The objectives of the project were to connect the eastern and western parts of Bangladesh through
the construction, operation, and maintenance of a multi-purpose bridge over the Jamuna River in order to
stimulate economic growth by facilitating cross-river transport of passengers, freight, and transmission of
electrical power.
3.1.2  The components designed to achieve the project objectives and funded under the project were as
follows:
(a) construction of a 4.8 km long bridge to carry a 4-lane carriage way with shoulders and with
foundations strong enough to carry a railway line, electric power interconnector, gas pipeline
and telecommunication facilities;
(b) construction of two end viaducts of about 128 meters each to connect bridge to approach roads;
(c) construction of two guide bunds of about 2.2 km each and a flood protection bund on the
east bank to regulate the river at the chosen site;
(d) construction of two approach roads on embankments at each end of the bridge;
(e) measures to mitigate the effects on the environment, Project Affected People (PAP), fisheries,
and wildlife; and,
(f) technical assistance and training including project management, construction supervision, and
institution building training of Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority (JMBA).
3.1.3  The project objectives were consistent with both the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and
International Development Association's (IDA) transport sector strategy which recognized the strong
linkages between poverty alleviation, private sector development, and the provision of essential supporting
infrastructure.
3.1.4  The project objectives were very clear--construction of a multipurpose bridge across the Jamuna
River--and ambitious since the Jamuna Bridge Project (JBP) was, and still is, the most expensive and one
of the most technically challenging transport infrastructure investments ever attempted in Bangladesh. The
project design fully supported the achievement of the project objectives through well developed and fully
engineered physical components. The implementation of the physical components was fully supported by
JMBA whose primary objective was the preparation and implementation of the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision/change in the objectives of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
Rating Component                          Sector        Cost(US$)
HS    BRIDGE                              TY            263,000,000.00
HS    GUIDE BUNDS                         TY            322,000,000.00
HS    EAST APPROACH ROAD                  TY             35,000,000.00
HS    WEST APPROACH ROAD                  TY             29,000,000.00
S     EMAP                                VY              6,000,000.00
S     RRAP AND EFAP                       VR             73,000,000.00
HS    TECH. ASST                          BI             34,000,000.00
-2-



3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   Quality at entry of the project can be considered satisfactory. Project planning and preparation
were intensive and lengthy. This ensured that the project was at a very high state of implementation
readiness once it became effective. For example, before IDA Board presentation, all civil works bids and
consultant services proposals had been received and evaluated, giving accurate cost estimates for the
project. By effectiveness, all of the construction and consultant contracts for the project had been signed.
Furthermore, by effectiveness, GOB had already raised about US$100 million in counterpart funds to
implement the project and had already established JMBA to manage project implementation. This high
state of procurement and engineering readiness was achieved despite the fact that because of the changing
morphology of the Jamuna River, the approximate location of the bridge could only be decided in late 1992
and the location of the bridge access roads could be fixed only in late 1994.
3.5.2  To mitigate the environmental and social impacts of the project comprehensive social and
environmental studies were conducted which led to the preparation of the Environmental Management
Action Plan (EMAP) and Revised Resettlement Action Plan (RRAP). It must be emphasized that this was
the first time in Bangladesh that for such a large infrastructure project the social and environmental
components were being prepared to IDA's Operational Directives (OD) 4.01 and 4.30 standards. GOB
passed two pieces of legislation exclusively for this project to facilitate land acquisition and prevent
speculators from making fraudulent claims for loss of houses/structures. Despite the very comprehensive
preparation of both the EMAP and RRAP, a local Non Governmental Organization (NGO) lodged a
complaint with IDA's Inspection Panel (IP) for alleged violations of ODs conceming erosion and flood
impact on the people living in the chars (shoals and banks) upstream and downstream of the bridge. The IP
launched a preliminary investigation which found that in respect to the char PAPs, OD's 4.01 and 4.30 had
not been fully complied with. As a result of ongoing studies on the potential impact of the Jamuna Bridge
on the char PAPs and the IP complaint, GOB took the decision to compensate all erosion affected people in
the project impact area (PIA). This led to the finalization of a comprehensive char PAP specific Erosion
and Flood Action Plan (EFAP) for implementation under the project to supplement both the existing RRAP
and EMAP. In order to implement the environmental and social components of the project, JMBA entered
into contracts with several local NGOs, who assisted JMBA to implement all three environmental and
social mitigation plans. This mechanism functioned reasonably well, although there have been difficulties
in coordination among the various agencies involved. At project closing, the resettlement program is still
ongoing. The objectives have been partially accomplished, in that the majority of the PAPs have been
resettled and compensated for losses. A full impact assessment has not yet been undertaken, although a
rapid, qualitative assessment indicates that losses of agricultural land have led to difficulties for many in
reestablishing livelihoods. There are reports that some of the poorer and more vulnerable have not yet been
fully rehabilitated. IDA will continue to supervise the project until it is clear that JMBA has undertaken all
actions required under the three mitigation plans, and that adequate assistance has been given to all affected
people. This will be documented more fully during the remainder of the supervision period. Under the
current program, this is expected to be completed in mid 2001. The implementation of the environmental
and social mitigation plans is judged to be satisfactory based on the policies and organizational structures
established (in particular the support to flood and erosion affected people); the sustained efforts to ensure
that people are given their due compensation; and the reasonably satisfactory progress in implementing the
program in terms of inputs and immediate outputs. Longer term outcomes cannot be adequately judged at
this time. The implementation of the program has highlighted a number of challenges and unforeseen
difficulties; these are described more fully in Annex 10. The report focuses primarily on these challenges
- 3 -



in order to engage the various stakeholders in a discussion about lessons learned and implications for future
projects. However, this should not be taken as lack of recognition of the substantial efforts and
achievements made.
3.5.3   Quality at entry for the project can be considered satisfactory, as mentioned above, but is actually
quite high from a technical, engineering, procurement, and financial point of view thanks to a very long and
thorough project preparation phase. However, the preparation of the social and environmental components
of the project did not sufficiently address the effects that the construction of the Jamuna Bridge would have
on char dwellers. This was in part due to the braiding nature of the river which made it difficult to forecast
what chars were going to remain and which would be eroded naturally until the actual start of construction
of the bridge. For instance, the actual construction of the West Guide Bund started only in September
1995, and its effect on the chars could not be quantified until the following high water season. Thus,
before June 1996, the full impact of the bridge construction could not be accurately/fully determined.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The project achieved all of its major physical and non-physical objectives and should also achieve
substantial development results. Thanks in large part to the completion of the Jamuna Bridge for the first
time the Northwest of Bangladesh, with over 30 million people, is fully connected to the country's
transport/infrastructure network. This is already generating increased economic development opportunities
through reduced transport costs and better access to key consumption centers/markets like Dhaka.
Evidence of this can be seen in the higher levels of traffic (+41 %) on the Jamuna Bridge when compared to
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) traffic estimates. This is despite GOB's decision to go for a 'higher toll'
strategy vis-a-vis what was proposed in the SAR to maximize financial rather than economic benefits.
Once complementary road and rail investments, to further integrate the Jamuna Bridge to the transport
network of the country are completed, further reductions in transport costs should be realized, which should
in turn further stimulate economic development in the area.
4.1.2  Thanks in part to the completion of the Jamuna Bridge, natural gas, electricity, and
telecommunications, can now be transported more efficiently to the energy/telecommunication deficient
parts of the country. If border and transshipment arrangements are streamlined between India and
Bangladesh, the Jamuna Bridge will fulfill its role as a critical transport link on the trans-Asia highway and
rail. This will facilitate the movement of trade from Nepal, Bhutan, and Northeastem India to/through
Bangladesh. An unexpected outcome of the project was demonstrated during the 1998 floods when the
Jamuna Bridge kept connected large parts of the country that were flooded.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Physical Components. The implementation of the physical components of the project can be
considered highly satisfactory. All of the physical components were substantially completed by June
1998. Compared to the contractually stipulated completion dates, this was about six months behind
schedule but one full year ahead of the project closing date. Considering that the Jamuna is a braided and
turbulent river with very large seasonal fluctuations in water levels, it is remarkable how quick and incident
free was the construction of the bridge. To keep the river under the bridge very large and complex river
training works had to be designed and executed almost simultaneously with the construction of the bridge.
The technical difficulty of executing the physical components of the project was further compounded by a
very short working season (about 7 months) and by very tight contractual completion dates. What follows
is a table which indicates the planned vs. actual completion of the individual civil works contracts:
- 4 -



Component         Start of Contract  Original contract  Revised contract  Actual Completion
contract                            completion date   completion date
Bridge &          10/15/1994        12/13/1997         6/20/1998         6/20/1998
Approach viaducts
River Training    10/15/1994        4/2/1997           12/13/1997        10/16/1997
Works
East Approach     10/15/1994        2/1/1997           3/31/1998         3/31/1998
Road
West Approach    10/15/1994         2/1/1997           12/1/1997         12/1/1997
R oad                                                  _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
4.2.2  One of the key success factors in implementing the physical components of the project was that the
design, engineering, most of the land acquisition, procurement of contractors, and selection of supervision
and management consultants had been substantially completed by Credit effectiveness. Furthermore,
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) together with the application of strict pre-qualification (PQ)
criteria succeeded in attracting highly qualified international contractors to the bidding process. This
enabled GOB to procure internationally experienced contractors to execute the civil works contracts.
4.2.3  There was only one late award of contract, namely for river training works, which, however,
caused a chain reaction of delays in the completion of the other contracts. The resulting six-month delay in
completing all of the civil works contracts is minimal considering the various other negative impacts like
hartals, weather, and floods.
4.2.4  Although the construction schedule was tight, the overall construction quality of all the contracts is
close to international standards and far superior to the usual standards achieved in South Asia. The riding
quality of the approach roads is excellent while that of the bridge is somewhat lower because of the need to
reduce the cost and weight of the bridge. There were a number of construction-related issues that arose
during implementation such as: (a) highly publicized cracks in pre-cast concrete units of the bridge works;
(b) underwater subsoil problems which led to slope failures in the river training works; (c) east guide bund
redesign; (d) delayed handover of east bridge end area; (e) slow progress in embankment construction; (f)
pile wall thickness; and (g) karimon rock issue. All of the construction related issues were successfully
resolved.
4.2.5 Social & Environmental Components. The implementation of the social and environmental
components of the project can be deemed satisfaetory despite the IP complaint To implement the project
almost 3,000 hectares of land were acquired in very land scarce Bangladesh and about 100,000 people
were affected to varying degrees by its implementation, the majority of them through land acquisition and
displacement. For many of them, the loss of agricultural land signified loss of their main source of income,
and the project has attempted to rehabilitate these people and provide alternative livelihood opportunities.
This made the scale and complexity of preparing and implementing the social and environmental
components of the project almost a project within the project. FurtherTnore, it must also be stressed that it
was the first time that IDA, together with GOB and the other co-financiers, have implemented the social
and environmental components of a large infrastructure project in Bangladesh to such a high standard.
Therefore, the implementation of the RRAP, EFAP, and EMAP, under the JBP broke new ground and was
a learning experience for all parties involved. It is probable that land acquisition was in excess of what was
actually required for the project, and caused greater displacement than necessary, for example by acquiring
a hundred meter wide corridor for access roads. While it is difficult to quantify exactly the unnecessary
- 5 -



land acquisition, JMBA is now in a position where they have excess land and have to find uses for it.
Future projects of this nature would benefit from a tighter integration of environmental, social, technical
and economic impact assessments before designs are finalized, in order to avoid or minimize displacement
and other negative impacts wherever possible.
4.2.6  The primary objective of the RRAP was quite ambitious since it tried to ensure that all PAPs
should be at least as well off after project implementation as they were before, if not better off. The
entitlement/benefits program represented a fully fledged social development program in itself and
considerably improved GOB policy in the area of Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R). During
implementation GOB raised some concems that the RRAP entitlement package was too generous and that
it would establish a precedent for all large infrastructure projects in the country whether or not they were
funded by external agencies. Despite this, GOB/JMBA took a proactive role in implementing the social
component of the project. Supervision reports and evaluations indicate that this was largely successful, but
that there have been significant implementation difficulties. Concerns have also been raised related to
governance issues. Reports indicate that some people have benefited from fraudulent compensation
payments, while some among the poorer PAPs may not have received sufficient compensation or
assistance, and have been rendered landless and worse off than before. Case studies and sample data
support these reports, but a more systematic assessment of impacts will be undertaken during the remainder
of IDA's supervision period.
4.2.7  One specific group of PAPs that was not explicitly covered in the RRAP were the char dwellers
who would eventually be affected by erosion and flood impact of the project. IDA pointed this out during
supervision missions as early as 1994, but GOB was initially reluctant to establish entitlements for victims
of floods or erosion, pointing out that this would set a difficult precedent in a country like Bangladesh with
winding rivers where erosion occurs naturally due to shifts in channels and flooding occur naturally every
year. However, following a complaint to the Bank's IP and a preliminary investigation by the Panel, GOB
agreed to adopt a compensation policy that would be time-bound and limited within the bridge project's
impact area. More specifically, this would compensate for properties lost due to erosion and flooding.
Titles to the lands would remain with the owners, who would regain them if the lands resurfaced. While
there have been implementation difficulties with the EFAP, it should be considered a major achievement,
and may set the standard for future major infrastructure works affecting the natural river regime in the
country.
4.2.8  As a direct result of the deficiencies in the land tenure system in the country, there were some
delays in establishing the legitimacy of some of the claims for compensation. This resulted in delays in
paying compensation under the RRAP and EFAP. (Because of the difficulties in establishing legal rights to
land, a small number of claims have still not been settled by GOB.) The compensation approach taken is
based on the district authorities being responsible for payment of the official amount of compensation
stipulated under law (CCL) and the NGOs only coming in after this was paid with additional support and
compensation payments to top up the CCL in order to ensure that payments represent full replacement cost
of land and assets lost. This two-step approach has also been a source of delays. Concerns have been
raised about demands for unofficial payments of "speed money", as it is known in Bangladesh, before
people have been given the compensation they are entitled to. Fraudulent claims and collusion with local,
powerful people, have led in some cases to excessive compensation payments.
4.2.9  To mitigate the environmental impacts of the project, an EMAP was developed for implementation
during the life of the project. Some of the social/environmental mitigation measures identified in the EMAP
and implemented under the project were: (a) reduction of construction related impacts; (b) agricultural
development; (c) fisheries mitigation; (d) wildlife protection; (e) boat navigation; (f) social afforestation;
- 6 -



(g) water resources management; and (h) health and sanitation. A major environmental issue that arose
during the construction of the bridge was the closure of the upstream (in relation to the bridge) Dhaleswari
River intake. The impact of the closure of the Dhaleswari River intake was soon mitigated when another
channel opened just south of the bridge and offset the effects of the upstream Dhaleswari River intake
closure. All the above mentioned components have been implemented and some are still being implemented
mainly by NGOs. The implementation of some of the mitigation measures developed by the EMAP, such
as social afforestation and fish farming, should be self sustaining and will continue long after the
completion of the bridge works.
4.2.10 Finally, it should be noted that although the physical works were completed in mid-1998 and the
IDA funded portion of the project was closed on December 31, 1999, GOB has agreed to continue the
implementation of some of the sub-components of the social and environmental components for several
more years.
4.2.11 Technical Assistance (TA) Component. The focus of the TA component was primarily to assist
GOB and JMBA to implement the project as efficiently and effectively as possible. A supervision
consultant with full powers as the 'engineer', was selected to supervise the four civil works contracts and an
internationally experienced management consultant was also selected to provide project management
support to JMBA in implementing all aspects of the project. Furthermore, a Panel of Experts (POE)
consisting of domestic and intemational experts was formned, to advise JMBA in all technical matters
associated with the implementation of the civil works components of the project. The supervision
consultant played a critical role in providing the necessary coordination to the three contractors working on
the four civil works contracts and in ensuring that the civil works were being executed to the appropriate
specifications and within the stipulated contractual time frame. The management consultant provided
day-to-day support to JMBA in managing all contractual related matters and in implementing the RRAP,
EMAP, and EFAP. The POE provided the necessary technical guidance and expertise on very specific
technical matters.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The economic re-evaluation of the project was undertaken following the same methodology used in
the SAR. All assumptions and key parameters adopted at appraisal were applied to the economic
re-evaluation. It should be noted that the actual project implementation period was almost the same as
assumed at appraisal for the economic analysis.
4.3.2  At present, there are still some uncertainties regarding the final cost of the project because a large
amount of standing claimns from some of the civil works contractors have not been settled. The financial
cost of these standing claims (apart from the claims already accepted by JMBA) has been estimated at up
to US$124 million. To arrive at a reasonable final cost for the project, the economic re-evaluation assumed
that 1/3 of these claims, totaling about US$40 million will eventually be accepted by GOB. With this
assumption and taking into account the changes to project costs, traffic and energy sector benefits, it was
determined that the project's economic viability has improved slightly when compared to the SAR
estimates. The composite base Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the project at completion was
re-estimated at 16.8%, 2.3 percentage points higher than the SAR estimate of 14.5%. The base case
estimate for the project's Net Present Value (NPV) at completion was US$275 million, compared with the
SAR estimate of US$182 million.
4.3.3  Taking into account the large amount of controversy and debate that the economic viability issue
generated during project preparation, it must be emphasized that the higher than projected EIRR is an
important achievement. Furthermore, if GOB had decided to adopt a low toll strategy for truck traffic to
- 7 -



maximize the economic benefits of the Jamuna Bridge, the recalculated EIRR and NPV would have been
slightly higher. This is because the high toll strategy adopted and the complementary road infrastructure
being not yet complete might have caused slightly lower than projected truck traffic levels using the bridge,
the benefit derived from which accounted for a substantial portion of the quantifiable project benefits.
However, once the complementary road infrastructure investments are completed, truck traffic levels will
probably achieve or even surpass the projected levels.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
4.4.1  According to the SAR, JMBA's financial objectives were to: (a) levy tolls at minimum levels so as
not to discourage traffic from using the bridge, and (b) to raise enough funds from road users and other
uses (such as power interconnector) to meet all maintenance and operation costs (including toll collection
charges) and to meet in full debt servicing obligations.
4.4.2  To ensure that the Jamuna Bridge generated the necessary resources to cover the operation and
maintenance (O&M) and heavy debt servicing costs, GOB has decided to adopt toll levels (see borrowers
contribution to Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) for actual toll levels) that are
very similar to what was recommended in the JMBP Toll Study Report, 1997 (Toll Study) but that are
substantially higher than what was envisaged in the SAR. So far toll revenues from the bridge have
actually slightly exceeded (+1-2%) what was projected in the Toll Study, although tariffs negotiated for the
rail, electricity and telecom lines across the bridge are substantially lower than what was recommended in
the Toll Study and no rate has yet been negotiated for the gas pipeline.
4.4.3  Looking at the figures from the Toll Study (see Annex 11, Table I) the Jamuna Bridge should be
able to generate an adequate level of revenue to cover the O&M and debt servicing costs and leave a
surplus to be able to create a reserve fund to cover emergency repairs for the bridge or possibly seed capital
for the development of other bridges in the country. Using more conservative traffic growth figures (see
Annex 11, Table II & HI) and a 2% annual depreciation in the Taka vis-a-vis the US$, the Jamuna bridge
would still be able to cover all of the costs associated with its operations over a 35 year period. However,
for several years during the 2004-2018 period (depending on which scenario is used) the net revenue (total
revenues minus total costs) generated by the bridge could be insufficient to cover all costs which could
possibly require supplementary funding from GOB.
4.4.4 What will determine in the long run the financial viability of the bridge will be a combination of the
following factors; (a) actual depreciation of the Taka vis-a-vis the US$; (b) long term O&M costs; (c) cost
of emergency repairs to bridge and river training works; (d) growth in the real economy and in transport
demand; (e) elasticity of demand to increases/decreases in toll rates; (f) increases in the tariffs charged to
rail, electricity and telecom and gas lines using the bridge; (g) change in the traffic mix using the project;
and (h) competing road transport infrastructure investments.
4.4.5  Considering that the bridge has a design life of 100 years and that within the next 35 years the debt
servicing costs to build the bridge will have dropped to zero, the likelihood that the bridge will generate a
significant financial surplus for GOB are quite high. Even during the first 35 years of operations the
likelihood that it will be generating an aggregated financial surplus is quite high as described in the
previous paragraph.
-8 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  The institutional development impact of the project was limited since it was not one of the stated
project objectives. Although a large TA component was funded under the project, its primary focus was to
assist GOB/JMBA in implementing the project. As part of this component supervision and management
consultants were selected to assist JMBA in managing the implementation of the project.
4.5.2 The full involvement of JMBA in the preparation and implementation of the project has enhanced
its capability to manage the execution of large bridge projects in Bangladesh. As a result of this, JMBA
has been given the responsibility to manage the planning, execution, O&M, and toll collection, for all major
bridges (more than 1.5 kIn) in Bangladesh. Although not a stated objective of the project, JMBA has
evolved into an operationally autonomous body. However, JMBA has not yet developed the appropriate set
of skills to independently manage the construction and operation of a large multi-purpose bridge in
Bangladesh.
4.5.3  The project did have some impact in fostering the development of the local engineering and
construction industry by exposing it to intemational best practice. Furthermore, the international
contractors and consultants recruited large numbers of nationals. This enhanced their skills in civil
construction, engineering, supervision and planning. Finally, the implementation of the social and
environmental components of the project helped GOB and, more importantly, the local NGO sector to
further develop its capabilities in the rehabilitation of PAPs. This could be enhanced further by clearer
selection criteria for choosing NGO partners to work on the social and environmental components, and by
focusing more on social mobilization and capacity building among the affected people rather than just
delivery of compensation payments.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  Periods of political turrnoil--such as the non-cooperation movement (Hartal) of 1996--did have
some effect on the implementation of the civil works components of the project. The IP complaint could
have had a major effect on project completion if it had not been successfully handled by GOB and JMBA.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  The decision by GOB to create and empower JMBA to manage the process of designing, planning,
constructing, maintaining, and operating the Jamuna Bridge was a key success factor in implementing the
project. More specifically, GOB's decision to on-lend the proceeds of the three loans/credits from the
co-financiers to JMBA directly and to give it the same status as a governmental department greatly
facilitated project implementation. Its full acceptance of the role of the supervision consultant as the
'engineer' and of the management consultant to assist JMBA also greatly facilitated project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 JMBA's clearly defined role as the empowered entity in charge of managing and coordinating all of
the activities and parties involved (different GOB ministries/departments, three co-financiers, two major
consultants, and several contractors & NGOs) in preparing and implementing the project was critical.
JMBA's willingness to actually use its authority to make contractual payments greatly facilitated funds
flow to the contractors and consultants. The decision to establish social and environmental units within
JMBA with the necessary staff and support from the management consultant was instrumental in enabling
the implementation of the RRAP, EMAP, and EFAP. Financial accounting, reporting and auditing
-9-



arrangements for the project were not well defined. At the time the project was prepared and appraised the
Bank did not have financial management specialists who could provide technical input from the Bank on
these aspects.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  The total project cost as compared to the SAR cost estimate is currently estimated at US$753.7
million. This is about US$57.7 (+ 8.3%) million more than the US$696 million estimated in the SAR and
includes an estimated provision of about US$25.0 million to settle all outstanding contractual claims.
Taking into consideration the size, complexity and risk of the project, the final US Dollar costs are very
close to the SAR projected figure. Since about 90% of the project costs were incurred in foreign exchange,
the Taka completion cost estimate for the project is very close to the SAR projected Taka figure. If all
other non-SAR funded project costs (provision for claims, taxes, GOB losses on foreign exchange
payments, emergency trust fund, interest during construction, establishment and other expenses) are
included, the total financial cost of the project increases to about US$985.6 million. Finally, fund flow
problems did not significantly affect project implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The long-term sustainability of the project is likely for the following reasons:
6.1.2  The civil works have been fully completed to a high constructions standard. The river training
works and the bridge itself were severely tested by the exceptional 1998 floods, they have performed almost
extremely well from a technical point of view. Considering the design life of the Bridge works (100 years)
there is the possibility that the course of the Jamuna River will shift to such an extent that it will leave the
Bridge cut off from the river. This issue has generated considerable research and debate during project
preparation and implementation. However, the POE has determined that the likelihood of this scenario
occurring is quite low.
6.1.3 As planned, GOB is charging tolls for all types of vehicles using the Jamuna Bridge. The toll
levels that have been set are consistent with the recommendations of the Toll Study. So far, the revenues
being generated from the Jamuna Bridge are slightly ahead of the projections made in the toll study. In
addition, as projected in the SAR, toll revenues should be able to fully cover the long term O&M of the
bridge and, depending on the future exchange rate of the Taka vis-A-vis the US Dollar, should cover in full
the debt servicing requirements (see section 4.4). Although not funded under the project, all of the
complementary infrastructure investments on the Jamuna Bridge have been completed. A dual gauge
railway line, power interconnector, gas pipeline, and telecommunication lines have been laid across the
Jamuna Bridge.
6.1.4  The construction of the Jamuna Bridge has triggered several complementary transport sector
investments to fully utilize the benefits of the bridge and to better integrate it in the transport network of the
country. For example, the improved Jamuna Bridge access road to Dhaka is currently under construction.
On the west side of the Bridge, the Hatikumnrul-Bonpara Road financed by IDA is also under construction
and once completed will provide a much shorter link between the West and the East of the country through
the Jamuna Bridge. In addition, the construction of a new dual gauge railway line from Joydevpur near
Dhaka to the east end of the bridge is well under way. On the west side of the bridge, the dual gauge
conversion of the existing rail line from Jamtoil Junction to Parbatipur is also under execution. All of these
10 -



transport sector investments are expected to be completed within the next two to three years, and should
dramatically improve the connectivity of the Northwest region with the rest of the country thanks to the
Jamuna Bridge.
6.1.5  To fully utilize the extra land in its possession in the Jamuna Bridge area, JMBA has drawn up a
comprehensive master plan for its sustainable development It has already given out on concession part of
the land for a period of 30 years to an international/domestic joint venture (JV) company to develop tourist
facilities. Furthermore, the construction of an industrial park in Sirajganj has been approved by GOB and
an allocation has been made in its Annual Development Program (ADP). During supervision of the
remainder of the RRAP implementation, the issue of how displaced people can benefit from opportunities
created by this land will be discussed with JMBA, in order to seek an equitable sharing of the project
benefits with the local population.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 JMBA has decided to contract out toll collection and O&M for the Jamuna Bridge to an
intemational/domestic JV for a period of 5 years. The primary responsibility of the selected O&M
contractor will be to ensure the routine maintenance of the civil works and to collect tolls on behalf of
JMBA for a management fee. In case extraordinary maintenance of the Bridge is required, JMBA can also
use its services or contract out the work to other contractors. To enhance toll collection efficiency and
accountability, the O&M contractor has proposed to JMBA to install a new computerized integrated
automatic vehicle classification system. The new system is currently being considered for installation by
JMBA.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  IDA's performance during project preparation can be considered satisfactory. The project was
comprehensively prepared by a highly experienced team. This enabled the up-front resolution of complex
social, environrnental, technical, engineering, and economic viability issues, and it meant that the project
was at a very high state of readiness once implementation started. The 'active' project
identification/preparation phase lasted from 1989 to 1993, during which time a total of nine missions were
fielded. The total approximate cost of project preparation from project identification to board approval
was over US$1 million and it involved almost 400 staff weeks. Comparing project preparation costs for
the Jamuna Bridge Project to current project preparation coefficients (about US$200-300 thousand), the
cost of preparation can be considered high. However, considering the size, risk, and complexity of the
project, the cost is justified.
7.1.2 Serious concerns were raised especially within IDA about the economic viability and overall cost
of the project. As a result of these concems the project was subjected to very thorough economic analysis
which prolonged project preparation. (According to GOB these delays in project preparation led to a 20%
increase in total project costs). Furthermore, the emphasis on economic viability and the need to reduce the
overall cost of the project led to the cancellation of several essential complementary infrastructure
investments.
7.1.3  To respond to the Category "A" environrnental rating for the project, a very detailed Environmental
Impact Assessment was conducted which resulted in the preparation of a comprehensive EMAP to mitigate
the environmental social impacts of constructing the bridge. This was the first time in Bangladesh that the
social and environmental impacts of an infrastructure project were handled in such a comprehensive
- 11 -



manner. To manage and mitigate the social impacts of constructing the Jamuna Bridge on PAPs, a RRAP
was prepared for implementation during the project. One group of PAPs living on the
upstream/downstream chars from the bridge was not explicitly covered in the RRAP. However, since the
resettlement policy had made provision for unforeseen impacts becoming evident later, it was possible to
add benefits and support to the people affected by project-induced erosion and flooding.
7.1.4  With regard to financial management aspects, although financial analysis of the implementing
agency was undertaken, no appraisal of the financial management capacity of the JMBA was undertaken,
nor an analysis of its financial management needs. However, the project hired financial consultants who
prepared all required financial reports, which were satisfactory to the Bank.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  IDA's performance can be considered highly satisfactory during supervision. As requested by
GOB, IDA acted as the co-financier project implementation coordinator. This enabled IDA to take a more
proactive role in resolving the issues faced during implementation. To expedite project implementation, the
IDA supervision team instituted Milestone Decision Meetings (MDM). The objective of the MDMs was to
bring together JMBA/GOB and all the co-financiers, consultants, POE, contractors, and NGOs, at regular
interval to discuss and resolve all implementation-related issues. A total of eight MDM meetings were held
during project implementation and they played a critical role in facilitating project implementation. For the
full duration of project implementation, IDA also provided a co-financier project coordinator based in
Dhaka who held monthly cofinanciers committee meetings.
7.2.2  IDA's supervision team greatly assisted GOB/JMBA and the other co-financiers in implementing
the project. It provided experienced staff and was instrumental in assisting JMBA to establish the POE
that could be used to provide guidance in resolving many of the key technical issues. The supervision tearn
in the earlier stages of the project did not include financial management specialists, as these have only
recently been engaged by the Bank. The supervision team was also very responsive in responding to major
problems/crisis that arose during implementation. For example, when the IP complaint was filed, the
supervision team together with JMBA and the other co-financiers took decisive action to address the issues
raised in the complaint. Because of this, the prelirninary IP investigation concluded that a full investigation
of the project was not warranted.
7.2.3  The total cost of supervising the project was about US$900 thousand (about US$150 thousand per
Bank financial year (FY)). Considering the size and complexity of the project, together with the heavy cost
of responding to the IP complaint, the cost of supervision can be considered low. A total of 14 supervision
missions (including the MDM meetings) were fielded with a maximum of three per FY.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  IDA's overall performance was highly satisfactory. Although the project was well prepared, it
was at a high cost when compared to current cost standards. This enabled the quick and complete
implementation of all of the project components due to their high state of implementation readiness. IDA
provided both staff with the right skill mix and continuity to implement the project. Furthermore, IDA took
on the leading role to coordinate with JMBA/GOB and the co-financiers all aspects of project
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Borrowers performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory. JMBA was
established in 1985 by GOB with the mandate to manage the preparation of a bridge project over the
- 12 -



Jamuna River. Furthermore, in 1986 to fund project preparation and eventual implementation, GOB
established a "Jamuna Bridge Surcharge and Levy Ordinance". In 1986 with financing from United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) it conducted the first project feasibility study which
recommended the Bhuapur-Sirajganj crossing site on the Jamuna River. In 1989 further techno-economic
feasibility studies were conducted to recommend the appropriate technical and engineering configurations
of the bridge as well as detailed designs for river training works. The study concluded that a multipurpose
bridge which would allow the crossing of road, rail, and power was both economically and technically
feasible.
7.4.2  Once it was determined that a multi-purpose Bridge across the Jamuna River was technically and
economically feasible, GOB vigorously approached several co-financiers, including IDA, to fund the
Jamuna Bridge Project. To reduce project implementation risk, GOB agreed and fully embraced a strategy
of full implementation readiness. Before the start of implementation, it also funded with its own resources
the construction of the embankment and access roads required to construct the bridge. To improve the
quality of project preparation, an internationally experienced consultant was recruited to assist JMBA in
the preparation of detailed engineering, Bill of Quantities and bidding documents. To systematically
address the social and environmental impacts of the project, GOB also agreed to prepare social and
environmental components consistent with the IDA's OD's 4.01 and 4.30. The preparation of these two
components broke new ground in Bangladesh and set a precedent for all other externally-aided
infrastructure projects.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  GOB's performance during implementation can be considered highly satisfactory. Although there
were several changes of govemment during project implementation, their commitment to the project did not
change. As a clear indication of its commitment to implementing the project, GOB not only established
JMBA to prepare the project but also gave it the necessary financial, managerial, and decisional autonomy
to implement the project.
7.5.2 To provide JMBA with the necessary funds to implement the project GOB agreed to on-lend the
proceeds of the loans/credits from the co-financiers to JMBA. The on-lending agreement between GOB
and JMBA functioned quite well during project implementation and despite the very heavy expenditure
flows during the construction phase, there were minimal cash flow problems and payment delays to
contractors and consultants. In addition, the over US$100 million raised by the GOB to fund the
implementation of the JBP was not diverted to other purposes despite severe budgetary pressures faced by
GOB. (For the full duration of the project GOB even provided a US$ 10 million trust fund to handle
emergency expenditures during project implementation.)
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 The implementing agency performance was satisfactory during implementation. JMBA played a
key role in both project preparation and implementation by providing the necessary continuity and focus
within GOB to prepare and implement the project. This ensured that the institutional memory gained
during the very long project preparation phase was not lost. Furthermore, it gave the necessary confidence
to the co-financiers since they had a single and fully committed interlocutor to deal with. Turnover of key
staff was not excessively high when compared to the implementation of other projects in Bangladesh.
7.6.2  Because of the complexity of the project and the multitude of demands generated by the
co-financiers, GOB agreed to hire an experienced management consultant to assist JMBA in implementing
the project. This is particularly true for the implementation of the RRAP, EFAP, and EMAP and in the
handling of contractual issues/disputes with contractors and the supervision consultant.
- 13-



7.6.3   Although the IDA-funded portion of the project closed in December 1999, and the civil works
contracts completed in June 1998, JMBA has not been able to resolve, in a timely manner, most of the
pending contractual claims.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The overall perfornance of the borrower can be considered highly satisfactory. This is a clear
example of a project where project ownership was high and consistent despite changes in government and
the large number of parties involved.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 What follows are some of the key lessons that were leamed from implementing the JBP.
8.2    Funding of large infrastructure projects. The successful implementation of the JBP
demonstrates that IDA and other co-financiers still have a 'comparative advantage' in funding and
facilitating the implementation of complex large infrastructure project in countries with poorly developed
capital markets like Bangladesh.
8.3    Quality at entry. Quality at entry does not come cheap in terms of time and staff required to
prepare a project. It is critical that adequate resources are 'invested' by both the borrower and IDA to
properly prepare a project. The JBP is a clear example of a well designed and very thoroughly prepared
project which was ready for implementation thanks to adequate resources being provided.
8.4    Ownership and commitment. GOB's very strong commitment to the project demonstrates the
importance of ownership in executing complex projects like the JBP. Without such a high level of
ownership and resulting commitment to the project by the borrower, it would not have been possible to
successfully implement the project.
8.5   IDA supervision resources. One of the key success factors in implementing the project was that
IDA was willing to provide the necessary resources to properly supervise the project. This is often not the
case despite the findings of the Wapenhans Report of the early 90's.
8.6    Continuity of IDA staff An important lesson is that the same core team that was responsible for
project preparation should be made responsible for its implementation. In the case of the JBP, the same
experienced team that prepared the project was also responsible for its full implementation. This provided
the necessary continuity, skills, and more importantly accountability during the critical project
implementation phase.
8.7    MDM. The MDM proved to be an extremely effective and systematic mechanism to focus and
resolve specific implementation related issues and to foster a sense of ownership. The majority of MDM
meetings were held at the construction site to focus attention on implementation issues. MDM should
become an integral part of project supervision even if it means increasing supervision spending coefficients.
8.8    Empowered implementing agency. Without a fully empowered implementing agency like JMBA
it would have been extremely difficult to coordinate and manage all the activities and parties involved in the
preparation and implementation of the project.
- 14 -



8.9    Social & environmental components. The preparation and more importantly implementation of
the social and environmental components of large civil works projects must be given the same attention as
the preparation of the physical components. In the case of the JBP the real needs, in terms of resources, to
implement the social and environmental components of the project was not appreciated until well into
project implementation. It could be argued that because of its size and complexity, the JBP could have
been split into two projects; one focusing on the physical works while the other one focusing on the social
and environmental components. This approach could have generated the additional resources to better
prepare and more importantly more closely supervise the implementation of the social and environmental
components. However, such an approach would have further added to the complexity of the project, and
would have made coordination among the various components more difficult.
8.10   Site readiness. The necessary land acquisition together with the shifting of utilities, structures and
trees should be substantially completed before the start of physical implementation of a project.
Comprehensive site readiness is probably the single most important element in reducing implementation
delays and risks. Therefore, for projects that involve large civil works contracts with large amounts of land
acquisition, the practice of requiring substantial site readiness before civil works contracts are cleared
should become the norm. (For this to happen much greater early coordination/cooperation between the
preparation of the physical and social components of the project will be required, allowing compensation
and resettlement support to affected people to be carried out before displacement takes place.)
8.11   Supervision consultant as the 'engineer. In the case of the JBP the role of the supervision
consultant as the empowered engineer worked well. The engineer was given the necessary powers and
independence to operate as the engineer and this reduced payment delays and potential problems with the
contractors. Thus for a large complex project like the JBP the role of the supervision consultant as the
engineer can be effective if properly managed.
8.12   Partnership with other co-financiers. As the JBP demonstrated, co-financing can be an
extremely effective mechanism to fund large, complex and risky projects. However, for co-financing to be
fully effective, a clear understanding of the roles and responsibilities of each co-financier must be
ascertained early in the process. Furthermore, one of the co-financiers must take the lead to ensure that the
agreed modus operandi for project preparation and implementation is followed. The very high cost of the
JBP made co-financing the only viable option for funding, since none of the major development agencies
were willing to fund or take the risk of implementing the project on their own. Thus, partnership with other
co-financiers to fund large infrastructure projects can be useful to reduce financial risk and increase
leverage.
8.13   Development objectives. The JBP had very clear and focused objectives. The lesson learned is
that the development objectives of a project must be clear and focused and should be fully supported by
well prepared project components. Too often development objectives are vague and not fully supported by
well developed project components.
8.14   ICB. Because of ICB, GOB was able to procure, in a cost effective manner, intemationally
experienced contractors to execute technically challenging civil works contracts. However, ICB alone,
without a strict PQ process, would not have resulted in the procurement of the most suitably qualified
contractor at the lowest possible price to execute the works. Thus the lesson leamed from implementing
the JBP is that a combination of ICB together with a very strict PQ process produces the best results.
- 15-



8.15   Arbitration and dispute resolution mechanisms. Both the arbitration and dispute resolution
mechanisms did not function as intended since the concept of binding arbitration is not really accepted by
GOB. This means that unless contractual disputes are resolved amicably they can only be resolved through
the court system which can be very time consuming. Thus, the effectiveness of arbitration and dispute
resolution mechanisms in resolving contractual disputes needs to be revisited to ensure their effectiveness.
8.16   Resolution of claims. The procedure to resolve claims generated by the project has been slow and
cumbersome with some of the claims not having been resolved two years after the completion of the civil
works. This means that a more streamlined claim resolution mechanism needs to be developed for future
large infrastructure projects in Bangladesh. Without it, it could lead to higher bid prices for civil works
since contractors will adjust their bid prices to reflect the probable delays in the settlement of claims.
8.17   Role of NGOs and local authorities. NGOs played a significant role in facilitating the
implementation of the RRAP, EMAP and EFAP funded under the project. They were also instrumental in
triggering the IP prelimninary investigation. Considering the wide variety of performance and capabilities of
NGOs in Bangladesh, it is absolutely essential that a more systematic selection process be adopted to
ensure that only qualified NGOs are selected. To ensure that both cost and quality are taken into
consideration for the evaluation of NGO proposals, a cost based selection process should be considered and
only NGOs that meet certain minimum criteria in terms of track record in designing and implementing
socioeconomic development programs; in house capability in terms of staff and skills; financial resilience;
and in particular the ability to work with PAPs long after the projects are officially closed, should be
short-listed. Furthermore, a system of blacklisting poorly performing NGOs needs to be established to
ensure some form of accountability for their performance. In the longer run, a balanced approach must be
found between the compensation and mitigation efforts necessary to address project-induced impacts, and
more sustainable development efforts benefitting the local population in general. While compensating for
negative impacts is the responsibility of the implementing agency, in this case JMBA, more sustainable
area development efforts are the responsibilities of the local authorities, often working in collaboration with
development NGOs. Efforts should be made to clearly delineate roles and responsibilities, and fit the
mitigation efforts for the displaced population into the broader area development program.
8.18   Continuity of consultant roles. The set of consultants that were involved in preparing the
feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the bridge, approach roads and river training civil works
were retained to supervise the actual construction of the bridge. This arrangement ensured a consistent
engineering approach and minimized the amount of potential conflicts/disputes that could have arisen if
there were a different set of consultants involved in the preparation and project supervision phases. Thus,
in the case of the JBP the arrangement of having the same set of consultant involved in all phases of the
project was a key success factor.
8.19   Management consultant. An intemationally experienced management consultant was selected to
assist JMBA in project implementation. The emphasis on project implementation meant that some of the
consultant knowledge was not adequately transferred to JMBA. Terms of reference with less of a focus on
implementation and more on knowledge transfer might have resulted in a better balance between the
contradicting set of objectives of the services.
8.20   IP. The JBP was one of the first IDA projects that was subjected to the IP complaint process. The
IP complaint was filed by a local NGO alleging violations to IDA's social safeguard policies. Although the
IP preliminary investigation process worked reasonably well, it should be streamlined and made more cost
effective. While complaints from aggrieved parties can never be ruled out, IDA can address these
- 16 -



complaints best by ensuring that attention to social and environmental safeguards are fully incorporated
and well documented in project planning and implementation, and in particular by developing clearer
criteria for ensuring that there is adequate local commitment and capacity to undertake the project.
8.21   Counterpart funding. As a clear demonstration of its commitment to the project, GOB raised and
earmarked a good part of the funding required for implementation before proceeding with the construction
of the Jamuna Bridge started. This meant that despite very large funding requirements during the peak
implementation period, the project never suffered from major fund flow delays. Since funds flow delays
are often cited as one of the most common problems affecting project implementation, serious consideration
should be given by borrowers to put part of the funds required to implement the project in an 'escrow'
account before the implementation of the project actually starts.
8.22   O&M of completed physical works. To ensure the sustainability of the physical investments,
JMBA/GOB have contracted out the O&M and toll collection to an internationally experienced company.
However, taking into consideration that the design life of the bridge is about 100 years, JMBA needs to
review all of the options at its disposal to ensure the long term O&M of the Jamuna Bridge.
8.23   Several lessons were learned from implementing this very important project for Bangladesh. The
most important lesson is that project ownership supported by concrete actions is critical to ensure the
successful implementation of a complex and large project like the JBP. Through the early establishment of
JMBA and the earmarking of funds to meet part of the counterpart funding requirements of the project,
GOB demonstrated a very strong sense of project ownership and commitment. Another important lesson is
that institutions like IDA can play a critical role in mobilizing the necessary funding and expertise to
implement a complex infrastructure project like the JBP. Other important lessons that can be drawn from
implementing the JBP is that the completion of engineering, full site readiness, selection of consultants and
procurement of contractors should be sine qua non conditions for loan/credit effectiveness or even Board
approval. Furthermore, much more attention and, consequently, resources need to be devoted in both
designing and coming up with the appropriate mechanisms to implement the social and environmental
components of large infrastructure projects like the JBP. Finally, the long term O&M arrangements for a
physical investment like the Jamuna Bridge which has a 100-year design life need to be examined carefully
to ensure its operational and financial sustainability.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 12 for Borrower/implementing agency comments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Please see Annex 12 for Cofmanciers' comments.
fc) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Contract No.2                                                               The Works of Contract 2 were substantially
completed on October 16,1997, and the
General                                                                     completion certificate to this effect issued in
Mobilization/Preparation            November 1994                         November 1997.
Stone Supply                        February 1995
East Guide Bund
Dredging Access Channel             June 1994
Dredging East Bank                  April 1995
Fascine MaKtress                    April 1995
Rip Rap Falling Apron               April 1995
Open Stone Asphalt                  April 1995
West Guide Bund
Dredging West Bank incl. Closure    May 1996
Fascine Mattress                    April 1996
Rip Rap Falling Apron               April 1996
Open Stone Asphalt                  April 1996
Closures
Bed Protection                      November 1995
Partial Closure                     March 1996
Final Closure                       November 1996
Temporary Works
Stretch A1-A2                       March 1996
Stretch A2-A3                       October 1995
Stretch A3-A4                       October 1995
Demobilization/clearance              June 1996
Contract No. 1                                                              The Contract 1 Works were substantially
completed on June 20,1998, and the Bridge
Mobilization                                                                opened on June 23,1998.
Mobilization etc.                   June 1995                             Gas pipeline completed November 1999.
Design work
Geotechnical Work                   March 95
Main Bridge                         February 1995
(a) Piles                         September 1995
(b) Substructure                  August 1996
(c) Superstructure
Constructure Work
Main Bridge Work                    July 1996
(a) Pile Work                     July 1996
(b) Substructure Work              November 1997
(c) Superstructure Work           November 1997
Approach Viaducts Work
Contract No. 3                                                              The Works of C3 were substantially
completed on March 31, 1998, and the
Mobilization, etc.                    May 1995                              Completion Certificate to this effect issued
Drainage Provisions                   February 1995                         early April.
Embankment                            October 1995
Granular Sub-base                    January 1995
Agg. Road Base                        February 1996
Asphalt Surfacing                     March 1996
Box Culverts                          February 1996
Slab Bridges                          February 1996
Misc.                                 March 1996
- 18-



Contract No. 4                                                               Works of C4 were substantially completed
on December 1, 1997, and the Completion
Mobilization                          May 1995                               Certificate to that effect issued.
Drainage                              February 1996
Embankment                            October 1995
Granular Sub-base                     January 1996
Agg. Road Base                         February 1996
Asphalt Surfacing                      March 1996
Box Culverts                           February 1996
Slab Bridges                           February 1996
Misc. November 1995                    March 1996
EMAP                                                                         Ongoing - Based on Environment
Management Action Plan
EFAP                                  Milestones will be determined based on  Ongoing - Based on Erosion and Flood
impact assessment and updated         Action Plan
Compensation for flood and erosion affected implementation reports, expected by
people                                 September 2000.
RRAP                                   Milestones will be determined based on  Ongoing - Based on Revised Resettlement
impact assessment and updated         Action Plan
Resettement opportunities             implementation reports, expected by
Compensation for lost land and assets  September 2000.
Livelihood rehabilitation
Original targets are taken from the SAR. There were very few changes made during the project
implementation
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
ect Cost by Coponent (in US million equivalent)_ 
Appraisal     ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost xBy Component             US$ million     US$ million
Main Bridge                                          220.40           222.73           101
River Training                                        244.05          269.57           110
Approach Roads                                         52.90           62.75           118
{Contingency for contract claim (Pending)}                            25.00
Technical Assistance:
Implementation                                     21.00            23.26           110
Institution                                         6.00             6.46           107
Others - Resettlement                                  52.50           35.49            67
Total Baseline Cost                                   596.85          645.26
Physical Contingencies                                56.20           74.96            133
Price Contingencies                                  42.95            33.51            78
Total Project Costs              696.00          753.73
Total Financing Required              696.00           753.73
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NC8         Other N-BF.              Total C'st
1. Works                    620.35        0.00         0.00         46.50        666.85
(191.93)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (191.93)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance      0.00          0.00        22.50         0.00         22.50
Implementation              (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.00)       (0.00)        (7.00)
5. Institution               0.00          0.00         6.65                      6.65
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.07)         (           (1.07)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                    620.35         0.00        29.15         46.50        696.00
(191.93)      (0.00)       (8.07)       (0.00)       (200.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         [CB            NCB         M thod'          N.B.F.       Total Cost
Category  lOB           ~~~NCB        Other
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(189.10)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (189.10)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance          0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Implementation                  (0.00)         (0.00)         (10.01)        (0.00)         (10.01)
5. Institution                   0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.03           0.00           0.00           0.00
(189.10)        (0.00)        (10.01)         (0.00)        (199.11)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Esti mate
Bank      Govt.  I  CoF.       Bank      Govt       CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
Civil Works              190.30     44.50    380.60     193.83     153.62    387.00   101.9  345.2  101.7
TA - Consultant services  9.70      0.00      19.40      10.28                        106.0   0.0    0.0
and Training
0.0    0.0    0.0
-21-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Jamuna Bridge Project
Economic Re-Evaluation At Project Completion
The ICR Mission re-evaluated the project economic analysis based on the latest project data at
project completion. The re-evaluation was undertaken following the same methodology as adopted
during appraisal. All economic cost and benefit streams used in the re-evaluation were expressed in
1993 prices, as was done during appraisal. Except as noted in this annex, all assumptions and key
parameters adopted at appraisal were applied in the economic re-evaluation. It should be noted that
actual project implementation period was almost the same as assumed at appraisal for the economic
analysis. At appraisal, the economic analysis was undertaken with the assumption that the
construction would start in April 1994 and the bridge would be opened to traffic in July 1998. In
reality, the construction started in October 1994, and the bridge was opened to traffic in June 1998.
The revisions made in the economic re-evaluation and the resulting economic performance indicators
are described below.
I. Change in Costs
At present, there are still some uncertainties regarding the capital costs of the project because a large
amount of standing claims from the four major civil works contractors have not yet been settled. The
fimancial costs of these standing claims (apart from the claims already accepted by JMBA) amount to
$124 million. To arrive at a reasonable final cost for the project, the re-evaluation assumed that
one-third of these claims totaling $40 million would be accepted by the JMBA. With this assumption
and taking into account costs of approved variation orders, the final financial cost of the project as
identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) reached $717 million. This represents a 3% increase
over the appraisal estimate of $696 million. It should be noted that the project also incurred
expenditures for reimbursement of taxes and custom duties, exchange losses, etc., which were not
included in the SAR. If these costs were included, the total project costs would reach $908 million.
To arrive at economic costs in the re-evaluation, all contract price adjustment payments for inflation
as well as all taxes and custom duties were excluded from the final contract costs for civil works and
consultancies. The local currency costs were converted to economic cost by applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.89, as at appraisal. While the foreign exchange financial costs were converted
to economic costs by using the border prices. After adjusting the financial costs into economic costs,
the resulting final economic cost of the project was estimated at $660 million, a 5.3% rise from $627
million estimated at appraisal. Reflecting the increase in capital costs, the operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs of the bridge and river training works were adjusted proportionally to the increase in
capital costs, as well as to reflect the expected increase in O&M requirements from the O&M
contract. The resulting O&M financial costs have been increased from an annual average of $2.7
million at appraisal to $3.8 million (in 1993 prices) during the economic life of the project.
The annual distribution of the project's capital costs was revised based on the actual disbursement
occurred up to June 1999. The revised distribution of the capital costs were spread over the period
of 1994 to 1998, with most of the costs (74%) incurring during 1995 to 1997. In contrast, the
appraisal estimate of total investment during the period of 1994 and 1995 was larger than the actual
investment during the first two years of the project. The change in the phasing of investment was
mainly due to delay in the start of construction, and consequently the revision of cash flow projection
- 22 -



of the contractors as compared to appraisal schedule. However, as the appraisal evaluation
conservatively assumed the Bridge's opening year at mid 1998, the beginning year of the Bridge
benefit streams remained unchanged as at appraisal.
Taking into account the cost increase and change in disbursement profile, the project's economic
rates of return was re-estimated. The result indicated that the impact of the cost increase on the
project's EIRR is minimal. The negative impact of the project's cost increase on EIRR was mostly
offset by the positive impact of the change of disbursement profile.
II. Changes in Benefits
a. Traffic Benefits
The ICR Team obtained actual bridge crossing traffic data from the JMBA, as well as the traffic data
over the Aricha-Nagabari Ferry crossing from the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
for the period of June 1998 (Bridge opening) to December 1999. From the actual bridge-crossing
traffic data, the ICR mission calculated the actual annualized average daily traffic (AADT) volumes
based on the same vehicle classification used at appraisal. In addition, actual bridge-crossing traffic
growth rates for the period of 1993-1997 was inferred, and compared with the projection for the
same period made at appraisal. The AADT of 1998-1999 derived from the actual traffic volumes was
also compared with the projected AADT of 1998 made at appraisal. The motor cycle traffic was
excluded in the analysis, as was done at appraisal. The summary of the comparison is shown in the
table below.
Trucks      Buses    Light Vehicles   Average/Total
Appraisal Projection:
(i) AADT in opening year      1093         340          196             1,630
(1998)
(ii) Growth rate (1993-1997)    6.6%     6.6%          8.2%            7.5%
Actual at Completion:
(iii) AADT in opening year     920         799          575             2,294
(1998-99)
(iv) Growth rate (1993-1998)    3.6%     24.1%         32.7%           18.1%
in AADT: (iii)/(i)          -16%        135%          193%            41%
There are two main findings from the comparison. First, the actual total traffic volume at completion
was substantially higher than the appraisal estimates, but truck traffic was lower than the appraisal
projection. The actual AADT in the opening year of the bridge (1998-99) was 2,294 vehicles,
compared with the appraisal projection of 1,630 vehicles, a 41% increase. Secondly, the actual
growth rate of truck traffic during 1993-1998 was lower than the appraisal estimate, while the actual
growth rates of light vehicle and bus traffic were significantly higher than the appraisal estimates.
The actual higher-than-expected traffic volumes for light vehicles and buses in the first year of bridge
opening may be explained by three main factors:
- 23 -



(i) the recreational visit to the Bridge as a sightseeing trip by the Bangladesh in the first year after
the bridge opening. Indeed, the bridge has been perceived as a major attraction for the Bangladeshi.
For the recreational visitors of the bridge, light vehicles and buses were the means of travel. This
kind of traffic was considered abnornal and was not projected to continue after the first year. The
estimation of first year AADT excluded traffic data during the period of June 1998- August 1998;
(ii) the conservative assumption adopted at appraisal regarding the build-up of induced traffic. It was
assumed at appraisal that induced traffic will take 8 years to materialize, starting at 20% in 1998.
Based on the ICR analysis, it appeared that the assumption remain valid for the freight traffic, the
building-up of which depends on the business demand response and general economic development,
and it does take time. However, for passenger traffic, the build up time appeared to be short. People
seemed to have little trouble realizing the benefits of the bridge, and bridge-induced trip demand
increased rapidly following the opening of the bridge. Less than 5% of the light vehicle and bus
traffic over the Jamuna corridor remains with the Aricha-Nagabari ferry crossing; and
(iii) the relatively low level of bridge toll on bus, in comparison with the ferry tariff. At appraisal, it
was assumed that the bridge toll would be set at equivalent to the levels of ferry tariffs on different
kinds of vehicles without the bridge.
The lower-than-expected truck traffic over the bridge could be explained by the following factors: (i)
the relatively high toll level on truck (Tk 1,000 per truck per one-way bridge crossing as comparing
to about Tk 700 per ferry crossing) appeared to have depressed traffic diversion; (ii) the various
incentives provided to truck drivers in Aricha-Nagabari Ferry seemed to have attracted some truck
traffic to remain with the ferry; (iii) the waiting time for truck traffic crossing the river has been
minimized as 70% of the truck traffic in the Jamuna corridor has diverted to the Bridge; and (iv) the
main road corridor link from Dhaka area to the Bridge site has been under undergoing widening and
upgrading since 1998 under the Jamuna Bridge Access Road Project (a separate project funded by
ADB). The construction activities have depressed truck traffic diversion somewhat, since truck
traffic have more flexibility in choosing route compared with bus traffic. However, the completion of
the road project by mid 2002 should stimulate truck traffic diversion to use the Bridge.
The actual growth rates between 1993 and 1998 have been adopted as the growth rates before the
bridge opening in mid-1998 in the revised economic analysis. However, in keeping with the
conservative assumptions made during appraisal, the traffic forecast for the period of 1998-2025 has
remained the same as at appraisal at 5%. After 2025, traffic benefits were assumed to be constant, as
was done at appraisal. Reflecting on the actual traffic growth pattern, the build-up period for bus
and light vehicle traffic has been revised to two years, while build-up period for truck traffic was
assumed to be eight years, same as at appraisal. Similarly, vehicle waiting time and ferry crossing
time have been assumed to be the same as adopted at appraisal.
As a result of the revised traffic volume compared with appraisal projection, the project's EIRR was
affected. While the higher bus and light vehicle traffic increased the passenger traffic benefit
substantially, the increase of passenger traffic benefits were offset by the reduction in freight benefits
as a result of the lower-than-expected truck traffic volume, and the significance of freight traffic
benefit in the project's benefit streams. Therefore, despite the significant rise in total traffic volume,
the project's overall traffic benefits at project completion did not increase accordingly.
- 24 -



b. Energy sector benefits
In the absence of the Jamuna Bridge, the scenario at appraisal was that the Bangladesh Power
Development Board would need to construct a stand-alone power interconnector across Jamuna to
carry power from east to west, at a financial cost of about $114 million during 1998-2000, whereas
the bridge would carry this power transmission at a cost of about $6 million. The required electricity
pylons have been constructed on the Bridge for transmitting electric power from both sides of the
river. Benefit was taken at appraisal for the net difference in economic costs for power transmission
across the river in the with and without bridge scenario. This aspect of energy benefit remained
unchanged at project completion.
Taking natural gas across the river from east to west to produce power in the west was not
considered a viable alternative in the absence of the Bridge as an underwater gas pipeline was
estimated to cost about $250 million, and was considered difficult in practice. However, now that
the bridge has been completed, the Power Development Board has decided to take gas across the
river using the Jamuna Bridge for producing power on the western side (in Sirajganj) of the river
until such time when gas is discovered and developed on the west side of the river. The gas pipeline
on the Bridge was completed and commissioned in late November 1999. As such, the gas sector
aspect of the energy benefits can now be quantified and included in the project's benefit streams. In
the without gas pipeline on the bridge scenario, fuels would be used for power generation and other
applications in the west side in the period until gas is discovered and developed. The benefit to the
project would be the savings of consuming gas in power plants and other applications instead of
using more costly imported gas oils as the alternative. In addition, the cost of power transmission
lines on land and related installations will also be saved. The distance of transmission lines from
power plant in the east to the Bridge and from the Bridge to the Sirajganj power plant in the west is
about 160 kin, costing about $100 million. In contrast, the required length of the gas pipeline is
about 40 km since gas had already been brought close to the west side of the Bridge for other
industrial uses before the bridge construction finished, and its construction cost was estimated at
about $20 million. The net economic cost saving to the project was estimated to be about $130
million in 1993 prices. The revised economic analysis included this additional savings, which was
assumed to be spread over 1998-2000. However, because the economic evaluation in the SAR did
not quantify the gas pipeline benefit (there was great deal of uncertainty in quantifying this aspect of
the benefits at that time), the re-evaluation also estimated the project EIRR with the gas pipeline
benefit excluded from the project benefits.
In addition, the gas pipeline will make it easier and much cheaper to transmit gas from the west to
the east and for potential export, when the gas is discovered and developed in the west. The
government has entered into exploration contracts with international gas companies to explore and
develop gas field in the west side of the river. It was expected that first gas field production will start
in 2005-2006. However, the potential benefit of gas discovery and development in the west was not
included in the original economic analysis nor in the economic re-evaluation.
- 25 -



III. The economic re-evaluation results and sensitivity analysis
Following the similar methodology adopted at appraisal, and taking into account the changes in
project costs, traffic benefits and energy sector benefits as discussed above, it was estimated that the
project's economic viability has slightly improved. The composite base EIRR of the project at
completion was estimated at 16.8%, 2.3 percentage points higher than the appraisal estimate of
14.5%. The base estimate of the project's net present value at completion was $275 million,
compared with appraisal estimate of $182 millior.
The base economic viability indicators were subject to the following sensitivity analyses. (i) Pending
on the final settlement of the outstanding claims between the contractors and JMBA, the final costs
of the project may be revised from what is currently assumed for the re-evaluation. As part of the
re-evaluation, without commenting on the validity of the claims, it was assumed that only 33% of the
outstanding claims were to be assessed as valid to arrive at the base EIRR at completion. If 50% of
those claims were to be accepted by JMBA, the project's EIRR would be reduced to 16.2% from
16.8%, as the final economic costs would have increased to $681 million. (ii) If gas pipeline savings
were excluded from the project's benefit streams, the project's EIRR would be reduced to 15.3%
from 16.8%. (iii) If the traffic benefits were to decrease by 20%, the project's EIRR would be
reduced to 15.0%. (iv) In the worst case scenario, were the project costs increased by 20% and the
traffic benefits reduced by 20%, the project's EIRR would fall to 13.0%, but the project would still
remain viable. The summary of economic re-evaluation and sensitivity analyses are shown below:
Base EIRR at 50% of claims Excluding gas    20%         Cost (+20%)       Base EIRR
Completion    accepted      pipeline    reduction in    and benefits    at Appraisal
benefits   traffic benefits  (-20%)
16.8%        16.4%         15.3%        15.0%           13.0%           14.5%
IV. Other Potential Benefits Not Quantified
As discussed in the SAR, the EIRR estimated above excludes many substantial potential benefits to
the country which are not easy to quantify. In the without bridge scenario, the high cost of freight
traffic crossing the river has effectively created a "non-tariff barrier" to trade crossing the river,
incurring heavy economic losses to the economy on both sides of the river. The elimination of the"
trade barrier" by the Bridge will lead to more efficient flow of goods and services within the country,
and stimulate economic development in the northwest of the country, which is relatively
underdeveloped but has abundant natural resources. In addition, the multi-purpose nature of the
Bridge facilities implies that the Bridge can also help improve railway link, telecommunications,
power, and gas transmission, in addition to road link. All of these facilities would help bring about a
structural change of the economy. However, the benefits from these structural changes will take time
to materialize, and can not be quantified confidently at this time. Also, these potential benefits will
require the support of a comprehensive development program to complement the construction of the
Bridge.
- 26 -



To this end, it should be pointed out various initiatives have been undertaken by the government with
donor assistance to promote the economic development in the northwest part of the country. An
agricultural development master plan has been developed for the northwest, and an agricultural
development loan is under processing by the ADB to support the agricultural growth in the areas.
IDA assistance has also been underway for improvement of priority road network in the northwest to
facilitate the area's development. Under ADB assistance, a railway line has been laid on the Bridge,
and railway tracks on both sides of the Bridge linking existing railway network have been under
construction and are expected to be completed by 2002. Also, the road corridor between Dhaka and
the Bridge has been undergoing widening and upgrading.
Furthermore, the economic analysis at appraisal did not include benefits due to potential emergence
of Indian transit traffic (from north-central India to northeastern states like Tripuri and Assam)
through the Bridge. The advantage of such transit traffic is clear since the distance through this route
will be reduced by at least 200 km per trip. However, the materialization of such a benefit will
depend critically on the ongoing discussions between India and Bangladesh in this regard, and the
political climate of the two countries. It is estimated that about 6 million tons of goods move
annually from north-central India via the Indian states of West Bengal, to Assam and other northeast
states of India. It is likely that at least two million tons of this traffic could move through the Bridge.
The total annual transport cost savings from this transit route is estimated to be at least $24.0 million
equivalent, of which Bangladesh should claim at least half of the benefit through toll charges.
However, because it is currently not certain what mode of transport this transit traffic will likely take
and when the traffic will materialize, this additional project benefit was not included in the revised
economic evaluation of the mid-term review mission (the inclusion of this benefit will increase the
project's EIRR by one percentage point).
In terms of impacts on the local community and economy, studies indicate that the benefits have been
substantial on the eastern side of the bridge, while the western side has experienced more problems
such as greater difficulties in handling the resettlement process, and reduction in earnings among
many of the affected people. A preliminary impact assessment estimates that the percentage of
people earning more than 5,000 taka per month has gone from 40% to 50% in Tangail, while it has
declined from 23% to 17% in Sirajganj. A limited beneficiary survey indicates far higher levels of
satisfaction on the Tangail side.
While the overall benefits of the bridge are indisputable, these concerns demonstrate
the challenges in addressing localized, negative impacts and ensuring that local
communities are given the necessary support.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                          Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/89                           3    EG, FA, OA
04/90                           4    EG, FA, EC, TS
07/90                           3    EG, EC, FA
05/92                           4    RE, TS
10/92                           1   PR
01/93                           2    RE
03/93                           1   EG
05/93                           2    RE, TS
08/93                           2    EG, EC
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/93                           8    AN, EG, EC, TS, FA, EO,
LC
Supervision
04/94                           5   RE, EG, DB, EV, LC                     HS                 HS
07/94                           2   EG, EC
09/94                           4   EV, EG, RE, TS                         HS                  HS
03/95                           3   EG, TS, EC                              S                  S
10/95                           7  EO, EG, EC, TS, RE                       S                  S
03/96                           5   EC, EG, EV, TS, RE                      S                  S
07/96                           5   EG, RE, TS, EC, EV                      S                  S
12/96                           6  EC, EG, TS, EV, RE, SS                   S                  S
03/97                           2   TS, EV                                  S                  S
10/97                           6  EG, TS, FA, EV, RE, SS                   S                  S
03/98                           4   EG, TS, EV, SS                          S                  S
10/98                           5   TS, EV, RE, EG, FA                      S                  S
05/99                           4   EG, TS, TA, RE
ICR
01/2000                         7   FA, TS, EC, EG, AN, RE,                 S                  S
DB
EG - Engineer, FA - Financial Analyst, OA - Operations Analyst, RE - Resettlement, TS - Transport Specialist, PR -
Procurement, EC - Economist, AN - Anthropology, EO - Ecologist, LC - Legal Counsel, DB - Disbursement, EV -
Environment, SS - Social Scientist, TA - Team Assistant
It should be noted that in addition to supervision missions, project team members based in Dhaka have had ongoing dialogue
and interaction with JMBA and the other development partners including NGOs.
- 28 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation            330.2                       900.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                  61.6                       203.9
Supervision                           349.6                       895.1
ICR                                    26.2                        50.9
Total                                 767.6                      2050.2
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                  *H OSUOM ON ONA
Financial                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
X Institutional Development                 O H  O SU 0 M  O N  0 NA
Environmental                              O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
FGender                              O H OSUOM O N * NA
C0 Other (Please specify)
S Private sector development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                     O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social impacts related to resettlement and
displacement (RRAP and EMAP)
*Objectives = relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
Outputs  = relates to the outputs specified in the PAD
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
D Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
O Supervision                                       *HS OS  OU  OHU
I Overall                                           * HS OS  O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       *HS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project: 1994-2000
2. Status Report as of March 31, 1998 - Presentation to Board
3. Jamuna Bridge Project Staff Appraisal Report dated January 24, 1994
4. Jarnuna Bridge Project Legal Document - February 1994
5. 1997 - Toll Study
6. Rapid Assessment
- 32 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A limited, mainly qualitative impact assessment has been carried out for the RRAP and EFAP programs.
The conclusions and arguments in this report are partly based on the draft report from this study, in
addition to earlier supervision missions and other reports. The final report from the study will be available
in July 2000, and will be discussed with JMBA and the co-financiers. Based on these discussions, a
decision will be taken regarding follow up requirements in terms of additional data requirements, future
supervision, and possible further support efforts to the affected population.
- 33 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Minutes of Stakeholder Workshop on
Intensive Learning Report of
Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project
held on January 23, 2000
A one-day stakeholder workshop was held on January 23, 2000 at NEC Bhaban-2,
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka-1207. The meeting was chaired by Mr. A.K. Abdul Mobin, Secretary,
Jamuna Bridge Division. The meeting was moderated by Mr. Abdul Muyeed Chowdhury, Secretary,
Internal Resources Division and Chairman, NBR. The meeting was attended by senior officers from
different Ministries, Govemment and non-government organizations, Professors of Bangladesh University
of Engineering and Technology (BUET), development partners like World Bank (WB), Japan Bank for
Intemational Cooperation (JBIC), distinguished guests and PAPs participated in the workshop. At the start
of the plenary session, Mr. Abdul Muyeed Chowdhury, immediate predecessor of Dr. Mobin, discussed his
experience with the project.
Mr. Chowdhury described the project and its implementation. He provided an overview on the
performance of the contractors and consultants. Mr. Muyeed Chowdhury said, "Nothing succeeds like
success, we are all happy that the project has successfully been completed". He reiterated that it would be
naive and foolish to say that there was no problem in such a big project. Three consecutive governments
were associated with the project. "Problems sometimes were created by people with ulterior motive,
sometimes unknowingly," he added.
Mr. Chowdhury discussed the 'crack problem' of the project. He said, that it might happen in
civil engineering projects but newspapers tried to make a mountain out of this mole. "Finally we could
catch the bull by hom and bury the 'crack'." He said there were problems in land acquisition, particularly
in the system of record keeping and record creation. People also doubted whether or not the project would
be conceived, if conceived whether the fund would be available, if fund was available, whether the
construction work of the project would start, and if the work starts whether the work would be completed.
Having said all of these, Mr. Muyeed Chowdhury observed that..."by global standards the
Jamuna Bridge Project was implemented in time and without price escalation. It is now making money. I
am of the opinion, if need is established, go for this work and don't listen to the economists".
Thereafter, Dr. A.K. Abdul Mobin requested Mr. Omar Hadi, Secretary, Ministry of Civil
Aviation and former Addl. Secretary, Jamuna Bridge Division (JBD), to deliver his view from his
experience. Mr. Omar Hadi said that the idea of a bridge over the Jamuna was conceived in 1964 (in the
Provincial Assembly of the erstwhile East Pakistan). In 1985 an authority was created by an Ordinance.
As administrative action by an authority was not adequate in this regard, a Division was formed under the
name Jamuna Bridge Division. At the same time the Government promulgated a law to raise surcharge and
levies for the internal expenditure of the project he added. Besides, the Government made some laws for
land acquisition so that affected people might benefit.
Mr. Omar Hadi pointed out that unfortunately the transfer of technology did not exist in this
project, because only three things were in the project document "look, listen, and learn". The result is the
present sufferings. He reiterated that there was much lacking on the part of administration regarding
- 34 -



transfer of technology. Mr. Abdul Muyeed Chowdhury said "we cannot blame the contractors or
co-financiers in this regard. Proper organizational arrangement of JMBA was faulty so that new
manpower was not recruited. If we really needed transfer of technology, he said proper organization set-up
had certainly been there. We all come on deputation and go back with memories."
Mr. Benu Gopal Dey, Project Director (PD) Resettlement, presented his paper and showed
RRAP activities using slides. He explained the performance of resettlement activities in detail. Mr. Shahid
Alam, former PD of the project, also shared his experience on the resettlement of PAPs.
The Danish Hydraulic Institute (DHI) representative discussed the actual course of the Jamuna,
showing erosions of the river with slides. Mr. Shafiqur Rahman, Professor BUET wanted to know about
some 'unforeseen' issues. He said, during feasibility study conditions of the river were not properly looked
into and because of this many cases have cropped up. Quazi Mahbudul Haq, consultant, Bangladesh
Consultants Limited (BCL) took part in the discussion saying "JMBP is not that important on the count of
engineering as it is on human consideration. JMBA has got an excellent prospect to move from the 20
century to the next, but the contractors have not. He also said "project is for the welfare of the people but
got secondary attention. Resettlement was a fantastic job he said. Jamuna Bridge is a means towards an
end, not the end in itself. This is the lesson we have learnt from the project."
Dr. Jafarullah Chowdhury representative of Ganosastho expressed satisfaction on the
performance of resettlement. He said "resettlement is a new concept in our country. JMBA has done an
excellent job for rehabilitation of the project affected persons (PAPs)."
In the second session, the BRAC representatives presented their paper on EFAP. They said
three types of compensation were given to affected persons. PAPs from Resettlement and Environmment
Unit also participated in the workshop. They threw light on some issues they confront at length. They
demanded some agro-based industry like hatcheries. An Officer of Rural Development Movement also
took part in the workshop and narrated resettlement activities conducted by BRAC.
In this regard, the Secretary, JBD, said that was not needed for the opening of the spill channel.
Mr. Aziz, Director, BCL, taking part in discussion said that there was no consultant for
Dhaleswari I and II. He said, the contracts for Jamuna Bridge Project were prepared on the basis of
F6d6ration International des Ingenieurs Conseils for which most of the points of the contracts were
unknown to the Bangladesh Engineers. But there is no doubt that our engineers have learnt many things
and gained knowledge. Thus we can say that the transfer of technology has been made, he added.
Mr. Fabio Galli, representative of the World Bank said "JMBP is clearly a successful project,
no doubt. Unwavering and total commitment of the Govermnent has been fulfilled. This was not in words,
in deeds also." However, he said "everything was under one umbrella, implementation could have not been
more effective if those were separately implemented".
Mr. M.M. Mannan, Coordinator for JMBP and transport specialist of the World Bank
congratulated the participants. He said "This is borrower's project. This is GOB's project." Uninterrupted
payment was made to the contractors. However, he indicated that land records were now totally outdated.
- 35-



Mr. Ismail Mobarek, Port Specialist, World Bank, said "it is a proof to everybody that the
projects in Bangladesh could be done timely and successfully. I have been associated with another project
in Bangladesh for 10 years but the project has not yet been completed."
Closing remarks: Many of the participants indicated that they found the workshop informative.
They said that ..."the bridge has been completed successfully, now successful maintenance is required."
- 36 -



Annex 10. Issues Related to Resettlement and Rehabilitation
A. Introduction
This annex summarizes some of the key issues, challenges, and lessons learned related to
resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) in the Jamuna Bridge project. It argues that the project constitutes a
landmark in addressing social impacts caused by development projects in Bangladesh, and has established
several important principles and implementation mechanisms. Implementation of these principles has
proven harder than originally envisaged, and there are still outstanding issues and concerns related to
resettlement in the project. Not all compensation has been paid, and some among the PAPs are reported to
have been unable to reestablish their previous levels of income. Overall, however, the project has been
largely successful given the weak organizational capacity at the start of the project period.
B. Policies and action Plans
Land Acquisition Issues. Nearly 3,000 hectares of land were acquired by the Government of
Bangladesh to build the bridge, approach roads, guide bunds, and other infrastructure work needed for the
Jamuna Bridge. This affected almost 100,000 people, who were displaced or otherwise affected through
loss of land and assets. Normally, the land acquisition for infrastructure works would have been
undertaken in accordance with the Bangladeshi legal framework. The country's Land Acquisition Act
dates back to colonial times, although it has been modified and amended since then.
Resettlement Policy. Since the project was financed with assistance from IDA, the World Bank's
OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement applied. This supplements national laws and practices in three main
areas:
- it requires that land acquisition and displacement be avoided or minimized where possible;
- it requires people losing land or other assets be compensated at full replacement cost (whereas
the normal practice in Bangladesh has been to compensate the recorded value of the land
plus a certain percentage as additional compensation for the involuntary
nature of the land acquisition); and
- it requires that people losing livelihood opportunities as a result of the project be assisted in
reestablishing their income levels to at least pre-project levels
The basic principle of the World Bank's resettlement policy is that people affected by a project
should share in its benefits, and at the very least not be worse off as a result of the project. Additionally,
the World Bank emphasizes consultations and a high level of participation by the affected population. To
the extent possible, people should be assisted in R&R through a process of informed choice.
In Bangladesh, the level of poverty is high; the population density is high; and the availability of
replacement land is low. During the project preparations it was therefore agreed that providing
replacement land to all displaced persons would not be a viable option. Instead, the project would ensure
that people were given sufficient cash compensation to enable them to replace their lost land through
private purchases, or make other investments. The project was to facilitate this process. Additionally,
support was to be given to those suffering a reduction in incomes, to ensure that they were adequately
rehabilitated and assisted in finding new or alternative livelihood opportunities. It was recognized that this
constituted a risk, in that poor people are frequently unable to make productive use of a large cash grant,
and that the money might be spent on consumption rather than on replacement land, homestead, or
investment in income opportunities. The project therefore has the responsibility to assist people in making
the best use of the compensation money provided.
- 37 -



These and other principles were agreed on in the overall resettlement policy of the project. This
was judged by IDA's technical experts and Legal Department to be in compliance with OD 4.30. It should
be noted that this was the first time in Bangladesh that such a broad, comprehensive development approach
was taken to address social impacts of infrastructure projects. There was initial reluctance on GOB's side
to adopt this approach, since it was felt that this would add unnecessary cost and complexity to the project,
and raise expectations for similar support mechanisms in other projects, whether they were funded by IDA
or not. Experience has shown, however, that implementation of the resettlement program has been carried
out reasonably satisfactorily, and has provided a valuable learning experience and a precedent for improved
handling of social impacts in such projects in Bangladesh. It is now expected that the Jamuna Bridge
policy framework will form an important input to the new, national policy framework on involuntary
resettlement, which is currently under preparation.
RRAP. The project preparation entailed surveys and studies of the impact area, and a census of
the likely affected population. A detailed plan of action was developed, describing support mechanisms,
actions to be taken, organizational responsibilities, budgets, and a framework for monitoring and
evaluation. This was approved in 1993 as the Revised Resettlement Action Plan. Overall, the project
acquired nearly 3,000 hectares of land, leading to physical displacement and other impacts on nearly
100,000 people. Depending on the categories of losses suffered, a detailed entitlement database was
developed for all the persons entitled to support under the policy. In many cases, an individual or a
household was entitled to various types of compensation or support, since they were affected by more than
one type of impact (loss of land, buildings, crops, etc.)
In implementing the resettlement program and the EFAP (see next section), several innovative
solutions have been adopted. For instance, the seasonal changes brought about through the river's flooding
and movement have been captured through satellite imagery. These images have been used as supporting
documentation in determining support and compensation to flood and erosion affected people.
EFAP and IP Investigation. In the original resettlement policy, it was recognized that the project
might impact on other areas or populations not initially recognized during the planning phase. Provision
was therefore made for the policy framework to be updated or amended in accordance with the general
principles. This proved to be an important provision, since concerns were raised early on that the bridge
works would change the natural flow of the Jamuna river. This might lead to increased flooding or erosion,
potentially displacing more people.
IDA supervision missions engaged in a dialogue with GOB on this issue on various occasions,
requesting that support mechanisms be developed to assist victims of increased flooding or erosion. As
with the earlier policy discussions on the resettlement framework, the Government was reluctant to
establish this principle. Erosion and flooding are ongoing, common phenomena in Bangladesh, and it is
rare to find any community with a stable population that goes back several generations. Having to move
because of flooding or erosion is not unusual. The Government also pointed out the difficulty in
distinguishing between flooding or erosion occurring naturally, and that which is induced by a project such
as the Jamuna Bridge.
This issue was still being debated when, in 1996, a local NGO filed a complaint with the World
Bank's independent IP, charging that the Bank had not complied with its own mandatory safeguard
policies. Specifically, they argued that project-induced flooding and erosion would displace poor people
living on the chars, the sandbanks and islands in the river. After a preliminary investigation, the Panel
concluded that the Bank was largely in compliance, but it criticized the project for insufficient involvement
and participation by the affected population.
- 38 -



The IP investigation and renewed efforts from the Bank contributed to the adoption of the EFAP
(Erosion and Flood Action Plan) from 1996/97 onwards. It was agreed that people living within a
delimited area upstream and downstream from the bridge works would be given assistance if they suffered
displacement or losses from erosion or flooding, within a limited number of years. Beyond this time, it was
agreed that erosion and flooding should be considered natural and no longer project induced. It was also
agreed that all affected people within this area would be given assistance. This is a generous but practical
approach, since it is not possible to determine exactly the amount or boundary limits for natural and
induced flooding or induced erosion within the impact area.
It should be noted that the EFAP approach is significantly harder to implement than the RRAP. In
the case of the RRAP, land acquisition and displacement is planned, and compensation and assistance can
and should be organized in advance of actual displacement taking place. In the case of the EFAP, the
opposite is the case: People do not become entitled to support until they have actually been displaced by
flooding or erosion, and the amount and location of this is wholly unpredictable.
The adoption of this principle is a highly significant milestone. For the first time in Bangladesh,
and possibly anywhere in the world, the Government has accepted responsibility for compensating and
assisting people suffering from flooding or erosion caused by a development project. It remains to be seen
whether the principles will be adopted in other, similar projects.
C. Challenges
The section above described some of the early challenges related to establishing frameworks and
policies to address issues of displacement and resettlement. The implementation of the RRAP and EFAP
has made a number of other issues and challenges apparent. They include:
v   Coordination of Social and Environmental Impacts in Infrastructure Projects. Addressing social
and environmental issues adequately requires that these concems be taken into account throughout the
entire project cycle. They should be part of feasibility studies, design choices, implementation
mechanisms, outcome monitoring, etc. This has only been partly successful in the case of the Jamuna
Bridge project. While an integrated coordination mechanism was established within the JMBA, this
was only to address impacts after design choices had been made. There was little or no attempt to
address social impacts in planning designs and civil works. The most serious mistake made in this
context was the excessive land acquisition undertaken for the project. Far more land was acquired than
actually required, and large numbers of people have been displaced unnecessarily. During
implementation, implementation of the various components should be synchronized and coordinated,
for example to ensure that displacement does not take place before people have been properly
compensated, and have an alternative location to move to. This has not always been the case.
*  Resettlement sites and self-relocation. The project has established resettlement sites both on the east
and west banks. While this is a requirement where large displacement takes place, reports indicate that
the option to move to a resettlement site should be combined with assistance towards self-relocation. In
many cases, those who managed to choose their own new home among friends or family have fared
better than those who have moved into the resettlement site.
Reports also indicate that the eastern resettlement site in Tangail has been much more successful than
the site on the west bank. This has been credited to the fact that most of a village moved as a group in
Tangail, thereby maintaining the networks and support mechanisms they already had established. This
was expressed by one of the PAPs, who said:
- 39 -



"Men can sustain hardship for a long time but do not want to break social bondage of long
duration".
(Reported in resettlement evaluation, June 2000)
It has been reported that in contrast, many of the occupants in the resettlement site on the west bank are
landless poor from Sirajganj, who have been moved far from their original homes. In some cases, they
have not been displaced by the Jamuna Bridge project, but have become homeless or landless either by
natural erosion or river embankments constructed in Sirajganj.
*   Capacity and institutional sustainability. It is not a surprise that attention to social impacts has
proven difficult to integrate and coordinate into the overall project management. The project objectives
have been defined in technical terms, and decisions have been made by technical experts who do not
have the training or background to incorporate social or environmental considerations. Given this
limitation, much has been accomplished, both in terms of gradually developing internal coordination
capacity through the JMBA's Resettlement Unit, and through outsourcing of work and partnership with
other institutions such as local NGOs who have more experience in community organizing, income
generation activities, etc.
At the end of the project period it is uncertain whether sufficient capacity has been developed for
JMBA to coordinate these issues in the future. In particular, it has become clear that much greater
emphasis has to be placed on implementation mechanisms, institutional capacity, and incentives, rather
than just on the policy, preparation, and prescriptions of resettlement planning. For JMBA to be able
to address these issues in the future will require sustained efforts, adequate resources, and continued
collaboration with other agencies.
*   Ensuring adequate compensation. It was agreed that the balance between the legally recognized
compensation and the full, market-based replacement cost for lost land and assets would be covered
through a payment which the NGOs working on the project would be responsible for. Establishing this
additional payment, known as MARV, has proven difficult, It has also led to frequent delays, since the
MARV payment could not be made until the formal land acquisition payment which the revenue
authorities in the district were responsible for. Numerous complaints have been made about delays and
other problems in getting these payments expedited.
To some extent, these problems have been caused by inadequate land records and the difficulties in
verifying claims. The result, however, has been that many PAPs have not received their full
compensation in time, and have been unable to purchase new land. Some have also produced fictitious
documentation of land transactions, often among friends or relatives, to be given the various grants and
compensation amounts they are entitled to. In some cases, this has been done to expedite the process,
but in other cases this constitutes attempts to defraud the project, for example by claiming
compensation for fictitious structures, or by claiming higher values than what the assets are worth.
Frequently, this has been done in collusion with local authorities. This is described in more detail in
the next section.
*   Gender issues. The project has enhanced women's status and access to resources in relation to land
ownership, since title to new land is being registered in both husband's and wife's name. The limited
impact evaluation indicates that some women have benefited from income generating activities, which
have been more targeted and suitable for women than for men. On the negative side, there are reports
that demands for dowry have increased substantially with more money available among the PAPs.
-40 -



* Governance issues. Concerns have been raised about demands for unofficial payments of "speed
money", as it is known in Bangladesh, before people have been given the compensation they are entitled
to. Fraudulent claims and collusion among local, powerful people have led to excessive compensation
payments, while in some cases the poorest among the PAPs have been unable to get the full support
they are entitled to. Reports indicate that a standard "transaction fee" of ten percent of the
compensation amount has been common in cases where the PAPs could document ownership and had
all the papers in order. If they did not have all the papers in order, the fee was higher.
A serious problem arose early on with fraudulent claims being made for structures, particularly in the
area of the western approach road. Several thousand structures were erected after the agreed-upon
cut-off date for entitlements, in the hope of getting additional compensation. It seems clear that in
many cases, this was instigated by local elites, who hoped to gain from this. Legislation was passed to
make this practice illegal, and the structures were for the most part dismantled. Nevertheless, many
people were compensated excessively, while it has also been reported that some legitimate PAPs lost
their structures without compensation in the move to prevent these fraudulent claims.
The evaluation undertaken in the spring of 2000 indicates that these issues and impacts have been
considerably more serious on the western side of the Jamuna, in Siraj ganj district. On the east bank, in
Tangail, there has been less conflict, and local leaders have been more supportive of the villagers.
Overall, social cohesion, support, and community development seems to have been more successful on
the east bank than on the western side, although it is unclear exactly what has caused this. The
changes and disruptions brought about by the Jamuna Bridge project may have contributed to the
problems on the west side, but if so, that does not explain why people on the eastern side seem to have
been able to cope better.
* The Role of NGOs. Several local NGOs have worked on different aspects of the resettlement
program, both in the initial planning stage (BRAC undertook the first socio-economic surveys on
behalf of the project authorities), and through implementation. The role of the NGOs has not been an
easy one. They have been regarded as contractors by the project authorities, and have had as their
main mandate to provide delivery of certain services such as compensation payments and training.
They have also participated in the monitoring and reporting of the process, although the focus has been
on inputs and immediate outputs rather than outcomes and results.
The first draft of the limited impact assessment suggests that the NGOs could have played a much
more productive role if they also were asked to play a greater role in community organizing,
information campaigns, and more responsibility in addressing grievances.
Concerns have also been raised about the capacity of NGOs to undertake this type of work, and in
some cases accusations have been made about collusion between NGOs, local elites, and politicians in
diverting funds from the project. Clearer guidelines need to be developed to set standards for selection
of NGOs, their roles and responsibilities, and how to ensure transparency and good governance in the
work they undertake.
* Time frame and sustainability. Reports indicate that for many PAPs, the shock of displacement and
loss of land has been serious. The project is responsible for resettlement, compensation and
rehabilitation, but there has been a lack of clarity regarding time frame and sustainability. With the
entitlements and compensation for losses suffered, it is easy for PAPs to develop a "victim mentality"
and make excessive claims, or to expect continued charity and welfare. This is not the intention of a
-41 -



resettlement program. JMBA has expressed concern that there is a lack of clear standards about how
much and for how long they should be expected to be responsible for people's development. More
explicit attention needs to be given in the future to how the mitigation of negative impacts can be
combined with sustainable development, participatory planning and implementation on the part of the
beneficiaries, and how support to displaced people can be combined with local area development
efforts.
D. Conclusions
The Jamuna Bridge project has achieved a great deal related to resettlement, particularly in
establishing basic principles and approaches. Overall, the resettlement and compensation payments have
largely been completed, while efforts at rehabilitating those who have suffered loss of livelihood have
proven less successful. Since this affects the very poorest and most vulnerable, it is clear that more
attention needs to be given in the future to risk assessment, vulnerability, and livelihood opportunities for
the poorest.
It now seems clear that both IDA and the Government initially underestimated some of the
challenges in implementing the RRAP and EFAP, particularly in regard to institutional capacity,
commitment, and issues related to governance. As a result, the outcomes are uneven. There are clear
winners - including some among the PAPs as well as among local elites who have gained more than they
were entitled to. On the other hand there are also losers, particularly among the poorest, who have been
unable to access the various support mechanisms established. There have also been more indirect impacts
on local communities, such as reported sharp increases in traffic-related deaths and accidents.
The preliminary impact assessment for the resettlement program states,
"75% of PAPs are now staying as squatters in the khas land or in the land of relations as they
could not buy new lands with the CCL received against loss of agricultural lands and homestead lands.
Main occupations of the people of this area were handloom operation, agriculture and day labor. As their
lands have been acquired, 40%/o of these PAPs have been forced to become jobless."
As of project closing, the resettlement program has not been completed. Additional research is
required to document the impacts, and decisions need to be reached regarding how the poorer and more
vulnerable can be given additional support. IDA will continue to supervise the project until there is
agreement that the provisions in the RRAP and EFAP have been fulfilled.
-42 -



Annex 1. Financial Analysis
Tlhle I
Assumption from 1997 Toll Study
Cash-Flow: Net Revenue
Taka, million
Year    Total Costs   Total Revenue   Net Income       Return     Cost Cover
1998        536            987            452          45.8%         1.84
1999        385            1095           710          64.8%         2.84
2000        386            1217           831          68.3%         3.15
2001        467            1358           890          65.6%         2.90
2002        589            1516           927          61.2%         2.58
2003        689            1611           923          57.3%         2.34
2004        1006           1715           709          41.3%         1.70
2005        1194           1828           635          34.7%         1.53
2006        1207           1930           723          37.5%         1.60
2007        1282           2040           758          37.2%         1.59
2008        1145           2158          1013          46.9%         1.88
2009        1082           2285          1203          52.7%         2.11
2010        1077           2421          1344          55.5%         2.25
2011        1159           2541          1381          54.4%         2.19
2012        1284           2667          1383          51.8%         2.08
2013        1233           2801          1568          56.0%         2.27
2014        1308           2944          1636          55.6%         2.25
2015        1443           3095          1653          53.4%         2.15
2016        1500           3255          1755          53.9%         2.17
2017        1580           3424          1844          53.9%         2.17
2018        1475           3604          2129          59.1%         2.44
2019        1363           3795          2432          64.1%         2.78
2020        1358           3998          2640          66.0%         2.94
2021        1446           4213          2768          65.7%         2.91
2022        1580           4442          2862          64.4%         2.81
2023        1482           4684          3202          68.4%         3.16
2024        1240           4942          3702          74.9%         3.98
2025        1059           5216          4156          79.7%         4.92
2026        1079           5506          4427          80.4%         5.10
2027        1170           5815          4644          79.9%         4.97
2028        1061           6143          5082          82.7%         5.79
2029        944            6491          5547          85.5%         6.88
2030        942            6861          5918          86.3%         7.28
2031        1043           7254          6211          85.6%         6.96
2032        1194           7605          6412          84.3%         6.37
2033        992            7603          6611          86.9%         7.66
Total Costs:            O&M + debt service (principal plus interest)
Total Revenue:          Road Tolls + rail charge + power charges
Net Income:             Total Revenue minus Total Costs
Return:                 Net Income Over Total Revenue
Cost Cover:             Total Revenue over Total Costs
Assumptions:            Foreign exchange rate risk borne by GOB
- 43 -



Base Case Scenario                                              Tahle 11
Cash-Flow: Net Revenue
Taka, million
Year    Total Costs  Total Revenue   Net Income     Return     Cost Cover
1998       535.5          539           3.7          0.7%         1.01
1999       389.8          632          242.0        38.3%         1.62
2000       395.3          768          372.7        48.5%         1.94
2001       481.7          836          354.4        42.4%         1.74
2002       607.9          906          297.9        32.9%         1.49
2003       731.6         1069          337.8        31.6%         1.46
2004       1103.1         1153          50.3         4.4%         1.05
2005       1333.8         1244         -90.3        -7.3%         0.93
2006       1368.0         1314         -54.2        -4.1%         0.96
2007       1463.9         1390         -73.5        -5.3%         0.95
2008       1348.4         1611         262.4         16.3%        1.19
2009       1306.1         1707         400.6        23.5%         1.31
2010       1323.3         1807         484.0        26.8%         1.37
2011       1427.2         1914         487.1        25.4%         1.34
2012       1574.0        2029          454.9        22.4%         1.29
2013       1558.5        2356          797.7        33.9%         1.51
2014       1701.8         2498         796.0        31.9%         1.47
2015       1913.7        2647          733.3        27.7%         1.38
2016       2020.2        2807          786.9        28.0%         1.39
2017      2131.8         2977          845.1        28.4%         1.40
2018       2058.8         3464         1404.7       40.6%         1.68
2019       1979.3        3674          1694.2       46.1%         1.86
2020       2006.5         3897         1890.1       48.5%         1.94
2021       2127.4        4133          2006.0       48.5%         1.94
2022       2294.9        4384          2089.2       47.7%         1.91
2023       2231.2         5109         2877.4       56.3%         2.29
2024       1893.9        5420          3526.6       65.1%         2.86
2025       1606.9        5749          4142.4       72.1%         3.58
2026       1650.9        6046          4395.3       72.7%         3.66
2027       1767.0        6356          4589.1       72.2%         3.60
2028       1682.7        7346          5662.9       77.1%         4.37
2029       1591.3        7720          6128.6       79.4%         4.85
2030       1615.8        8118          6502.0       80.1%         5.02
2031       1742.3        8476          6733.8       79.4%         4.86
2032       1920.0        8974          7053.7       78.6%         4.67
2033       1645.7        9436          7789.8       82.6%         5.73
Total Costs:           O&M + debt service (principal plus interest)
Total Revenue:         Road Tolls +Other revenue streams
Net Income:            Total Revenue minus Total Costs
Return:                Net Income Over Total Revenue
Cost Cover:            Total Revenue over Total Costs
Assumptions:           Taka depreciates by about 2% a year against US$;
Toll Revenues are increased by about 10% every 5 years; and
Non-toll rates are as per negotiated rates.
-44 -



Low Case Scenario                                               Table 11
Cash-Flow: Net Revenue
Taka, million
Year    Total Costs  Total Revenue   Net Income     Return     Cost Cover
1998       535.5          539           3.7          0.7%         1.01
1999       389.8          617          226.7         36.8%        1.58
2000       395.3          741          345.4         46.6%         1.87
2001       481.7          795          313.7         39.4%         1.65
2002       607.9          851          242.7         28.5%         1.40
2003       731.6          908           176.7        19.5%         1.24
2004       1103.1         967          -136.0       -14.1%         0.88
2005       1333.8         1030         -303.8       -29.5%        0.77
2006       1368.0         1078         -290.3       -26.9%        0.79
2007       1463.9         1130         -334.2       -29.6%         0.77
2008       1348.4         1184         -164.1       -13.9%        0.88
2009       1306.1         1242         -63.8         -5.1%        0.95
2010       1323.3         1303         -20.6         -1.6%         0.98
2011       1427.2         1366         -61.2         -4.5%         0.96
2012       1574.0         1433         -140.5        -9.8%         0.91
2013       1558.5         1504         -55.0         -3.7%        0.96
2014       1701.8         1578         -123.9        -7.9%        0.93
2015       1913.7         1656         -258.0       -15.6%        0.87
2016       2020.2         1738         -282.2       -16.2%         0.86
2017       2131.8         1824         -307.4       -16.9%         0.86
2018       2058.8         1915         -143.9        -7.5%         0.93
2019       1979.3         2010          31.0         1.5%          1.02
2020       2006.5         2111          104.3        4.9%          1.05
2021       2127.4         2216          89.1         4.0%          1.04
2022       2294.9         2328          32.6         1.4%          1.01
2023       2231.2         2445         213.3         8.7%          1.10
2024       1893.9         2567         673.5         26.2%         1.36
2025       1606.9         2696         1089.0        40.4%         1.68
2026       1650.9         2702         1051.0        38.9%         1.64
2027       1767.0         2707          939.7        34.7%         1.53
2028       1682.7         2712         1029.3        38.0%         1.61
2029       1591.3         2717         1125.2        41.4%         1.71
2030       1615.8         2722         1105.9        40.6%         1.68
2031       1742.3         2726         984.0         36.1%         1.56
2032       1920.0         2731         811.3         29.7%         1.42
2033       1645.7         2736         1090.5        39.9%         1.66
Total Costs:           O&M + debt service (principal plus interest)
Total Revenue:         Road Tolls +Other revenue streams
Net Income:            Total Revenue minus Total Costs
Return:                Net Income Over Total Revenue
Cost Cover:            Total Revenue over Total Costs
Assumptions:           Taka depreciates by about 2% per year against US$
Traffic growth figures are as per SAR figures; and
Non-toll revenues are as per negoitated rates.
-45 -



Annex 12. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower Implementing Agency:
Borrower Comments on Implementation Completion Report
I) In the top of the Abbreviation page correction should be as BDTk. I = US$ 0.0196
2) In the first page, the title of the project should be "Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project'.
3) In page No. I Para. 3. 1. 1, the last line should be written as 'facilitating stimulate economic
growth by transport of road and rail passengers, freight and transmission of gas & electrical Power".
4) In the page No.2 Para-3.1.2(c), "and a hard point' should be added at the end of last line.
5) In the page No.4, Para -4.2.3, the second line should be written as below - was caused by the late
award of the river training works contract due to delay in finalization of loan agreement which
prevented the selected......
6) In the page No.5 Para -4.2.4 In addition to the causes mentioned, the following causes should be
added: (f) Pile wall thickness (g) Karimon rock issue.
7) In page 6, para 4.3.2 this clause should be revised to take account of the successful conclusion of
claims negotiation with three of the four contractors.
8) In the page No.7 Para 4.3.3, it is mentioned "This is because the high toll strategy has resulted in
slightly lower than projected truck traffic levels using the bridge", this statement is not true.
The reason behind the lower than projected truck traffic levels is due to presently under construction
of the access road, not because of high toll.
9) In the page No.7, para-4.5.2 the last two lines should be changed as follows: JMBA has not yet
developed appropriate skills to independently manage the Construction and operation of a large bridge
in Bangladesh.
10) In the page No. 8, Para-5.3, the fifth line should start in the following way, 'The decision to establish
social and environmental units within ...
11) in the page No. 8, Para-5.4. 1, the total cost needs to be revised after finalization of settlement of all
claims of the contracts.
12) In the page No. 10, para-6.2.2 "Several options are currently being bridge management contact, may be
omitted.
13) In page No. 10 para 7.1.1. in the fifth line it is mentioned 'The active Project identification/preparation
phase lasted from 1989 to 1993. The causes of delay in project preparation phase while the
consultants submitted the final feasibility report in 1989 should be mentioned in this para. Because for
the delay in taking decision by IDA, the original approved cost of the project proforma (PP) increased
from US$700.00 Million to US$ 860.00 Million at the time of commencing the project. The cost of
delay in holding decision by the donors, particularly IDA was extremely high.
14) In the page No. I 1 para-7.1.3, the last line should be written as below "An action plan-EFAP-to
mitigate the impacts of the Jamuna bridge on the project affected people had to be developed and
retrofitted during project implementation.
15) In page 12, para 7.6.1, the first line mentions "JMBA played a key role in both project preparation and
implementation by ... and implement the project," According to the above statement the implementing
agency's performance should be highly satisfactory. JMBA is a small organization, and it played very
important and significant role in project preparation. JMBA put all out efforts to convince GOB and
the donors for implementing the project.
16) In the page No. 13, para-7.6.3, we do not agree with the statement that "... JMBA has not shown the
necessary initiative and imagination to resolve [the claims] in a mutually satisfactory manner." We
consider that the World Bank is misinformed about the manner in which the Government of
Bangladesh and the Authority have undertaken the task of claims resolution. Happily, the settlement
with the Contractor for Contract-l has shown clearly that the bank is incorrect. It is well known to all
those involved in the process that the position vis-a-vis. Contract 2 - the only contract the claims of
which remain unresolved-is the result of the Contractor's intransigence and seeming inability to
undertake negotiation with the necessary flexible attitude.
- 46 -



17) In the page No. 14, para-8.9, the report omits mention of the site facilities for the Construction
Supervision Consultant, the Management Consultancy and Authority. The housing and offices were
completed many months late by the Contractor for Contract 2. This presented very significant
difficulties in supervision of the project, which should not be allowed to recur. Possible solutions
include:
* inclusion in the Contract Documents of liquidated damages for late completion of these facilities; and
* Provision of these facilities by means of a preliminary contract, timed to ensure that the facilities
would be complete at the start of the principal site work.
18. In the page No. 15 para-8.15, in the third line it is mentioned "the probable reason is that ... the civil
works have been completed". This is not true. This line should be omitted. Because some
responsibilities lies on contractors who did not submit claims in time.
19. In the first para of the page 25, causes of low truck volume crossing the bridge have been mentioned.
The cause No. ii states "The various incentives provided to truck drivers in Aricha-Nagarbari Ferry
seemed to have attracted some truck traffic to remain with the ferry." It is not mentioned what types of
incentives are provided to the truck drivers to remain with the ferry. The cause of low traffic volume
mentioned in (iv) of the same para is the main reason and the para should be restated accordingly.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Japanese Bank for International Cooperation's Comments (formerly Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan):
Comments on ILI
*   The list of abbreviations be made more exhaustive incorporating abbreviations like QAG at para 2.
*   The full import of some of the abbreviations like BRAC, JBIC and UJNDP be corrected. [BRAC stands for
Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, JBIC stands for Japan Bank for International Cooperation, UNDP
stands for United Nations Development Programme].
*   Various dates mentioned in the draft (for example, the end of contract of river Training Works, contract & 4
figures at pages 18 and 19 of annex -1) may be re-checked to see that they reflect the correct dates.
*   In the Project Data (first page), please mention "JBIC" or "JBIC (formerly OECF)" against the entry "Other
Partners.
*   At para 3.3, the abbreviations put under 'sector' be specified and the cost mentioned in the next column be
denominated.
*   WB may consider deleting the last sentence of page 3.
*   Para. 4.2.5: As it came out at a later stage, the acquisition of 3,000 hectares of land appeared to be more than
necessary. A more prudent acquisition plan could have been adopted. This could also minimize the social and
enviromental impacts.
*   Para. 5.4.1: It is not mentioned if the total cost including the WB non-SAR funded cost includes cost for
RRAP/EFAP and EMAP, gas pipeline, or railway track. If so, these items may also be included in the
parenthesis.
*   An important thing that could be learnt is that the executing agency should have good knowledge of the
operation procedures of the development partners.
*   The ownership of the project was manifested due mainly to the spontaneous participation of the public in the
raising of the counterpart fund. The involvement of the stakeholders therefore is critical to the successful
implementation of the project. The other reason for the successful implementation of the project was the
preparedness of the Government/executing agency before the effectiveness of loans, the preparedness took
inordinately long time though. This prolonged preparedness could possibly be shortened for future projects if
the lessons learnt from this project can be effectively integrated
- 47 -



Asian Development Bank's Comments
Comments on the Draft Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report prepared for the Jamuna
Bridge Project
Para. 3.5   Quality at entry may be qualified more.
Para. 4.1.1  The statement with respect to high toll strategy may be qualified.
Para. 4.2.2  The Jamuna Bridge with its dual gauge rail configuration will also fulfill
its role as a critical rail link on the Trans Asian Railway.
Para. 4.5.  Degree of capacity building and training provided under the Project (on
the-job training and/or other training)? Did the-consultants not have any
institutional impact at all? I thought some impact would have been made
albeit low.
Para. 6.1.3  Some further elaboration and the actual toll levels adopted would be
helpful.
Para. 6.1.4  The rail, power interconnector and gas pipeline were not to become
operational until later (2002, 2010 and 2005). This needs more
elaboration.
Para. 6.1.5. The new dual gauge railway line from Joydevpur to the east end of the
bridge is expected to be completed during 2001 and opened for revenue
service in 2002.
Para. 7.1.3  Was the project preparation costs high compared with similar types of
projects in similar environments?
Para. 7.6.2 With respect to engagement of management consultants, which perhaps
was the only sensible option for this type of project(?), this para. could be
phrased somewhat more positively.
Para. 8.14  Could a different approach and process have been adopted to resolve the
claims? What options were available or could have been considered?
Para. 8.18  What areas of capacity building was lacking or could have been
strengthened to maximize impact?
Other: Some more background to the Project would be useful.
- 48 -



GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH
JAMUNA MULTIPURPOSE BRIDGE AUTHORITY
JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT






-i-
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. INTRODUCTION ........................................................                                             ........I
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................................................                                                          1
3. SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT ........................................... .                                                       I
3.1      Completion to  Specification ................................................................1
3.1.1   Main Bridge Contract - Main piling design.                                                                                 I
3.1.2  Main Bridge - Cracks in Concrete                                                    .2
3.1.3  Main Bridge - Gas Pipeline Collapse                                                   .2
3.1.4  River Training Works - Falling Apron Rock.                                                                                 2
3.1.5  River Training Works - Guide Bund Failures.                                                                                2
3.1.6  Approach Roads - Drainage Channels.                                                                                        2
3.1.7 Settlement of Underpass                                                      .3
3.2    Completion to Time ................................................................                                                 3
3.2.1        Reasons for Program   Delay  ................................................................3
3.3    Completion to  Budget ................................................................3
3.4  Effectiveness of Implementation Arrangements ............................... .                                                        5
3.4.1        Implementing Agency ................................................................5
3.4.2        Consultants ................................................................5
3.4.3        Co-Financiers ................................................................5
3.5    Protection  of the Environment ..............................                         .................................5
3.6   Fair and Just Treatment of Project Affected Persons    ............................... .                                             6
4. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ARRANGEMENTS                                                                     . .                               6
4.1     Institutional Arrangements for Operation  and Maintenance ...............                                 ...................      6
4.2    Road Traffic Toll Levels ....................                           ............................................7
4.3    Tariffs for Rail and Public Utility  Services ............................................................7
4.4    Traffic Forecasts and Toll Revenues ................................................................8
4.5    Toll Collection  Arrangements ..............................8.................................8
5. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION OF ROLE OF JMBA ........                                                                             8
5.1    Institutional Development ................................................................8
5.1.1        Legal and Administrative Framework .....................................................8
5.1.2        Staffing and Management Arrangements .................................................                                8
5.1.3        Training and Transfer of Skills from  Consultants/Contractors .........                               .......         8
5.2  Establishment as a Permanent Organization with Expanded Role ................... .                                                    9
6. SUMMARY OF LESSONS LEARNED FROM IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT 9






Intensive Learning Implementation Report
Borrower's Contribution
1.    Introduction
This paper provides an evaluation by the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority of the extent to which the
objectives of the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project have been achieved. The principal issues that have
arisen during implementation of the project and the lessons that have been learned from. The evaluation
forms part of the intensive learning implementation process that is being undertaken as a requirement of the
World Bank. Although at this time the construction works have been completed there are a number of
outstanding issues relating to contract claims settlement and the Resettlement and Environment programs
will continue until June 2001.
2.    Project Objectives
The overall objective of the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project is to stimulate economic growth by
providing land transport of passenger and freight traffic, and transmission of electricity, natural gas and
telecommunications facilities between the North-West quadrant and Eastern half of the country in a cost
effective manner.
While the final success of the project will be demonstrated by the socio-economic development if
facilitates, for the practical purposes of this evaluation JMBA has focussed on the practical objectives
relating to the project implementation. Such objectives were defined by JMBA as part of a Strategic
Planning process at the commencement of the project implementation and can be identified as relating to
the following areas:
-    Successful completion of the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project
-    Establishing safe and efficient arrangements for operation and maintenance of the Project
-    Developing the institutional capability of the JMBA and establishing it as a permanent organization
with an expanded role
Each of these areas is considered in more detail in the following paragraphs.
3.    Successful Implementation of the Project.
This has been evaluated on the basis of:
1.    Completion of the project to specification
2.    Completion of the project on time
3.    Completion of the project to budget
4.    Effectiveness of implementation arrangements
5.    Adequacy of protection of the environment
6.    Treatment of Persons directly and indirectly affected by the project
3.1. Completion to Specification
This is best approached by examination of the principal exceptions arising during implementation, which
are noted as follows:
3. 1. 1. Main Bridge Contract - Main piling design
The Contract specification required the main piles to be "compact" (resistant to failure under earthquake
loading). The Contractor's tendered design failed to meet this requirement of the specification. The
necessary compactness was achieved by replacing the originally specified sand filling to the piles with
concrete. The Contractor has, however, raised a claim for the additional cost of concrete filling to the piles.



2
JMBA rejected the claim in principle and it is now under discussion as part of the ongoing process to
achieve a negotiated settlement with the Contractor.
3.1.2 Main Bridge -Cracks in Concrete
The Contract specification limited the allowable maximum crack width in structural concrete to 0.25mm.
In the event, a few cracks in excess of this limit developed in certain elements of the bridge. Exhaustive
investigations revealed a combination of causes (design detailing, thermal effects and construction
techniques). None of the cracks threatened the integrity of the bridge and all were rectified by means of
injection grouting and local reinforcement to safeguard the durability of the bridge.
There was, however a considerable amount of publicity and potential public concern surrounding this issue.
This was dealt with effectively by concerted action by JMBA, the consultants and members of the Panel of
Experts. An open meeting was held in Dhaka to inform the public of the nature of the reported cracks and
the action taken and to give reassurance that the integrity of the structure was completely safeguarded.
3.1.3 Main Bridge - Gas Pipeline Collapse
Installation of the gas pipeline was undertaken as a variation order on the contract, fully funded by
Petrobangla. During hydro-testing of the pipeline in early June 1998 a failure of the pipe fittings occurred
which caused the entire pipeline to collapse. Investigations indicated design failure as the cause. The
pipeline has been replaced with re-designed fittings at the Contractor's expenses but has generated a
number of problems in terms of claims for additional expense and damages.
JMBA has claimed damages for the additional supervision and design checking costs involved in the
reinstallation and for the cost of the CONAT reimbursement made to the contractor for the second
importation of materials. The Contractor has registered a counterclaim for additional expenses associated
with the reinstallation, which are claimed to be improvements to the original design.
These matters are now under consideration as part of the claims negotiation process for Contract 1.
3.1.4 River Training Works Falling Apron Rock
The Contract Specification required rock, which was to be placed in the falling apron to the guide bunds, to
meet a number of criteria. One of the sources of rock, "Karimun rock from Indonesia marginally failed one
of these criteria, the AIV (Aggregate Impact Value) test. This was not considered to be serious, but
nevertheless the size of the rock was increased as a precaution. There were no financial implications arising
from this issue.
3.1.5 River Training Works - Guide Bund Failures
The Contract Specification required the East and West Guide Bunds to be constructed to defined slopes. In
the event it proved impossible to build the guide bunds to these slopes under the conditions prevailing and
significant parts of the West Guide Bund failed during the course of construction. This, the most serious
problem encountered on the entire project, was overcome by re-designing the guide bunds to flatten the
slopes.
These events have resulted in significant claims being made by the Contractor, which have been rejected by
JMBA. The issue of application, extent and adequacy of insurance cover on the contract has been the
subject of protracted discussion and correspondence as part of the claims negotiation process for
Contract 2.
3.1.6. Approach Roads - Drainage Channels
Part of the drainage channels around the East Bridge End Facilities have collapsed. The reasons for this are
currently under investigation and the solution will depend on the outcome of this investigation.



3
3.1.7. Settlement of Underpass
An additional road over rail bridge, in lieu of a level crossing, and associated adjacent underpass was
constructed as part of the West Approach Road. It was not possible to carry out local site investigations
prior to design and still meet the construction program so the design was based on the assumption that local
ground conditions were similar to elsewhere on the contract. The box culvert underpass settled and cracked
after construction. Post- failure investigations revealed a local pocket of soft material. The box culvert was
satisfactorily repaired by injection grouting and retrofitting a formed joint.
3.2 Completion to Time
The task of implementing the project on time was made particularly demanding by the complex nature of
the project comprising not only construction of the bridge itself but also the river training works, approach
roads and flood embankments and by the extensive Resettlement and Environment programs involved.
Works had to be programmed to take account of the monsoon season.
With the exception of the gas pipeline the project was substantially completed on 20 June 1998 only 6
months later than the original planned completion date. The gas pipeline, which was the subject of a
Variation Order on Contract I (Main Bridge and Approach Viaducts), collapsed in June 1998. This has
been replaced by a new pipeline with re-designed fittings and was certified complete.
Start and finish dates for the contracts compared with the original and revised dates for completion are
shown in Table 1.
Component         Contract Start     Original Contract   Revised Contract   Actual End
End               End
Bridge and        IS Oct 1994        13 Dec 1997       20 Jun 1998        20 Jun 1998 (ex
Approach Viaducts _                                                       gas pipe)
River Training    15 Oct 1994        2 Apr 1997        13 Dec 1997        16 Oct 1997
Works                                                 __
East Approach     15 Oct 1994        1 Feb 1997        31 Mar 1998        31 Mar 1998
West Approach     15 Oct 1994        1 Feb 1997        1 Dec 1997         1 Dec 1997
3.2.1 Reasons for Program Delay
The award of the contract for River Training Works was delayed by negotiations between JMBA and the
Contractor on the contract price. As a result this delay the contractor was unable to mobilize prior to the
1994 flood season, the sequence of construction of the guide bunds had to be revised and the associated
completion date for the river training works extended by 255 days to 13 December1997.
The re-sequencing of the River Training Works had a knock on effect in delaying the Main Bridge and
Approach Road contracts. These contracts were also delayed by the period of political non-cooperation in
March 1996. The Main Bridge was further affected by requirements for installation of the gas pipeline and
broad gauge rail by the planned opening date.
3.3 Completion to Budget
The budgeted cost of the project is contained in the government's Project Proforma. This was revised in
April 1994 and it is this revised proforma that has been used as the benchmark for financial performance of
the project during the construction period.



4
An accurate measurement of the final cost of the project can only be made when the final costs of the
construction contracts are known. At the time of preparation of this report (June 1999) final measurement
of works, settlement of contractual claims and other differences in valuation have yet to be made. These
are currently the subjects of negotiation with the contractors. Independentjoint-facilitators have been
appointed to assist in the resolution of claims on the Bridge and River Training Works contracts and an
Inter-Ministerial Claims Committee has been formed to represent the government's interests in this process.
The facilitation process is going ahead on both contracts. Substantial progress has been made with the
Bridge contract, the River Training Works negotiations are awaiting resolution of an issue relating to
claims against the Contractor's all risk insurance.
In addition to the forecast costs of contracts including the Construction Supervision Consultant's estimate
of the final cost of claims etc., JMBA has requested government to provide a contingency of Tk 1,600
million (approx. USS 40 million) to cover the risk of final claim settlements exceeding the Construction
Supervision Consultant's estimate.
Estimated outturn against the project budget has been assessed both including and excluding utilization of
this contingency. Consideration has also been given to the effect of including and excluding the
Resettlement budget/outrun from the calculation. The Resettlement Program in fact is contained in a
separate Project Proforma that has recently been revised to show a significant saving against the original
budget.
The result of this comparison is a range of cost increase, depending on assumptions, of between
approximately I % and 8% over the budget. This is considered to be a satisfactory outcome having regard
to the size and nature of the project. Details of the forecast cost against budget are contained in Annex B
and the results of the comparison summarized in the following table.
Including Resettlement          Excluding Resettlement
CSC Forecast     Contingency    CSC Forecast    Contingency
Expended         Tk M          Expended
Tk M            TK M                    _       Tk M
Budget               36,036.94         36,034.94       34,404.94      34,404.94
Outturn              36,337.21         37,937.21       35,587.21       37,187.21
Increase                302.27          1,902.27        1,182.27       2,782.27
Increase %           0.84%             5.28%           3.44%           8.09%
Loans approximating to USS 200 million each were provided by the three Co-Financiers (IDA, ADB and
OECP) with the balance of funding provided through the government's Annual Development Program
(ADP). At the time of reporting, approximately 97% of the loans have been utilized. Use of the balance of
approximately US$ 20 million equivalent is dependent on the timing of settlement of outstanding contract
claims, and any extension of loan or loan grace period granted by the Co-Financiers. The Economic
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance has made an application for such an extension.
During the course of the construction period, the percentages disbursed by the Co-Financiers against
certified sums due on the construction contracts were reviewed on two occasions:
1.    During the Project Mid-Term Review in March 1997, the Co-Financiers instigated a reduction in the
disbursement percentage, having regard to the forecast final cost of the contracts and the desirability of
retaining a loan disbursement element through to the end of the project. It may be noted that the sum used
for final cost in the Co-Financiers' calculations included the estimated cost of contract claims thereby
implying a commitment to funding through to settlement of these claims.
2.    In February 1998, having regard to the revised final estimated costs of the contracts and progress
with loan disbursements, the government requested an upward revision of the loan disbursement
percentages such that loan disbursements would be 100% of certified contract payments. This was agreed
by the Co-Financiers.



5
The percentage contributions applying during the course of the project are shown in the following table:
.Construction Contracts                Technical Assistance
IDA          ADB          OECF         IDA          ADB          OECF
To March 97  30.70%       30.10%       30.70%       33.33%        33.33%       33.33%
April 97 to   26.21%      26.21 %      22.00%       33.33%        33.33%       33.33%
F eb   98                 ___________                            ___________   ___________
From March  35.75%        36.50%       27.75%       33.33%        33.33%       33.33%
9 8                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __I_    _ _ _ _ _ _
If the reduction in disbursement percentage had not been applied in April 1997, it is likely that the full
balance of the co-financier loans would have been utilized by 30 June, 1999.
3.4 Effectiveness of Implementation Arrangements
3.4. 1 Implementing Agency
The Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority was formed by government Ordinance in 1985 as the
implementing agency for the project. Since it had no other responsibilities JMBA formed an important
focus for the complex implementation arrangements which included coordination of contractors and
consultants and management of programs for Resettlement and Environment and dealing with the Co-
Financier and Government funding departments. Designation of a separate Jamuna Bridge Division within
the Ministry of Communication, with the Secretary having a dual role as Executive Director of JMBA
contributed significantly to decisions being taken quickly on project matters.
A drawback with using such an agency funded from the govemment development budget was that many
senior staff were appointed on deputation from other ministries and departments. As a consequence there
was a relatively high turnover of staff and the lack of permanence impacted on the ability to secure transfer
of technology from the consultants.
3.4.2 Consultants
A consortium of intemational and local consultants supervised the construction works. In addition, JMBA
was directly assisted by the appointment of Management Consultants, providing technical and financial
advice to the authority and by a Panel of Experts, senior local and international experts who were called
upon to provide advice on technical issues as required.
In view of the size and complexity of the project, and relative inexperience of JMBA, being a new authority
the advice and assistance of the Management Consultants and the Panel of Experts were of particular
benefit in strengthening JMBA and enabling it to undertake the role of implementing agency more
effectively.
3.4.3 Cofinanciers
The relationship and communication between JMBA and the Co-Financiers was generally very good.
Training in procedures for key finance staff enabled the process of preparation of withdrawal and
disbursement documentation for procurement to proceed smoothly. Differences in practices relating to
control and monitoring of loans adopted by different co-financiers caused minor delay in some payments.
3.5 Protection of the Environrment
Mitigation of the environmental impact of the project was provided for in the Environmental Management
Action Plan (EMAP) prepared by the JM8A Environmental Unit and BUET in 1995. This comprised the
following components much of the work on which was/is being undertaken through contracts with NGOs:



6
*    Development of guidelines for construction related impacts
*    Promotion of changes in cropping patterns
*    Boat navigation survey
*    Fish culture development
*    Wildlife survey and monitoring
*    Plantation and social afforestation
*    Water level and quality monitoring
*    Environmental planning of bridge ends and resettlement sites
*    Environmental health education campaign
The opening of the' Dhaleswari spill channel reduced the required inputs on changes in cropping patterns
and boat navigation to monitoring and evaluation only. Water levels and quality were monitored and found
satisfactory, effectively completing this component. The Bureau of Health Education successfully
completed the Environmental Health Education campaign. The programs relating to fisheries and
plantation are on going. Progress on fish culture was delayed by the flood conditions and the work being
undertaken by NGOs has been augmented by inputs directly from JMBA. Plantation and distribution of
saplings among PAPs has been satisfactory and is continuing.
3.6 Fair and Just Treatment of Project Affected Persons
Resettlement and compensation of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) is being undertaken through the
Revised Resettlement Action Plan (RRAP) in line with World Bank Operational Directive No OD4.30 and
the Erosion and Flood Action Plan (EFAP) which is a sub-project of RRAP. The overall number of persons
affected by the project is approximately 100,000.
RRAP includes the development of resettlement sites, the provision of a range of cash grants to compensate
for loss of land and facilitate purchase of replacement land and occupational training and micro-credit
programs. EFAP provides payments to compensate persons losing land or crops' as a result of erosion or
flood deemed to be resulting from the project works.
A Resettlement Unit was set up within JMBA's structure to implement RRAP and has been assisted by a
field-implementing agency. ROM. The Employment and Income Generation program, covering 3,000
project affected persons over 3 years is being implemented through two NGO's PKSF and DORP. Another
implementing agency, BRAC, has been engaged to administer the EFAP program.
Good progress has been made with physical resettlement. Development of resettlement sites in Sirajganj
and Shuapur has been completed and a further site in Bhuapur is in progress.
Disbursement of compensation has generally been slower than anticipated due to problems with
verification of claimants and claim details.
The Resettlement program continues until the end of the year 2000 and efforts are being made to speed up
the process of payment of entitlements.
4. Operation and Maintenance Arrangements
4.1 Institutional Arrangements for Operation and Maintenance
Having regard to the nature of the work required and the current level of experience within JMBA, it was
decided to let an international contract for operation and maintenance of the works for the first five years.
Following tenders and evaluation, a contractor was appointed and commenced responsibilities under a five-
year contract with effect from 23 June 1998 when the bridge was opened to traffic.  In addition to
carrying out regular inspection and maintenance of works in accordance with the contract provisions, the
contractor also collects all road tolls on behalf of JMBA and deposits them to JMBA's account on a
monthly basis.



7
The first year of operation of this contract has resulted in a number of claims from the contractor for works
considered to be outside the scope of the contract. JMBA is examining these claims. There has also been
some delay to the procurement of essential equipment as a result of disagreement between JMBA and the
contractor on the contractual provisions relating to the financing of these items.
4.2 Road Traffic Toll Levels
The parameters set for determination of the road tolls were that they should:
1. Be set at a level, which would recover the full cost of operation of the bridge including servicing debt
2. Be comparable with existing ferry service charges
The current schedule of tolls was agreed by govemment after recommendations made in a study carried out
by JMBA's management consultants and documented in the Tolls Study Report September 1997. The
approved tolls are shown below:
Vehicle Class                     Toll (Taka)
Motorcycle                                                    30
Car and Light Vehicle                                        400
Small Bus (29 seats or less)                                 550
Large Bus (more than 29 seats)                               800
Light Goods Vehicle (less than 5 tonnes)                     750
Medium Goods Vehicle (S to 8 tonnes)                        1000
Heavy Goods Vehicle (more than 8 tonnes)                    1250
On the basis of forecast road traffic, and proposed charges for rail and utility services using the bridge (see
below), the Toll Study report demonstrated that the revenue from use of the bridge would be sufficient to
cover full costs of operation and maintenance.
4.3 Tariffs for Rail and Public Utility Services
The Tolls Study Report included proposals for annual charges to be made in respect of provision for Rail,
Gas and Electricity crossings via the bridge. The proposed annual charge for Rail was Tk 148 million and
for Gas and electricity, Tk 150 million each. In negotiations with the appropriate authorities there has been
considerable resistance to the proposed charges. Agreement has been reached with Bangladesh Rail for a
payment of Tk 5 million per annum until the rail link from Dhaka to the Northwest is completed and
thereafter an annual payment of Tk 75 million per annum will become effective. In the case of Electricity
payment of Tk 0.5 million per annum will be made until the electricity connection is fully energized. A
charge for telecommunications cabling on the bridge (not part of the Tolls Study Report proposals) of Tk 3
million has been agreed. No agreement has yet been reached for charges far the gas pipeline. The position
can be summarized as follows:
Service       Toll Study Proposal       Current Position
Rail
Gas           Tk 150 m per annum        No agreement
Electricity   Tk 150 m per annum        Tk 0.5 m per annum until fully energized then re- negotiate
Telecomm      Not considered            Tk 3 m per annum
Sums to be realized from tariffs are, therefore, significantly less than those envisaged in the Tolls Study
Report. To mitigate against the reduced income from these sources compared with Tolls Study projections
JMBA has applied to government for continued ADP funding of Operation and Maintenance expenditure



8
(with the exception of loan interest and reserve fund payments) for the first three years of O&M.
Comparison of the forecast revenue and expenditure for the first 5 years of operation (assuming this
additional funding is agreed) with the original Toll Study forecast is given in Annex 8.
The revenue surplus shown in this forecast will be used to create a reserve fund in lieu of insurance, for
emergency repairs to the bridge. The provision of govemrnent AOP funds for the first 3 years effectively
mitigates against the reduced tariff income during this period. After three years, toll revenue, together with
the revenue from tariffs is forecast to be sufficient to cover operating costs.
4.4 Traffic Forecasts and Toll Revenues.
A detailed comparison of the first year's traffic and toll figures compared with the Tolls Study Forecasts is
given in Annex C. Total traffic numbers and revenue are higher than forecast but the distribution of traffic
by category is significantly different to that forecast by the Toll Study. When sufficient time has elapsed to
allow traffic trends to settle down a further detailed traffic study will be necessary for planning and
forecasting purposes.
4.5 Toll Collection Arrangements
The system of automated barriers and computerized toll recording installed as part of the contracts for the
approach roads (which include all the bridge end facilities) proved to be unsuitable for practical use. As a
result the Operation and Maintenance contractor introduced a manual receipting and control system which
is currently in operation pending consideration of proposals for installation of an effective fully
computerized tolling system. Under the current manual system tickets are issued to each vehicle (a
separate ticket type for each toll class) and a manual control record maintained of the numbers of each type
of ticket issued for each shift n each lane. The total numbers of tickets issued can be compared with the
barrier count (an automatic indicator of the number of times the barrier has operated in each toll lane).
Proposals have been made by the contractor for installation of a computerized system, which includes
automatic vehicle recognition and tolling features to provide a safeguard that the correct toll is applied to
each vehicle. Introduction of such a system, however, would entail a significant cost and may involve a
change in the toll classifications currently in use.
5. Institutional Development and Expansion of Role of JMBA
In addition to successful completion of the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project and establishing
arrangements for its continued operation and maintenance JMBA identified development of itself as an
organization as an important objective. This comprised establishing a continuing and enhanced role for
the authority in the future and the gaining of necessary capability to fulfil this role.
5.1 Institutional Development
5.1.1 Legal and Administrative Framework
JMBA Ordinances were duly formulated to provide the necessary authority to undertake it's role
5.1.2 Staffing and Management Arrangements
During the course of the project implementation period, many of the staff of JMBA were on deputation
from other government ministries and departments. Turnover of staff was high mitigating against retention
of skills and experience within JMBA.
5.1.3 Training and Transfer of Skills from Consultants/Contractors
These two issues are considered together as they are closely linked. A major part of JMBA's training
strategy was based on staff working alongside contractors and consultants to gain knowledge and



9
experience. This has only proved partially successful. A number of factors mitigated against effective
transfer of technology including lack of defined contractual arrangements, staff deputation and transfer,
lack of appropriate counterpart staff and pressure on the contractors and consultants to meet tight deadlines
for completion of works.
5.2 Establishment as a Permanent Organization with Expanded Role
The JMBA Ordinance 1998 provides the statutory basis for the expanded and continuing role of JMBA. It
establishes JMBA's responsibility for toll road developments and for all bridges in excess of 1500 meters
long. In addition, it provides for JMBA to create corporate entities, to transfer assets to these and
subsequently to sell shares in them.
6.    Summary of Lessons Learned from Implementation of the project
Lessons Learned:
The Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority a body corporate was created to undertake all necessary
feasibility, design & build the Jamuna Bridge. The Authority has overall responsibilities in all matters in
connection with the bridge.
For taking decisions on the important and complicated matters there is a board chaired by the Minister, in-
charge of the Ministry of Communications. Moreover, the decisions required in the Government level are
quickly resolved through The Jamuna Bridge Division. This Division had been established in June 1995
under the Ministry of Communications for providing speedy decisions to JMBA.
Moreover, during execution period of the project, Construction Supervision Consultant (CSC) consisting of
bridge engineers, river experts, road expert's etc. was appointed. In addition, Management Consultant
(MC) was appointed to assist JMBA in its duties during construction.
At the construction site the JMBA staff carried out functions as counterpart to the Construction Supervision
Consultants (CSC). The Management Consultants (MC) assisted the JMBA staff.
The function of the counterpart staff was to provide a close day link between the Employer (JMBA) and the
Engineers (Construction Supervision Consultants) in order to facilitate quick decisions by the Employer
where and when required. It also enabled of IMBA staff to gain an intimate knowledge of the construction.
This knowledge has become very helpful to JMBA in the subsequent operation and maintenance of the
Project.
The JMBA counterpart staff had the authority to inspect the work at any time and bring to the notice of the
Engineer (Construction Supervision Consultants) the observation of their inspection for improvement or
rectification as the case may be. The JMBA, however, at site also had responsibilities regarding public
relations and liaison between CSC and MC and between CSC, MC and Contractors on one side and local
GOB bodies on the other.
SNIBP was very complicated project for which the development partners appointed a internationally
reported consultant to supervise the construction work of JMBP.
For transfer of technology different construction contractors made arrangements to impart training to the
Assistant Engineer's of JMBA at the construction site during construction of the project. The Engineers
were given theoretical & practical training on different components of construction procedure, materials,
technique, etc. So the Engineers of the Authority had gained knowledge in the different field of
construction works (Main Bridge, River Training Works, Approach Roads etc.) of JMBP.
But it is also true that as Engineer CSC was mainly responsible for supervision of the construction work,
they were directly associated with the implementation of the project. As a result, the IMBA technical



10
personnel had limited opportunities to be directly involved in the construction works. Moreover, the senior
officials of the Authority including Project Director was Deputed from other government organizations
Most of the Officers were deputed for a short period which created some difficulties in implementation of
the project, and hampered transfer of technology to the local Engineers. For implementation of any large
project, JMBA should appoint more senior officers instead of deputation.
The objective of any big project is to achieve maximum economic benefits through the adoption of modern
technology which is less costly, time saving and economically justiifiable and technically feasible. In case
of JMBP, a new technology (offshore) for sub structure of the bridge had been applied for the first time in
Bangladesh. The engineers of SNIBA have gained experience fromi construction of the project.
For construction of East and West Guide Bund latest technique & instrument were used which is also new
in Bangladesh. It is expected that JMBA has benefited substantially through the transfer of this technology.
The feasibility study was commenced in 1986 and the consultant submitted the final report in February
1989. On receipt of the study, there was disagreement of the World Bank with the economic analysis of the
consultant. The Bank carried out econonmic analysis afresh with their experts. Being satisfied with the
project's ERR (14.8%) the Bank agreed to finance the project in 1993. But due to lapse of long time from
1989 to 1993, the project cost increased by 37.60%, (original cost vwas Th. 2500.00 cr. and 1st revised cost
was Tk.3440.00ct). Implementation of a project deserves examination of minimum effectiveness. The
original date of commencement and completion of the project was 1990 and 1994 respectively. But the
revised date of commencement and completion was October 1994 and June 1993 respectively. Pre-
appraisal, appraisal, loan negotiation of this project took a long time. GOB had to make lot of efforts to
convince the Development Partners by satisfying their queries. Froim the experience of JMBP, it can be
said, the project cycle from the stage of study to the implementation should be closely monitored by time
bound action plan. The period for pre-appraisal, appraisal, loan negotiation, should be shortened. In this
regard the government and the development partners should reach timely.
From the various stages vis-a-vis, feasibility study, pre-appraisal, appraisal, evaluation, loan negotiation,
selection of consultant and contractors, procurement, payment procedure etc., the JMBA staff have gained
significant experience. As a result of which the GOB has decided to implement 1.5 Km and above type of
Bridge, Toll Road, Fly-over, etc., under this Authority.



MAP SECTIUO'






SW               HP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
*                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
0Pcchdgor    '~~~                                     JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT
MAIN TRANSPORT NETWORK
PROPOSED PROJECT                 WAEWY OTSAND LAEAVIALEDPH LD
SW                                                                                         C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LASS  12 Ift. LAD
L-"  AMUNA RRIDGE                  CLASS II: 6FR. LAD
--  ROAD WORE
ROAD WORK (N. N ho Projec OF~ MJO  WR
SEA PORTS
ROADS
255,
S Cu So A so, hs,u,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B                                  S
050T5s.%>1H< 5  555>'S
sIT,~OuoC,p                ss~<,s~sssvs-                                   ->t55-s/>R5iS0ssfBs                                                             24,-,
ussisssuu5-.~Iu<uos            ,,s,,     ~                             C, -ik
k>ta~~~>~2t   5&        ~         ~         I ND I 
PALTA  ./ 5h                          5%,
C INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I N
I N D I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+   >~   C>-                                                                  5
P                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RFtAURRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



