Page  1
September 29, 1994
Mr. M. Lutfullahil Majid
Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Dear Mr. Majid:
Re:
Jamuna Bridge Project (Credit 2569-BD)
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Jamuna Bridge Project) 
between the People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) dated February 25, 1994.  We refer 
also to the letter f rom Mr. Md. Shah Jahan, Deputy Secretary Of the Ministry of 
Finance dated September 20, 1994 requesting the Association's permission to open 
the Special Account in Bangladesh Bank rather than in a commercial bank.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it 
has agreed with the above mentioned request.  Therefore Section 2.02 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement is hereby.amended to read as follows:
"(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain 
in US dollars a special deposit account in the Bangladesh Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Acdount, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule
3 to this, Agreement."
All the remaining terms and conditions of the Development Credit 
Agreement, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.  A copy of 
this letter is being sent to the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority (JMBA) for 
their records.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and 
dating the enclosed confirmation of this letter and by returning it to us for 
our records.
Sinerely yours,
David Groves
Acting Director
Country Depart 1, South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Madbub Kaihr
Authorized Representative
Date:  October 11, 1994
cc:
Mr. Muhammed Ali,
Executive Director
Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Page  2
