Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2569 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Jamuna Bridge Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 25, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2569 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1994, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Asian Development Bank (ADB) a loan 
(the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADB;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Economic Cooperation 
Fund of Japan (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to two hundred 
million dollars ($200,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and OECF; and
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority 
(JMBA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to JMBA the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and JMBA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and JMBA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"JMBA" means Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority, established pursuant 
to the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. LV OF 
1985);
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority (JMBA), of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Plan dated October 15, 1993, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the resettlement and rehabilitation of Project 
Affected People (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Project Affected People" means all the people who have been or will be 
directly or indirectly affected by the Project; 
(g)
"Resettlement Unit" means the Unit established within JMBA acceptable to 
the Association for purposes of providing assistance in implementing the Resettlement 
Action Plan;
(h)
"Environmental Action Plan" means the Plan dated December 1993, 
satisfactory to the Association setting forth measures to be taken to mitigate the 
adverse impact of the Project on the environment, including measures for fisheries 
development, wildlife protection and land use;
(i)
"Bridge-end Facilities Land Use Plan" means the Plan dated July 1992, 
satisfactory to the Association for land use at the Jamuna bridge-end facilties;
(j)
"Taka" means the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on July 1 
and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-three million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 143,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
Page  3
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2004 and ending December 15, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and  each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. JMBA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
Page  4
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause JMBA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of JMBA therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JMBA to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower's financial and other contribution towards the cost of 
the Project shall be passed on to JMBA as a grant. Such contribution shall be made at 
such intervals, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary or required to 
enable JMBA to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to JMBA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and JMBA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall 
include, inter alia, that:
(i)
the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of 
not less than three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, 
for a term of forty years, including a grace period not exceeding 
ten years;
(ii)
the Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk; and
 
(iii)
interest will be capitalized for payments to begin fully or 
partially at such time to be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, 
provided, however, that such capitalization shall not continue 
beyond ten years after the completion of construction of the 
Jamuna Bridge.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by JMBA 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1995, review with the Association programs 
for the training of JMBA staff in all aspects of bridge operation; and
(b)
thereafter take appropriate measures to implement the agreed training 
program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall utilize the recommendations and results of the 
Bangladesh Transport Sector Study in formulating its transport investment plan.
Section 3.06. For purposes of assisting JMBA in carrying out Part A of the 
Page  5
Project, the Borrower shall, no later than February 28, 1995, take appropriate action, 
including enactment of legislation, to control and monitor construction activities and 
other land uses in the vicinity of the Jamuna bridge that may interfere with its 
construction, operation, and maintenance, and to 
ensure the safety of persons employed in the Project or using the Project facilities.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall participate with JMBA and the Association in 
carrying out the mid-term review of the Project in accordance with Section 2.08 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by February 28, 1995 take all appropriate measures, including enactment 
of legislation, to: (i) give legal authority to JMBA to operate and maintain the 
Jamuna bridge after its completion; (ii) enable JMBA to levy and collect tolls, and 
operate as a financially viable organization; and (iii) give legal authority to JMBA 
to implement the Bridge-end Facilities Land Use Plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
allocate adequate funds to enable JMBA to operate and maintain the Jamuna 
bridge for a period of one year after its completion.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than start of civil works under Part A.3 of the Project, cause 
JMBA to open and maintain in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, a Bridge Emergency Fund of at least $10,000,000 
equivalent which shall be used by JMBA to finance expenditures of an emergency nature 
Page  6
during construction of the Jamuna bridge; and
(b)
in consultation with the Association, cause JMBA to replenish the Bridge 
Emergency Fund referred to in paragraph (a) above as and when required to meet the 
required expenditures.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
JMBA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that JMBA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Ordinance No. LV OF 1985, as amended to date, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of JMBA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JMBA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and JMBA;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB Loan Agreement 
and the OECF Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this  Agreement;
Page  7
(c)
the contract(s) for construction supervision and for Project management 
and monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Resettlement and 
Environmental Action Plans have been signed and become effective;
(d)
at least 50 percent of the Project Affected People to be displaced by 
April 1, 1994, determined in accordance with methodology satisfactory to the 
Association, shall have completed the purchase of replacement homestead land in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Resettlement Action Plan; and
(e)
all necessary governmental action required for implementing or causing to 
be implemented the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Action Plan have 
been taken.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by JMBA, 
and is legally binding upon JMBA in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and JMBA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and JMBA in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that JMBA is legally authorized to carry out the Project; and
 
(d)
that all necessary governmental action required for implementing or 
causing to be implemented the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Action 
Plan have been taken.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or 
Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division 
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Peoples Republic
   of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SETU/BJ
642226B3
Dhaka
Facsimile:
8802813088
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ K. M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              136,600,000        30.7%
(2) Consultant                 7,000,000        33.3%
    Services and
    Training
      TOTAL                  143,600,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 14,350,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 
30, 1993.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts (for works and 
services) not exceeding $50,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project is to connect the eastern and western part of the 
country through the construction, operation and maintenance of a bridge over the 
Jamuna River, thereby stimulating economic growth by facilitating cross-river 
transport of passengers, freight and transmission of power.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  9
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Civil Works
 
1.
Construction of a bridge, about 4.8 km long, 18.5 meters wide across the Jamuna 
River, with a foundation to carry a railway and capable of supporting an electric 
interconnector, a gas pipeline and telecommunications facilities.
2.
Construction of viaducts, about 128 meters each connecting the bridge to the 
approach roads.
3.
Construction of two guide bunds, of about 2.2 km each and a flood protection 
bund on the east bank to regulate the river at the bridge construction site.
4.
Construction of two approach roads.
 
Part B:
Resettlement and Environment
 
1.
Implementation and monitoring of resettlement and rehabilitation of about 77,000 
project affected people in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan, including 
establishment and operation of a management information system for monitoring and 
evaluating the implementation of such resettlement and rehabilitation.
2.
Implementation and monitoring of the Environmental Action Plan including 
implementation of mitigation measures for the effects of closure of the northern 
intake of the Dhaleshwari river.
Part C:
Technical Assistance and Training
 
Provision of technical assistance and training required for purposes of 
implementing Parts A and B hereof, including, inter alia, in the areas of project 
management, construction supervision, institution building, and training of JMBA staff 
in operations and maintenance.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  10
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  11
