Jamuna Char Integrated Development Project


  Date :August 18, 1996

  To
  The Inspection Panel
  1818 H St.
  N.W. Washington,D.C 20433
  U.S.A


  Dear Sir,


  MultipurposeBridge Project in Bangladesh. The Bridge Project is exerting and will continue
  It is for your information that World Bank is one of the co-financiers of the Jamuna
  to let loose detrimental effect on the lives and livelihood of the char people. The Jamuna
  Multi-purpose Bridge Authority( M A ) did not take into considerationVital issues associated
  withthe existenceofthe char people.Failingto achieveanypositivereaction either fromthe
  JMBA or the local resident mission of the world Bank, we, according to the system of the
  World Bank seek to register our Request for Inspection on the issues to the Panel of
  Inspectionof the World Bank.

  Accordinglywe are submittingherewith the necessary documentsas prescribed by the World
  Bank for your sincereconsideration.

  Please let us know if anyfurtherdetailisrequired inthisregard.
  Yours          ,




  Majibul Huq Dulu
  Director
  JCDP




  DHAKAOFFICE:                                PROJECTOFFICE:                      PROJECT OFFICE
  House #37 Road # 04                         Mia Pare                            CollegeRoad
  Dhanmond,Dhaka                              Jamalpur                            Ehuapur,Tangail
  Tel :880-2-865729,502391
  Fax :880-2-886368

Date :18thAugust, 1996. Dhaka, Bangladesh

TO :THE INSPECTION PANEL : 1818H. St
N.W.Washington, D.C 204 33, USA

We, Jamuna Char IntegratedDevelopment Project (JCDP) and other persons whose names
and address are attachedlive / represent others, living in the area known Jamuna char region
claimthe following :

1.     The Bank is Financing (and Playing the Role as CoordinatingBody for the
       Construction of JMB) I Appraisal of a Project [Name and Brief Discussion]

The Jamuna Multi-purpose Bridge is a much- talked- about project which has been endorsed

natiûnzlpxject of its kind for which people had to sacrifice their hard-earned money as levy
by the GOBas a priorityproject and co-financed by the World Bank. This is, perhaps, the first
and taxes. Since 1984government began to negotiatewith the internationaldonor community
for the construction of this bridge. A series of feasibility studies had been carried out by
differentinternationalagencies. Allthose studieswere aimed at drawing up a comprehensive
plan forthe bridge.

The first study was launched in 1986. Netherlands Engineering Consultants (NEDECO),
Rendel, Palmer and Triton Ltd. and Bangladesh Consultants Limited were jointly
commissioned to carry out the study on the feasibility of construction of a multi-purpose
bridge on the river Jamuna. Later on several other studies were carried out in order to
determine characteristics and configurationof the bridge. Specifically the phase-I study was
requestedby UNDP and World Bank. The main objectiveof the phase-I studywas to identi@
the suitable location for the bridge construction. M e r having analyzed, using multiple social
and physiographical criterion, a corridorjust below Sirajgonjwas finally selected as the most
appropriateplace for the construction of the bridge. In May 1987,with UNDP funding, the
same agencies were again contracted to carry out the phase-I1 study. The components of
Phase-I1studyinclude trafficprojections,cost benefit analysis,technicalaspects, geo-technical
issues,physical modeling and above all the economic feasibility of the proposedbridge. After
the completion of the phase-I1 study, a draft feasibilityreport consistingof a main report and
ten annexeswas issuedin April 1988.
Discussion on the draft feasibility report had begun in June 1988. Donors, GOBand experts
discussed the various issues of the feasibility report. Those meetings were attended among
othersbythe representativesofthe World Bank, UNDP, GOB,JMBA (now named as JMBD),
ADB, OECF of Japan, ODA, Canadian High Commission and other international agencies.
The meeting came up with the conclusion to instruct the consultants to proceed with the
preparation of the biding documents on the basis of an integrated road-rail bridge.
Subsequently, World Bank confirmed to the consultants through a fax, dated July 7, 1988
enclosing a copyof Aide Memorie dated June 27, 1988.

In these meetings and afterwards the donors and the consultants stressed on the need of
Additional Economic Feasibility Study (AEFS). In 1989, the consultants submitted the draft
report containing the earlier work reported in April 1988 and AEFS. In February 1988 the
decision was made to carry out other related studies like the Enviromental Impact
Assessment.


                                               1

Availablerecordsindicatethat a preliminaryfeasibilitystudywas conductedin 1971on a k e d
crossing over the river Jamuna. Possiblythat was the first initiativeundertakenin respect of a
proposed bridge over the river Jamuna. Later, in 1976,another studywas conductedby Japan
InternationalCooperationAgency. In the following years the east-west inter-connecting grid
was constructed for transfer of electricity. Subsequently a feasibility study was conducted in
1992on gas supplysystem acrossthe river to the western part of the countryincluding option
for road and energy bridge. Ail these events added impetus to the proposition of a multi-
purpose bridge over Jamuna. Particularly, since 1984,the project stayed at the priority list of
the Government of Bangladesh. To operationalize the idea initially a body styled as Jamuna
Multi-purposeBridge Authority(JMBA)was formedwhichwas later elevatedto the status of
a division. JMBA commissioned a number of studies to look into the diverse aspects of the
project. On the basis of the recommendationsdrawn by those studies, the constructionwork
has started.



It has been decided that the proposed bridge will be located about 8 km downstream of the
existingferryghat near Bhuapur. The connectingpoint at the western zonewill be Saidabad, a
few km. downstreamfiom the Serajgonjferryghat. The energytransfer to the West would be
achievedby means of the second electricityinter- connectorand a gaspipebe over the bridge.
Thusthe proposed bridge constructioninvolvesa wide arrayofworks: the main bridge, bridge
end facilities,approachroads, river training & closure of the western intake of the Dhaleswari
river. (Rende1Palmer & Tritton, NEDECO and BCL, Jamuna Bridge Pro-iect.Phase 11, Study
FeasibilityReport, VolumeVIII. 1984).
The Jamunabridge Multi-purposeBridgeproject includesthe constructionof

O       the main bridge
        the Bridge end facilitiesat the east and west banks of the Jamuna river
        the approachroads connectingthe bridgewiththe existingroad network
e       the river training works

The main bridge is expected to be a multi-span girder-typestructurewith 100m spans and a
total length of 4.800 m. The main bridge will have pile foundation consisting of 90 m long
steel tubular piles driven into riverbed by piling hammers on floating crane barges. The
superstructureof the bridge is proposedto consist of steelbox girderswith a concretedeck or
pre-stressed concretebox girders.

The bridge endfaciiities of both sides of the bridge wiU be located on reclaimed land within
the existingJamuna floodplain andwill ccntain fiîdities for proper operation and maintenance
of the bridge. These end facilities are expected to enhance smooth trafic flow , provide
travelers aids, have bus stations, parhg areas, rest areas, toll booths, staff housings etc. The
total length of the two bridge end facilitieswill be about 6000m.



                                                 2

Theapproach roads willhave a total length of approximately22 km. Inthe East, the approach
road will be connected to the existing Tangail-Madhupur road near Elenga and in the West, it
willjoin the Hatikamrul-Sirajgonjroad at new Nalka bridge.

The project site is in central Bangladesh about 300 kmup river from the Bay of Bengal. On
site delivery of the constructionmaterials, machinery and heavy bridge components by road or
rail will be expensive. Thus, the suitable mode of transportation of these equipment and
materials directlyto the site is through river channel of sufficient width and depth for safe and
timely passage of the deliverybarges. At the project sitewhere the bridge will cross the chars
a channel has to be dredged to provide access of floating cranes required for pile driving and
installationof completebridge units.

River training works (RTW) will be necessary in order to prevent outflanking of the channels
and to construct the bridge end facilities as explained by the Bridge Authority. The RTW will
be constructed on the flood plains or on char land. The crest of the RTW will be raised above
the design flood level while the toe at the river side will be extended down to the maximum
expected scour depth. The currents and wave action exert enormous erosive force on the
slopes. In order to prevent erosion of the slopes and protect the river banks concrete block
mattresses will be constructed or rocks will be dumped. The total area needing protection is
close to one million square meters. In order to facilitate the RTW extensive dredging works
will be needed.

The existing ground level has to be raised approximatelyby 5 m. in order to construct flood
free approach roads and bridge end facilities, The dredged materials that become available
when constructingthe river training works willbe used for this purpose and will be discharged

The total quantity of materials dredged will far exceed the total quantity required for
directlyby the dredger into the area of the future bridge end facilitiesby hydraulic fíllmethod.

constructioninside the floodplains. Whether the excess dredged sand will be dischargedto the
siteof the approachroads outside the flood plains directlyor be stockpiled near the bridge end
facilities and delivered in dry condition has not yet been decided. Borrow filling by the excess
dredged material alongsidethe road has also been considered as an alternative.

Prior to the above major construction activities a flood f?ee area will be reclaimed with
dredged materials on the east bund bordering the future bridge end facilities. Majority of the
constructionactivitieswillbe carried out alongwith the construction of the labor camps in this
area.

These major construction works will have construction related environmentalimpacts. These
impacts will be of temporary nature and are expected to cease with completion of the
constructionwork of the bridge. However, some of lïc impacts may be quite siimuficant and
can be very serious if not properly managed during project planning and implementation and
can cause severe damageto environmentalresources.




                                                 3

At different phases of feasibility studythe donor and the panel of experts have suggested the
followingrecommendationsregardingthe components of bridge :

       The incrementalcost analysis showed that the most beneficialconfiguration would be
       two lane road bridge initiallybut the expansionto four lanes would be justified in the
       mediumterm.

       Considerable cost savings would be obtained by carrying gas or electricity transfers
       across the bridge as compared with independent river crossings. Provision should,
       therefore, be made for such transfers on the bridge althoughit was likelythat gas and
       electricitywould be naturallyexclusiveinthe initial years.
       The meter gauge (MG) rail option was found to be the most attractive of the rail
       alternatives.
       Establishment of gas and electricpower interconnects.
       River training.

0      Bridgeendroad construction(Approachroad).

2.      We understand that the Bank has the following policies and / or procedures

OperationalDirective4.30: InvoluntaryResettlementhas elucidatedthe guidingprinciples.

Involuntary Resettlement, OD 430 in the new Operational Manual. The previous guidelines
were contained in OMS 233, socialIssues Associated withInvoluntary Resettlement in Bank-
Financed Projects, and OPN 10.08, Operations Issues in the Treatment of Involuntary
Resettlement in Bank Financed Project. Both may now be discarded. More detailed
information is in Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical

Bank Assisted Projects,An Introduction toLegal Issues (Washington,D.C: The World Bank,
Paper No. 80 (Washington, D.C: The World Bank, 1988),and inInvoluntary Resettlement in
1988).

The directivebroadensthe treatment of resettlement issuesbeyond hydropower and irrigation
projects to alltypes of investmentoperations.It emphasizesthe need for :
a.      minimizinginvoluntaryresettlement {para.3(a)};
b.     providingpeople displacedby a project withthe means to improve, or at least
       restore,their former living standards,earningcapacity, andproduction levels
        {para.3(b)};
c.      involvingboth rgsgttlgm andhostsinresettlement activities {(paras.3c)-(d) and
        7-10)];
d.      8@p-bound resettleqepl plan (paras. 4-5 and 3Q);ad
e.      vaiqation and comQqpGtt,joyprinciples for land and other assetsqected by the
       praiy.( @ara. 14-1é&

3.      Our Rights I Znterests

That it is submittedthat the constitutionof Bangladeshguaranteesthe right of property for its
citizen provided in Article 42.(1) that "Subject to any restrictions imposed by law, every
citizen shallhave the right to acquire, hold, transfer or otherwise dispose of property and no
property shall be compulsorily acquired, nationalized and requisitioned save by authority of
law. Clause2 of the same article describesthat "Alaw made under clause (1) shaiiprovide for
the acquisition,nationalizationor requisitionwith compensationand shalleither furthe amount
of compensation or specify the principles on which, and the manner in which, the
compensationis to be assessed and paid, but no such law shall be called in question in any
court on the ground that anyprovision in respect of suchcompensationisnot adequate.

The rise in the water level in Jamuna river will displace thousands of people fì-om their
forefathers'land. This is the direct violation of the fundamentalright of the people ,especially
when there isno schemeto compensatefor the loss of land and consequent eviction.

In accordancewith the envisaged principles as laid down in the constitution and as translated
this right into other laws and as such violation the legal and fundamentalrights of the char
people demand immediate attention, who are faced with the detrimental effect of bridge
construction, are they eligible to receive compensation and have the right to resort to court.
The people whose lands have been submerged due to the construction have not been
incorporated in the mitigation plan. Even the people of the acquired land have not received
proper compensation yet, in many cases. That is further submittedthat the Article 15 of the
constitutiondescribesthe basicrights of the people.

Any act or effect impairing or jeopardizing the basic rights of the people is likelyto be taken
care of immediately. The people have the right to survive and to earn their livelihood in a
congenial atmosphere. The inundation of the agricultural land and homestead, intensified
scouring in the char, the increased water level in the river Jamuna as result of the closure of
the northern intake of the Dhaleswariand above all, the changes in the river morphology will
substantially be detrimental to the char dwellers and consequently these people would be
plunged into a situationofbeing evicted fiomtheir ancestors'land.

This clearlyindicates as to how the right of the char dwellersis being ignored. Furthermore,it
is notable that the Land Reforms Ordinance, 1987 section-6 describes that No eviction, etc.
fì-om homestead, "Any land used as a homestead by its owner ia the rural area shaii be
exempted from all legal process, including seizure, distress, attachment or sale by any officer,
court or any other authorityand the owner of such land shallnot be divested or dispossessed
of the land or evictedtherefromby anymeans: provided that nothing in this sectionshallapply
to the acquisitionof suchhomestead under anylaw".



                                                 5

"Evictedtherefrom by any means :provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the
acquisition of such homestead under any law" is meant for any actions or the after-effectof
the actions, attributingto or tendsto attribute, appear to be counterproductiveor seemsto be
counterproductive to the survival of the people as well as force people to leave their
homestead. This is one of the fundamentalrights of the people which has been strengthened
and legitimized through law. This interest is fraught with various factors stemming from the
activities, being carried out by Jamuna Multi-purposeBridge Division. The responsibilitiesof
different parties involved in this project are well-defined in the contract documents and
outheld in the project appraisal reports. We are observing with deep concern that the
parameters and perspectives used in ascertaining the number of population to be affected is
based on the shallow understanding of the gravity of the problem. The hydrological table and
predictions made in this connection portray a dismal situation for the people inhabiting the
char lands. The land records annexed herewith are ample evidences of the people's lawful
entitlement of those land. This could be referred as one of those vital projects lacking the
participation of the people, in any form. However, we request inspection panel to come
forward to investigatethe matters .The quantificationmechanismhas sheerlydenied the losses
and damages incurred to the char people. Now the main concern of the people is to secure
their right to live ontheir homestead.

The principlesdescribed in the state acquisition Act also definesthe limit of the citizensright,
so far the eviction is concerned. The State acquisition And Tenancy Act, 1950 (as modified
up to date), section 83 spells out "A raiyat shall have the right to occupy and use the land
comprjsedin his holding in any manner he likes". In the event of Infringementof this right by
the act of anyindividualor authorityfor anyactions which are not immuned by any other law
of the land, the aggrieved persons are entitled to get relief under the Law called "Specific
Relief Act. The ordinance promulgated for the implementation of Werent development
project oftendon't cover allthe aggrievedpersons.

The JamunaMulti-purposeBridgeAuthorityOrdinance 1985(OrdinanceNo d v . of 1985)
section7 describes "Functionsof the Authority : subject to general direction, supervisionand
contro'lof the government, the functionsof the authorityshallbe to -

Prepare a comprehensive plan for the establishment of the multi-purpose bridge for
consid(erationand approval of thegovernment.

The destruction of the char shows clearly that the bridge authority has not devised a
comprehensiveplanfor the construction of the bridge.

Section9(1) : Acquisitionof land -(i)Any land required by the Authority for carryingout the
purpos,eof this Ordinance shall be deemed to be needed for a public purpose and such land
maybe requisitioned or acquired accordingto the requirements of the Authority.


Section 10 (2) :(a) Cause studies, surveys, experimentsand technical researchesto be made
or contributetowards the cost of any such studies experiments or technical researches made
by any otherperson at the request of the Authority.

(e) Seek and obtain advice and assistancefor anypurpose relating to the Multi-purpose bridge
f?om any local authority of Government agency and such local authority or government
agency shall give advice and assistance sought by the Authority to the best of its ability,
knowledge and judgment and the expenditure, if any, involved in such advice or assistance
shallbe borne by the authority.

Section ll(2) :The Authority shall pay compensation to such persons as may be affected by
the prohibitionunder subsection (1) in suchmanner and at suchrate maybe prescribed.

Section 12(2) :The Authority shall pay compensation if the damage, if any, caused to the
land on account of any actionunder subsection (1) at suchrate and in suchmanner as maybe
prescribed.

In the light of the above mentioned sectionswe can draw the followingconclusion :The land
acquisitionis not the problem for the vast majority of the char people. People expressed their
worry about erosion and distractionof char. The compensationpackage developed by JMBA
onlyincludesthe peoplewhose landwill be acquired for the constructionof the bridge. It does
not dealwith the charpeople asthere landshave not been acquired.

The environmentalimpact assessment (EIA) of Jamuna Bridge has not followed the sequence
and synchronizationof the events necessary for EIA. It was mostly based on the secondary
data. We only find the existence of the charlandwhile the questionsrelating to wildlife action
plan and fisheriesmitigationplan come up. One of the basic perimeters of EIA is to ensure the
participation of the people. The project is lacking the participation of the people. So, the

mitigationplan devised on the basis of EIA.
existence and the interest of the charpeoplehave not been reflected inthe EIA and subsequent


4.      The Bank has Violated its Own Policies / Proceduresin this Way:

Any operation that involves land acquisition or screened as Category A or B project or
environmental assessment purposes should be reviewed for potentials resettlement
requirementsearly in theproject cycle. (OD. 430)

The steps undertaken by the bank to ascertain the resettlement potentials only dealt with the
people whose land have been acquired but did not consider the thousands of people who
would be evicted fiom their land as consequence of the construction of the bridge system and
willbe turned into environmentalrefugee.

Therefore, we claim to undertake a through investigation into the matter and urge upon the

project cycle did not include the char people in its resettlement plan. [Revised Resettlement
inspectionpanel to look comprehensivelyin to the resettlement issues. The Bank,at the early
Action Plan JMBA, ResettlementUnit]

The Bank h a clearly violated its own Involuntay Resettlement Directives. The directive has
clearly outlined the right of the project affected people. "Where displacement is unavoidable,
resettlement plan should be developed" (OO. 430). Involuntary resettlement without
compensationand mitigationplan is discouragedby the bank. But the bank has not taken into
accountthe potentialthreat of the displacement of the char people.
                                                7

In the introduction of Operational Directive on the Involuntary Resettlement the Bank
describes "development projects that displace people involuntarily generally give rise to
severe economic, social and environmental problems : production systems are dismantled,
productive assets and income sourcesare lost, people are located to environmentswhere their
productive skill may be less applicable and the completion for resources greater; community

traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished. Involuntary
structures and social networks are weaken, kin groups are dispersed and cultural identity,

resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship".

In the policy objectives of Involuntary Resettlement Directives, Bank has described that the
Bank's resettlement policy is to ensure that the population displaced by a project receives
benefits fiom it involuntary.

Theconstructionof the bridge has been a constant threat to the human habitation.Following
mmples will shed light on the people's vision and the perspective concerning the bridge's
effectson the habitation.Duringparticipatoy discussionthepeople of Boropeari had taken a
critical look to the bridge. People are aware that the bridge, when completed, would cause
problemsfor them infuture Thefiustandforemost isthefact that the char would not &at
all Theyknow it very well that they would confront all somof trouble in lve They would lose
their homes, theirlands, right tofishing, and beforced to relocateto a drerentplace Thatis
whythey need to be compensatedadequately. Themattershould be broughtto the notice of the
appropriateauthoritiesuigently.

InDorota duringdiscussionmorethanoneparticipantsaidthat the charwould not exist asa result
ofbuiídingthebridge, andthat therewas no waythey continuedlivingthere. Theywould lose their
cattle, plants and, above ali, the very opportunity to cultivate. ûther people such as fishermen,
boatmen etc. would find themselveshelpless,because already,theyhave lost the right to fishnear

takento compensatefortheir lossoflivelihood.
the bridge siteasper instructionsissuedbythe Jamuna BridgeAuthority. But no measurehas been


During discussionon the impact of the bridge the people of Boro koira said that closure of two
tributariesinthe Saidabadareawouldcauseariseinwaterlevei,whichwould meantheir
housesandlandswould go underwater.

Turning to the impact of the Jaimina Bridge Project, the people of Gobindapur said that once
completed, it could seriously affect them. They said that a reduced width of the river, fiom 7-8
d e sdownto 3-4 miles,would causegreater overflowof thewater duringmonsoon.Theypointed
out that water would flow down the channelsof Louhajang, Dhaleswari, Saidabad and Katakhali
during floods, but now, with the narrowing or closing of these channels, water would overflow
tremendously. "Another reason is", as one of the participants put it, "there will be dams (guide
bunds)onboth sidesofthe Jamuna,and those ofus livingin chars and f&g         outsidethe dam area
wiiljust go underwater.Peopleinourvast areawiillosethe opportunityto cultivate and raisetheir
cattle".

In Chandgonj the participants said that the guide bunds being built on both sides of the Jamuna
would do most of the damage for the char people. The water level would increase by 3-4 feet,
which would cause an ovdow because of a much narrower river channel that would be the
Jamunawiththebridgeinplaceaccompaniedbythebunds.
Buzzed with the happy feehg that the resettlement planning have got on, the JMBA, quite
interestmgly,initsEnvironmentalManagementActionPlan providesforthe followingoniy :
        JMBA and DoF have estimated about 5,650 fisherfolkwould be directly affected by the
        JMBP of which about 25 % numbering approximately 1400 would be a full-time
        professionalfisherfolk.
        Fromthe socialbenefit standpointponds availableshouldbe adequateto compensateabout'
        3200PAPS intheimpact area.
        The closure of northern intake of Dhaleswari river will exert a si@cant impact on the
        upper Dhaleswaribasin having an area of about 7.00 Wsq.a total of about 250 families
        areexpectedto be affectedbythe closureofthenorthernintakeof Dhaleswari
e       An estimateshowsthat thehomesteads of 2166householdswillbe acquiredbyJMBA
        forJMBP.
        An estimated2166willlosstheirhomesteadwithtrees.
        Another estimated ten thousand household who have lost their agricultural land or
        otherwiseaffectedwillbe providedwith sixsaplingswithm u r e andfertiliza.

While askedhow they came to know about the existenceof Jamunabridge an overwhelming74%
oftherespondents(1150)saidthere had beenno official attempt to informthem aboutthe plans
undertakenbythe authorityhavingdirectimpactontheirlivesandlivelihood.Theycameacrossthe
issues oníy through hear-say. This is how one can easilyassess the reluctance of the authorityto
take into considerationthe "people" and the society as well. Consequently"a resettlement site,
about three Km north of east bridge end is being developed to accommodate20% of the 2166

bridge site alone has a population of 76,000persons distributedover 13,000households. Not to
households displaced from their homestead".While the seventy five chars withinten Km. of the
mention,the Jarminariver sheltersmorethanhalf amillionpeople initsislandcharsonly.



Integralto the resettlement actionplan the restorationof the displaced production is one of the
fundamental agenda for the improvement of the socio-economic condition of the people. How
world bank look at the social issues is mirrored in its Resettlement and Development Report
(1994).It desmis"whenpeople aredisplaced productionsystemaredismantled`'.

The studyhas focusedon the possibilityof the destructionof the productionsystem.The existing
charswillbe washed away. Already sixteen charsunderwent severeerosion. The people are living
in a bewildering sitwition. ïhe agriculturaltend is being devoured by the struck of inundation.
Cheena(a smallvarietyofpaddygrains),wheat, groundnuts areprincipalcropsinthe char areas.
Thepeople of Bom Peari saidifthe char did not exist,they would lose everything,allsources of
earning a living -- agriculture or fishing. They said that health care and education would be a
naggingproblemforthem.

InDorotawheat, sügarme,cheem, sweetpotato are maincropsthat the sandylandp&s               them
to dtivate.

                                                9

Rulipara and the western Jungipur the land gives substantialagriculturalproduction. Rice, jute,
In Chandgonj much of their land inpart had gone under water inrecent times. The easternpart,
wheat, brinjal,potato, chilietc aremainthe cropsofthisarea.
The char Alipur is rich in agriculture,with plenty of trees. There are roads, schools, madrasahs,

riverhas made it look like a char.Agriculturalproductionhas also been disruptedin this area due
shops,market places and mosques. This char is infact a part of the mainland, but the Dhaleswari
to unusualincreaseinwater.
Panchasona is a permanent char in the heart of the Jamuna, which only gets submerged during
floods but does not erode. But now, with the dredging of a new channel as a component of the
bridgeproject,thevast charwith anarea of 50 squaremileshasbeendividedintotwo.

Kinship Croiipand Destnictioii of inforinat Socid Network

Resettlement and DevelopmentReport (1994)produced by WorldBank states that the kinship
groups are scattered and informal social networks that arepart of daily subsistence systems    -
providing mutual he@ in child care,food security, revenue tmnsfer, short-term credit, labor
mchange and otherbasicsourcesof socio-economicsupport are dissolved

Destruction of the social support systemwould inevitablybring disasterin the lives of the people.
Agriculture, household based craR activities are being run on the basis of the kinshq relation.
Consideringthe notion of dependencyof the people, through which their survivalmechanism get
impetus, we can easilydraw conclusionthat the destruction of Whq group and informal social
networkswould resultin deteriorationofhealth, revenuetransfer,disastermanagement etc. This is
Unique forthe char areasthat the people cannot withstandthe stresseventscausedby erosionand

relationshipwould entaildisasteruponthepeople. Thecommunityhealth support systemwould be
flood without being dependent on the kinship and socialrelations. Disarticulation of this kind of

wiped out. In the rural setting of Bangladesh, mid-Wives-hailed &om the char areas provide
enormous support to the women. One of the most devastating effect of the destruction of the
Whiprelationswouldbe theskisgeneratingout ofheterogeneouscompositionof thepeoplein a
new area. Thepeople, in the charregionshad to shift their homestead severaltimes ina year. The
identityof the people lieswiththe previousvillages.Decisionconcerningmigration are dependent
onthekinshipnetworkprimany. How WorldBankwillquantethe valueof the destructionofthe
society.Exchange of iabor is one of the major aspects amongMerent kinship groups which help
them overcomethe lean period, disasteretc. During October-November (Ashwin-Kartic)the char
people facefood shortage.Amongthe manypossiblealternatives,dependenceontheneighborsand
thekins isdeemedasapart ofimmediatesurvival.
The slum &e houses in the resettlement areas had not been accepted by the people. JMBA,
especiallyinitsEMAP"Aresettlementsite,about 3km. northof eastbridgeend shownin isbeing
developedto accommodate20% of the 2166 households displaced iì-omtheir homestead. ... the
plan showsthat the resettlement site will be developed m urban densityin a rural setting. In the

environmentalqualityinfaior to that theyenjoyedin theirprevioushonìestead'.
absence of adequate environmental consideration it vdl turn into an urban slum having an

Theabsenceofthe environmentalconsiderations havenever been eradicated andit is not onlythe
"environmentalquality "that is infèriorbut the whole qualityof life is degraded in the resettlement
plan. The degradation of life is no more a theoretical proposition, it is quite evident and
comprehensible.

"JAMCWABRIDGEAUTHOìUlTESIN A FCY: Aflected People UnwiEngto Move to Rehabìlìtatìon
Site NazmulAshmf of theDailyStar repovts backfrom Bhuapu?'.


affectedpersons(PAPs)to liveattheresettlementsite.ThePAPSaccustomedwithiifestylein char
        Jamuna Multi-purposebridgeisbeing hindered dueto unwiliingnessof most of the project

areas of rural Bangladesh are ñnding it unsuitable to reside in the JMBA-arranged urban-style
residentialareaswhere smail plots have been offered to the PAPs. Amirunessa, a house-wife of

insecure and isolated since they now did not have any neighbors unlike where they lived earlier.
one of the three families residing at rehabilitationsite, told this correspondent they were feeling

This correspondenttalked to a cross-sectionof people includingthose affectedand gatheredthat
the inhabitantsof the char areas were disliking the idea of living at the resettlement site because
theythought theywould losslife styletheywere accustomedto sincelong. Besides, theywere not
sure about the type of social bondage to be built up in a society where people from Werent
localitiesandoccupationsandvaryingbackgroundswouldbe livingtogether".

During our investigationit was foundthat 45 per cent of peoplehad clearlyexpressedtheirworry
concerning the social disintegration as an inevitable outcome of the after-effects of bridge
construction.

Deterioration iii Food Security arid ~             ~of the Agrictiltnml System
                                                                ~          t          ~           ~   t

It hasbeen explainedbythe Bankthat "People'slivesare affectedinverypainfiilways.Many jobs
and assets are lost." due to invohtary resettlement As consequence of the bridge construction
there is no doubt that the vast tract of paddy, kaon, ground nut and water melon fields will be
submergedandthelandswillbe submergedunderwater. Inmanyreportsit has been describedthat
the char areas are the source ofwater melon, ground-nut and other agriculturalproducts .Though
the spiral of the grueiing poverty impair the lives, but at least once every year, good days smile
upon them once for a while when they harvest The attached data sheet will provide a clear
picture of agriculture in the charareas.

The people ,speaking on the impact of Jamma bridge apprehendthat the acute food crisis will
crate dismay among them. The chrs are fertile and the fmers cultivate various kinds of
vegetables and grains. The sense of loss of the people has been multiplied as the many chars get
submerged by the surging waters of the river. During investigation attemptshave been made to

migration from ancestors'land to other placeswillhave considerableimpacts on the potentials of
ascertain the level and extent of the destruction of the food security system. It is true that the
developingthe food securitysystem.Moreover, the croppingpattern, particularlypracticed in the
char areas, is Mment fromthat of the mainlandpeople. Duiig discussionpeople emphasized on
the protectionof the food secu~ysystem. They said if we were d~~placdwe would loss the land
to cultivate- leading to the destruction of our food sectty system. It kj an earnest need to pay
attectionto this factor.
                                                  11

5.     We Believe our FüghtslLn?erestsHave Been / are Likely to be Adversely Affected
       as a Direct Result of the Bank's Violation. This is, or Likely to Cause us to
       suffer.
Before delving into the matters relating to sufferings and miseries of the char people, we
would like to focus on the following : "Apart fromthe RIVMOR computationcarried out to
predict constrictionsscour and back water effects near Jamuna Bridge ( Phase-I, finalreport,
appendix C-S.3 ), some additional situationswere computed. For one schemitizationof main
channel and flood plain, two different bridge lengths were taken. The result relating to scour
and back water depthwere comparedin Appendix -B-5.3 In analyzingthe appendixmentioned
in the above it is clear that the existing char lands will be seriously affected by the strong
currentsdueto constructionaleffects of the bridge system".
In appendix B-5.4 ( phase -1, final report ) the resistance to flow of the Jamuna river during
flood conditionis discussed.this is important as far as the backwater effect is concerned. The
sediment transport rate determines the scale of morphologicalprocess and thereby important
for constrictionscour.

In order to assess the effect of bridge length on the constriction scour and back water,
compu.tationwas carried out for two bridge lengths with the same schemitization of main
channeland floodplain (char).

Considering the boundary conditions with the upstream and downstream respectively a
maximum rise of water level of 3 meter and normal depth, we can conclude that the rising
tendencyof water will affect seriouslythe char lands. In case of numericalinstabilitythe four
cases were studied to predict the worst condition scour,that may occur in one of the stages.
The dischargeincreases Com40,000 m3/s,which is about bankful, to 91,000m3/swhich isthe
1:1O0 year discharge in 14.5days. This correspondsapproximatelywith the rise of water level
of 3m in 1O days. This was the maximumlevel ofwater observedinthe hydrographs.From the
present condition it is concluded that a river constriction which includes a reduction in the
main channelleadsto considerablemore constrictionscour.Back water effectswhichwillalso
affect (onthe char people not only by reducing the char width out by eroding the chars. Here
the integral part of each pier of the bridge will be dominating on the reduction of the river
width.

In contrast to the predictionsof the feasibility studythe recent facts and press informationthe
erosion and scouring have developed leading to a heavy economic losses evident from the
current year's scouring and erosion phenomenon. This phenomena allows us to consider the
prediction of the feasibility studies in this connection as over enthusiastic. The following
example shed light into the alarmingdevelopmentsin thebridge site:
"The under construction west guide embankment of the Jamuna Multi-purpose Bridge has
suffered another collapse. In April 11, during the dredging operation 70 meters of the
embalikment at the south end collapsed within 3 hours and disappeared into the river. The
Bridge authoritywill suffer major financialloss due to this second "slopefailure"in a span of
three monthstime. The leading expertsof the countryare of opinionthat the rive training of a
very active river like Jamuna Bridge has not been done in appropriate method and the whole
nationwillhave to bear the responsibilityof the irresponsibledecisionof the government.



                                                12

The news of collapse has already been communicated through fax to donor agencies, World
Bank. Asian Development Bank, local and central office of OECF of Japan. Besides, the
management consultant, panel of experts and London office of construction supervision
consultant have been informed about the incidence The Bridge authority has asked CSC to
bring the designer in Bangladesh. The CSC project directorate is also asked to visit
Bangladesh".

Back in 1994 Bhorer kagoj (Morning Paper) reported "that the Jamuna Bridge Project: Site
selected for guide embankment disappeared in river. The source informed that site for guide
embankment onboth bankswere selected.But 718 acres of land of site for guide embankment
on the east bank in the Tangail district disappeared into river and as a result 352 acres of new
land has been acquired again. However, additional land is required for the east bank guide
e~badment.So the previouslyselectedsitefor guide embankmenthas to be changed".

Following is the synopsis of the news itempublished in the ITT.EFAa the largest circulation
Bengali national daily. It describes the situation of the area, including the areas under our
study.

SIRAJGANJ;May 19,Hundreds of homesteads were washed away into the river as the surging
waves of the Jamuna invadedinto 11villages ofthe char. At least five otherchars areunder threat
f7om the heavy current and whirlwind in the river. People from about 400 homesteads were
homeless in the viliages of Chundw, Madhurabari, Boro Peari, Chhoto Peari, Hari Bhanga and
Dorotaunderthedistrictof Sirajgonj.
In Bhuapur subdistrictoftheTanga3district,onthe easternbank of the Jamuna,the charsnamely
Panchagaccb Haolbhanga, Baniagati, char Baintain and Belua lost halfof their lands. More than
400 familieswere ontheverge oflosingtheirhomes.

The latest spateof erosionwhich began four days ago, at least 30 villages-- both on the char and
themainland--underthree subdistrictsof SirajgonjperishedintotheJamuna.

Local people said digging of a new channel to divert the Jamuna current and construction of
embankmentsalong both banks of the river caused a rise in water level. The overflowingwater,
backed bythe strongcurrent,didthedestructionofthe charvillages.

The channel was created to facilitate the on-going work of the multi-purpose bridge across the
mightyriver.

About 2,750 people, including women and children, from the 11 char villages moved out to
Merent directionsfor shelter.Theydemandthat the autharkiesset up campsto renigethevictims.

These peûple, rendered homeless because of the bridge prgject, also demand compensationfrom
the govemment.

The Jamuna suddenly began swelling since Thursday last after heavy rains. Bangladesh -Water
DevelopmentBoard sources saidthe situationwas gettingworsebecauseofthe strong current and
whkhvinddespitea slightdecreaseinthewatel-levelonSundâjj.
                                               13

The ovdowing Jamuna water has devoured the alternate road approachingthe Bhuapur fary
point, suspendingSirajganjto Bhuapur f qsystem.

The above discussionillustratethat the bark has not taken into considerationthe right of the
char dwellers.The involuntary,resettlement para (2), (3) a,b,c.d.e(4) havebeen violated.

ïhe l,wel and Extent of the D:image

The human and social factors emanating ñ-omthe ongoing Jamuna Bridge construction have
capturedthe attentionof the organisationsand individualsworking onthe Jamuna charregion.

The Jamuna Char Integrated Development Project has closely been monitoring the multi-
dimensional effectsof the construction and recording the changes taking place in human and
sociallife.

In order to assess the impact of the construction of the bridge, we made an effort as part of
which a document depicting the scenario of the impending disaster in terms of human
sufferingsand forced-displacementof thousandsof peoplehas come out.

Humanhabitationin the char land is the history that resemblesthe bitter struggle of the early
settlers, of this alluvial flood plain. Being in the technically fragile zone, Bangladesh
experienced a large number of embankments and dams in the name of water management.
Chars,unique in land type and settlementhistory, distinct in mode of life and existence, are at
stake, speciallyin the Jamunaregion, owingto the changesto the river channelaswell as river
morphologycausedby the Jamuna MultipurposeBridgeProject.

The very process of the construction of the JMB, particularly the noise pollution deafen the
ear of iour children,deformthe yet-uoborn and rob the hard-earned sleep at the end of a long
back-breaking day.

We appealto the inspectionpanel,to standbeside usin support of our right to survive, sustain
our lonig-standingknowledge, and protect the socialcoherenceachieved through our perennial
struggle for livesand livelihood.

Damag,eto ecologicalbalance to such a degree because cf this kind of human actionsamounts
to a deliberate denial of our right to live or exist. Our existence is rooted in the process of
erosioriand accretion,appearanceaná disappearance of chars.We derive our subsistencefi-om
the land and water, the char and the river. Our agriculture, fishery, transportation, rituals,
socialharmonyhave an inseparablelink with the river.

                                               14

The Jainuna Bridge,as predicted and alreadyproved (to our dismay)is severely dismantling all
these.

Mitigatory plans, apparently weli-fashioned and envisaged in order to comply with official
order,Ihaveneithertakennoticeof theseissues, nor are aware of the fact that the chars arenot
a barren land but are full of cacophony of life, both human and non-human. We urge ail to be
aware of this fact.

This is of vitalimportance that we the people of char have experienced severalembankments,
existent or planned to protect the mainland people, and at the cost of our live and livelihood.

The JMBA in its various documents has technically elucidated various engineering and
morphological aspects. We, the char people, who have acquired the knowledge from
experiencethrough ages and apply those in every step of our life, clearly understand that we
and our naturearound us have becomeundue victims of the bridge project.

\Ve 7;C'onId Like to Cite the Followirig Examples in Orùer to Draw Attention of the
Inspectioii Paiiel to the Harm Suffered by the Peopte.

Boropeariand its adjacent chars and flood-prone areas had nothing to boast other than three
schools, five mosques and 7-8 small shopsas community entitlement. Surroundedby river on
ail sides, their landsare stillfertileand productscrops such as wheat, cheena, nuts, brinjal, and
coriander.Just two kilometersoffthe bridge site, a village cailed dash chars is separated from
Boropeariby a nearly dry river. The bridge project devouredmuch of their cultivable lands for
which they had not been compensated as yet. People of the area had registered claims several
months ago but were yet to receiveanyresponse fromthe authorities.

Dorotai Char is Roughly two and a half kilometers off the bridge site where work is
progressing fast, they live under the constantthreat of being devoured by the mighty Jamuna.
Last ywr, floods swept a substantialpart of their lands, fi-omthe western side of Boropeari to
Dogaclhi, into the river. The river threatens to do more dsimage to the area overlooking the
Serajganjghat and located only 15-20minutes away by countryboat from the district town.
One school,three mosques, 5-6 small shops and a dirt road stretchingfrom Berabarito Darota
are all that areworth mentioning as communityentitlement.The road, beating the flood waters
in heiglht, provided the shelterfortheir cattle.

The people of Alipur char mostly came from the Singuli char. Their own lands had been
devoured by the Jamuna.



                                                i5

The char is rich in agriculture, with plenty of trees. There are roads, schools, madrasahs,
shops, market places and mosques. This char is in fact a part of the mainland, but the
Dhaleswari river has made it look like a char. The inhabitants believe that damming up the
Dhaleswari as part of the bridge project has caused a big erosion in Belatia, in which about
100-150 homesteads went under water. Knowledgeable circles in the area say that damages
this year would be much greater. The villagers said that the Jamuna had made a dent of about
150 feet in the west duringlast year's floods. Theybelieve that flood water would have much
greater strengththis year and continueto cause damagesto the western side of the char. They
said that closure of the Saidabad channel had already started causing problems for them.
Villagen' plea to the higher authoritiesto find remediesto their problemshad goneunheeded.
There is no tributary as such in this area comprising 7-8 chars, but the closure of the
Dhaleswari channel led to erosion and destruction of 150-175 homesteads in Belatia during
last floods, creating a new stream flowing down to the river in the east. People fear further
damaglesthis year.

The bridgewould leavethe river narrower,with the 4.8-kilometer bridge being approached by
a road comingwell into the river, thus obstructingthe flow. The currentwould have its speed
strengthenedby 3-4 times and the chars on the southern side of the bridge would just perish
under the water. The char in the east would also confront the current and might face the
similar fate. Already, these chars are burdened with extra population from chars at the mid
point which got dissolvedinto the river.
The area stretching 10-12miles towardsthe north and 5-7 milestowards the south as the most
vulnerable. Excess water would cause flooding in the north, while people in south would be
forced to shift to other places in the face of the devastating erosion. There would be acute
unemployment astheir land had alreadygoneunder water. An estimated 4-5 thousand families
would be homelessand without any sourceof earnjng.

The data sheet annexed herewith describes the losses and damages only of 75 Chars. but
the number of char is not confined within this limit

6.      We Believe the ActionlOmission is the Responsibility of the Bank.

We strlonglybelievethat the Bankbear the responsibity of omissions as the bridge project is
abided by the rules defined in the resettlement guidelines of the Bank. The environmental
impact assessment is one of the key factors. The bank has not taken into considerationthe
miseries of the char people during drawing up the resettlement action plan. Since it is a bank
financed project so the responsibilities bestows upon the b& to look at the effects of the
bank-financed project on the char people. It was observed that the bank has not taken into
accomt the miseries of the char people. We, the aggrievedpeople of the chars stronglybelieve
that it is the responsibilityof the bank to ascertainthe extent and level of the damages in the
char areas causedby the bank-financed project.

                                                16

Since the bank is a co-financier and the bank has its own defined rules and procedures to be
followedir:the Bank financedproject any omissionaction amountingjeopardizingthe interest
of the people and violation of the Bank's rules makes the Bank responsible for such actions
omissions.

7.      We Have ComplainedMade an Effort to Complain to Bank Staff by @lescribe]:
        Please Attach Evidence or Explanation.

We registered our complaint with Mr. Arun Benerjee, Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Unit,
Bangladesh resident mission and informed him of the devastating impact of the bridge on the
cbar dwllers. Couple of meetings, both formal and informal,were manged to discuss on the
issues. We strivedhard to draw attention of the bank to the fact that the char people would be
exposed to the severe impact of the bridge. Like in the documents prepared by JMBA, the
Bank officialsduring discussionfailed to take cognizance of the fact that the Jamuna contains
charlands not oniy water channels and the chars are no barren lands, they shelter hundreds of
thousands of people with legal entitlement are the char lands. Later on we sent a number of
letters to the bank. To date, Bank could not initiate any effective discussion on the relevant
issues. The letters attached herewith (Annex) depict the course and nature of the
communicationwiththe Bank.

8.      We Received no Response; orWe Believe that the Response@)Attached is
         UnsatisfactoryBecause; [Describewhy]:

It is evident fi-omthe attached letters that the bank had not launched any effective process to
settle clown the matters. It is worth to mention that let alone the issues of accommodatingthe
interests of the char people when, we requested themto provide us relevant documentsbut the
Bank refused to supplyus thosewithout permission fi-omJMBA through there is no indication
that tbme is anybar to public access to suchdocuments.At differenttimeswe requested them
to investigate into the relevant matters but they did not respond to our request. (Annexed
herewiththe correspondencewith the Bank officials)

9.       In Additionwe Have Taken the Following Steps to Resolve our Problem:




We initiated a process of dialoguewiththe bank officialswith a view to bringing into light the
unattended issues. The interactionprocess was aimed at exploring the avenues for resolving
the problems.The interactionprocess did not yield optimumresults.



                                                17

We therqrOre believe that the above actions/omissions which are contrary to the above
policies orprocedures have materially and adversely affected our rightdinterests and request
the Panel to recommend to the Bank's Executive Directors that an investigation of these
matters be carried out in order to resolve theproblem.

As advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection is brief: We can
provide you with moreparticulars.




SIGNATURE:                   Majibulsuq Dulu

CONTACTADDRESS:              Jamuna Char IntegratedDevelopment Project
                              House # 37, Road # 4,DhamnondiNA, Dhaka, Bangladesh
                              Phone :865729,502391 Fax :880-2-866368

Attachments: [Yes][d ] [No][ ]

1.      Annex - O1    Proof of Authorizationby the AffectedPeople
2.      Annex - 02    Proof of CommunicationWith the ConcernedAgencies
3.
4.      Amex - 03A Proof of Land Entitlementof the AffectedPeople
        Annex - 03B Proof of Land Entitlement of the AffectedPeople
5.      Annex - 03C Proof of Land Entitlementofthe AffectedPeople
6.      Annex - 04     Char Inventory- Basis for Assessment of Damages

We authorizeyou to make this Request public [Yes][d ] [No][ ]




                                               18

