    BANGLADESH




JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT
     (CR. 2569-BD)




MANAGEMENTRESPONSE
          TO
  INSPECTION PANEL




   September20,1996

                       Abbreviations and Acronyms


ADB    -Asian Development Bank
BRAC   -an NGO in Bangladesh
BUET   -Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
CCL    -Cash Compensationunder Law
CMC    -Cofinanciers Monitoring Committee
CSC    -Construction Supervision Consultant
DHI    -Danish Hydraulic Institute
EFP    -Erosion and Flood Policy
EMAP    -EnvironmentalManagement Action Plan
EGB     -East Guide Bund
EU      -Environmental Unit
GOB     -Government of Bangladesh
IDA     -International Development Association
IRP     -Independent Review Panel
JCIDP   -Jamuna Char IntegratedDevelopmentProject
JMBA    -Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority
JMBP    -Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project
LA      -Land Acquisition
MARV    -Maximum Allowable ReplacementValue
MC      -Management Consultant
MDM     -Milestone Decision Meeting
NGO     -Non Governmental Organization
OECF    -Overseas Economic CooperationFund (Japan)
PAD     -Project Affected Dweller
PAP     -Project Affected Person
POE     -Panel of Experts
RDM     -an NGO in Bangladesh
RRAP    -Revised Resettlement Action Plan
RTW     -River Training Works
RU      -Resettlement Unit
SWMC    -Surface Water Modeling Center
TOR     -Terms of Reference
WB      -World Bank
WGB     -West Guide Bund

                                                 BANGLADESH

                       JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT (CR. 2569-BD)

                                     MANAGEMENTRESPONSE
                                         TO INSPECTIONPANEL


                                                Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                       No.

Executive Summary            ...................................................................................................          i

Fact Sheet about the Project             ........................................................................................

Introduction   .................................................................................................................

The Chars    ...................................................................................................................

Revised Resettlement Action Plan (RRAP) Consistentwith OD 4.30                                                ........................   2

The Erosion Policy        ......................................................................................................          3

Why the Final Location of the Bridge Could not be Determined Earlier                                               ....................   5

Timing of the Chars Survey and Survey of Affected Dwellers                                         ..................................     6

Water Level Change Due to the Bridge Constriction                                ..................................................       6

Addressing Specific Concerns Regarding RRAP and Chars                                           .....................................     7
       Allegation: Char people have not been included in the RRAP .........................                                               7
       Allegation: Lack of participation and informationamong people .................. 8
       Allegation: The Requester is dissatisfiedwith the response he
                       received when he first contactedthe Bank                                     .................................     8

Addressing Allegations Not Pertaining to Char Dwellers                                      ........................................      9
       Allegation: People are not receiving                           compensation                   ................................     9
       Allegation: The resettlement site represents an inferiorliving situation ......... O

Environmental Management Action Plan                             ................................................................. 1O

Implementation of the Erosion Policy                     .........................................................................      11

Independent Review Panel                           ...............................................................................       1 3

L   ATTACHMENTS

    1.  Matrix of Responses to Allegations
    2.  Attachment 1: Paper by Dr. SuzanneHanchett, October 29, 1993
        Attachment 2: Satellite images from 1978-1995
        Attachment 3: Mathematical Model reports for August 1996. The model
                       is capable of forecasting erosion based upon historical
                       floods. For any individual year, however, it is necessary
                       to know the specific flood characteristicsof that year
                       through the end of the flood season.
        Attachment 4: IDA'Sfax to JMBA dated April 8, 1996and JMBA's
                       response
        Attachment 5: Revised ResettlementAction Plan
        Attachment 6: ASTHR note of February 1994.
        Attachment 7: Missions' Aide Memoires of 1994, 1995and 1996,Excerpts
                       from the Aide Memoires and Correspondencewith JMBA
        Attachment 8: Second Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire,
                       September 1994. Milestone Meetings are a supervision feature
                       adopted for this project in view of its size and complexity. All
                       major stakeholders(GOB, Contractors, Supervision and
                       Management Consultants, and Cofinanciers)meet to review
                       project status and to deal with current issues. They take place
                       when major decisions on remedial actions are needed.
        Attachment 9: Approved EFP dated September7, 1996
        Attachment 1O: 4th Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire,
                       October 1995
        Attachment 11: 6th Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire,
                       July 1996
        Attachment 12: Feasibility Study's Forecast of Water Level Change Due
                       to the Bridge
        Attachment 13: Memo From The Designer of the River Training dated
                       September 1996
        Attachment 14: Excerpts from RDM (NGO) Carrying Out the Information
                       and Participation Campaigns
        Attachment 15: Law DifferentiatingBetween Genuine and Unlawful PADS,and
                       Criteria for Making That Distinction
        Attachment 16: Example of Unlawful Claims Determined According to the
                       New Law
        Attachment 17: Record of CorrespondenceBetween RMB and the Requester
        Attachment 18: Fax from SA1IN to JMBA dated June 3, 1996
        Attachment 19: Environmental ManagementAction Plan (EMAP) dated
                       January 1995
        Attachment 20: JMBA's Approval of the ImplementationAction Plan
        Attachment 21: Independent Review Panel

                                                  - 1 -


                                           BANGLADESH

                            JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT (CR. 2569-BD)

                                      MANAGEMENTRESPONSE
                                       TO INSPECTIONPANEL

                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



     1.     The Jamuna Bridge, financed by the Government,IDA, OECF of Japan and ADB,
    is probably the largest project that Bangladeshhas ever undertaken. It represents the
    culmination of a long-held national vision of ending the isolation of the northwestern
    region with its 27 million people and vast growthpotential by establishing a permanent
    transport link over the formidable Jamuna River. Successivegovernments have worked
    toward this goal through, inter alia, mobilizing since 1986over US$lOO million through
     specific taxes and adopting a landmarkresettlementpolicy that has become a model for
     other projects in Bangladesh. The project was approved by IDA's Board in February
     1994,and the Credit became effective in August 1994.
     ..
L    11.    The concerns expressed to the Inspection Panel by the char dwellers through the
    Jamuna Char Integrated Development Project (JCIDP)have been IDA's as well for some
    time. An estimated two to four million Bangladeshipeople live on chars which are sand
    bars, or temporary islands, created by seasonal flooding and unstable river paths. Many
     are inhabited. For the Jamuna river chars, about 500,000 dwellers are living, with a
    fraction of that estimated in the bridge impact area. Typically, char dwellers dismantle
    their homes and move during the annual rainy season (May through October) when the
     land floods, and find a completely new home severaltimes in one generation when their
     land disappears altogether from erosion. In the project area, char income typically
     derives from agriculture and fishing, with the main harvest in March-June and a smaller
    harvest in November-December. Public services on chars are virtually non-existent.
     Char dwellers' protection and mutual assistance come through membership in groups
     with strong leaders who offer a degree of security in exchangefor loyalty and tribute.
     The most important contribution to improving life for char dwellers would be to stabilize
    the chars, thus, increasing security. Although the Jamuna Bridge project studies indicate
    that some erosion is a likely result, the river training is likely to contribute to stabilizing
     some of the chars'. However, the JCIDP is concernedthat these effects will exacerbate
     the already precarious existence of char dwellers, and this concern is at the heart of the
     Request.




     1       Attached matrix, clause 4.

                                                   - 11-
L   iii.     The Request is based on the assumption that the char dwellers are not included in
    the Revised Resettlement Action Plan                  They are. The project has been based
    on a strategy of preparing in phases the detailed application of the RRAP to different
    affected groups. Phasing was required because given the ever-changingbehavior of the
    Jamuna River, the location of the bridge structureand guide bunds could only be
    finalized during construction3. The locations were decided in October 1995 (west guide
    bund) and July 1996(east guide bund). The first phase of the RRAP was defined in
    detail in 1994 and implemented to enable the river training works and east guide bund to
    be constructed. However, construction was delayed to October 1995and it was decided
    to start with the west guide bund first. This constituted the secondphase of the RRAP
    which permitted construction of the west guide bund from October 1995to June 1996.
    The third phase will compensate riverbank and char dwellers who suffer losses according
    to the Erosion and Flood Policy (EFP) which is a landmark in Bangladesh.

    iv.      Project-induced effects on chars will begin to manifest themselves after the
    current flood season, sometime in October 1996. At that time, it will be possible to
    identifj and compensate char dwellers. Sincethe agriculturalcycle would not produce a
    major harvest before March-June 1997,we expect that dwellers will have their
    compensation in-hand before production/income losses occur.

L   v.       A resettlement/compensation program for the char dwellers will be discussed with
    them as soon as they are identified. Representativesfrom the chars are expected to
    participate in the EFP plan committee4. There has been systematic local participation in
    the resettlement program, information campaigns and extensive work carried out by local
    NGOs. Consultation included visits to the project site and discussions with project-
    affected people (PADS)about their ideas for the project. Consultationprograms have
    been carried out only in areas identifiedto be affected, and where there are identifiable
    legitimate stakeholders. To do otherwise would cause confusion,unrealistic expectations
    and exaggerated or false claims for compensation,as was experienced on a large scale in
    the second phase of the RRAP.




L    2       RRAP and SAR para. 4.39 and Section 1.1 of Annex 4.4 ("Resettlement").
     3       SAR, para. 4.33.
     4       Fax to JMBA dated September 9, 1996.

                                             - ...
                                               111-

vi.     The new resettlement policy adopted by the Governmentduring project
preparation is based upon the principle that project affectedpeople should benefit from
the project. The            key objectives are to minimize involuntary resettlement; carry
out resettlement as development programs with particular attention to community
participation and the needs of the weakest groups; compensatelosses at full replacement
cost; ensure that host communities benefit; and ensure that absence of legal title does not
bar compensation. RRAP contains a matrix of categoriesof losses, definitions of
entitlements, applications, additional services,implementationarrangements, and
responsible agencies. Category 14coversthe rights of those affected by river erosion or
flooding caused by the project5.

        The recently adopted EFP, which has been under preparation since 1994,is being
translated into a detailed, third phase of the RRAP. The Policy provides that all persons,
both owners and occupiers, on the riverbank and chars in the affected area who
experience erosion for any reason will be compensated,and those affected by increased
flooding due to the bridge will also be compensated. A program is being prepared to
implement the policy, including specific guidelines and organizational arrangements.




        See Attachment 6.

                                            - iv -


                                      BANGLADESH

                     JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT (CR. 2569-BD)

                         FACT SHEET ABOUT THE PROJECT

1.      Board Date: 02/17/94         Signing Date: 02/25/94       Effective Date: 08/12/94

2.      Cost: At present, the total project cost is estimated at $ 743 million compared to
the SAR estimate of $696 million. The additional cost represents inflation and some
extra cost due to soil instability problems.

3.      Financing: Joint Financing: IDA, OECF of Japan and ADB, $200 million each,
the balance is to be funded by the Governmentof Bangladesh.

4.      Project Objectives: The project aims at achievingthe strategic objective of
connecting the east and west parts of the country separatedby the Jamuna River, thus
stimulating economic growth and social well-beingby facilitating inter-regional, cross
river transport of passengers, freight and transmission of electricity more economically
and efficiently.

5.      Summary of Project Components: The project consists of: (a) construction of
a 4-lane roadway bridge with shoulders and foundation adequateto carry a meter gauge
railway line in the future; (b) construction of two end viaducts; (c) construction of two
guide bunds (east and west of the river); (d) construction of east and west approach
roads; (e) a program to mitigate project effects on the environment including
resettlement; and (f) technical assistance and training.

6.      Implementation Status:
        * The bridge piles are complete, and the superstructureis progressing 6 months

        ** The west guide bund is complete.
           behind schedule.

           The east guide bund location and shape is finalized; construction will start on
           October 15, 1996.
        * The approach roads constructionis progressing about 8 months behind
           schedule.
        * The implementation of the Revised ResettlementAction Plan (RRAP) is
           progressing close to schedule (Plan was revised accordingto IDA'Scomments
           prior to project approval).
        * The implementation of the EnvironmentalManagementAction Plan (EMAP) is
           progressing with various delays from the modified schedule. However, the
           objective of the EMAP is expectedto be achieved.
        * The technical assistance component is progressing on schedule.

                                              - v -

7.      Project Monitoring and Supervision: As per the SAR,the project has the
following monitoring and supervisionelements:
        * The Engineer (Construction SupervisionConsultants, CSC), Rende1Palmer and
          Tritton (UK), NEDECO (Netherlands)and Bangladesh Consultant Ltd., are
          responsible for project supervision and addressingtechnical issues, since they

        * The Management Consultants (MC), Sir William Halcrow and Partners are
          were the designers.

          responsible for assisting the client in its role. They are mainly monitoring the
        * resettlement and environmentalcomponents.
          Panel of Experts (POE) assists the borrower and the cofinanciers in technical
          and environmental monitoring of the project components. The Panel is
          composed of six internationallyknown experts and three local leading experts.
          The Panel oversaw the project during the design phase and continue to oversee

        * Project Monitoring Committee (PMC) is composed of the members from the
          it during the implementationphase.

          Resident Missions of the three cofinanciersand the JMBA. The Committee
          meets on a monthly basis to follow-up on implementationissues.
        * Milestone Decision Meetings (MDM): Due to the complexity of the project and
          the need to address issues in a timely manner, are a supervision feature adopted
          for this project in view of its complexity and the need to address issues in a
          timely manner. All major stakeholders(GOB, Contractors, Supervision and
          Management Consultants, Panel of Experts, IDA and the other Cofinanciers, as
          well as any needed experts for specificissues) meet frequently (there have been
          six MDMs so far) to review project status and to deal with current issues.

8.      The Independent Review Panel (IRP): The cofinanciersdecided during the
Fourth Milestone Meeting to form an internationalIndependentReview Panel to review
the status of the RRAP and EMAP and to advise the cofinanciers on the adequacy of the
measures taken according to international standards. The IRP includes two leading
Japanese social and environmental experts and anothertwo from the UK and Canada.
The IRP started working in the field on August 20, 1996and is expectedto submit their
report by end of October 1996. Meanwhile,their preliminary report was received after
meeting the Requester (at his request)6.




6       IRPPreliminary Report (Attachment 21).

                                               BANGLADESH

                            JAMUNA BRIDGE PROJECT (CR. 2569-BD)

                                      MANAGEMENTRESPONSE
                                                      TO
                                          INSPECTIONPANEL

     Introduction

     1.      On August 26, 1996,the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (the
     Request) from the "Jamuna Char Integrated DevelopmentProject" (JCIDP), a
     Bangladeshi NGO. Although the Request states many allegations, all of which are
     addressed in the attached matrix, the thrust of JCIDP's concern is that by failing to
     address the project's effects on char dwellers, OD4.30 (InvoluntaryResettlement) is not
     being complied with. In accordancewith the Inspection Panel's procedures, a response
     from IDA'SManagement is to be provided to the Panel by September25, 1996. This is
     Management's Response, explaining how IDA's policies and procedures have been
     followed and that the subject matter of the Request is being dealt with appropriately'.

     2.     The following paragraphs document IDA's compliancewith the relevant policies
L    and procedures.


     The Chars

     3.     The islan~sin the Jamuna river (called Chars in Bengali) are sand bars (shoals), or
     temporary islands, created by seasonal flooding and unstable river paths. The chars
     change their formover the years, and migrate laterally and longitudinally according to the
     level of the flood each year. The Jamuna river flow is seasonal,with the flood season
     from May to October each year. Chars appear and disappear as a natural phenomenon in
     the river, mairily during the flood season. Hundreds of chars exist in the Jamuna river,
     over a length of more than 400 kms, with their inhabitants estimated at about 500,0002.
     Only a small fraction of those chars (to be determinedafter the current flood season) are
     in the bridge impact area (about 18kms, see para. 6). The attached satellite images from
     1978-1995 give an indication of the vast changes involved3.

     4.     Until the specific construction sites for the bridge and ancillary works were
     decided (in October 1995and July 1996,para. 15),individual chars could not be


     1See para. 33 of Inspection Panel's Operatingprocedures.

L
1     Attachment 1:Paper by Dr. SuzanneHanchett, October29,1993.

      Attachment 2: Satellite images from 1978-1995.

                                                          2


L   identified for monitoring for possible construction impacts, although a broad area up and
    downstream of the likely construction site has been under surveillancethrough satellite
    imagery for many years. A complicating factor is that construction of the guide bunds
    and the bridge foundation can be implementedonly in the dry season (from October to
    May of the following year) for technical reasons4. This means erosion impacts, if any,
    would occur during the rainy season following the relevant construction, and such effects
    would be observable mainly after the rainy season flood waters recede. The west guide
    bund and the bridge pile foundationwere built during the last dry season (October 1995
    to May 1996),the east guide bund will be built next dry season (October 1996to May
     1997). As a result, JMBA will soon (November 1996)be in a position to determine, what
    chars have actually been affected (this could not have been done sooner because the water
    level is too high). A physical model has been built in Dhaka, and a mathematical model
    has been completed to forecast the erosion pattern of the river shores with and without the
    bridge, using historical floods'. The model is being expanded6to determinethe effects
    on the chars using historical flood data for calibration.


    Revised Resettlement Action Plan (RRAP) Consistentwith OD 4.30

    5.      The Jamuna Bridge Project is the first major project in Bangladesh for which a
    comprehensive resettlement policy has been developed. GOB has agreed to a policy
L   framework which is consistent with the principles of OD 4.30. This policy framework
    was submitted to IDA as part of the RRAP in October 1993,and approved by IDA with
    some minor adjustments7. It is now being implemented.

    6.      The approach adopted views resettlement as a developmentprogram, with
    particular attention to the needs of the weakest groups. All affectedpersons should
    benefit from the project, or at least maintain their standard of living8. Compensation
    levels have been set equal to the replacementvalue of land and other assets, instead of the
    arbitrarily fixed compensation levels previously used in cases of eminent domain and
     land expropriation. The important principle of according entitlements to users of
    resources and notjust legal owners has also been established in the RRAP, for the first
    time in Bangladesh. The RRAP further includes guidelines for public consultation and
    participation, as well as grievance mechanisms in cases of disagreements over
     compensation..

     4Dredging can only be carried out in the dry season, and the same for driving the foundation piles.
     5Attachment 3: ]MathematicalModel Reports for August 1996. The model is capable of forecasting
         erosion based upon historical floods. For any individual year, however, it is necessary to know the
         specific flood characteristics of that year through the end of the flood season.

      Attachment 4: IDA'Sfax to JMBA dated April 8, 1996and JMBA's response.

L    ISAR paras. 4.36 and 4.37, and OD4.30.
     8Attachment 5: Revised Resettlement Action Plan.

                                                      3


L   7.       The various categories of losses, affectedpersons, and entitlements have been set
    out in a detailed matrix, with categories of losses and entitlements. However, it is
    important to note that the final designs of the bridge and its location were not known at
    the time the plan was prepared and approved. A phased approachwas therefore adopted.
    The RRAP included a comprehensiveand detailedprogram for the first phase, land
    acquisition in the eastern bridge end area. Further studies of impacts were to be
    undertaken once the relevant designs were finalized'. Accordingly, the last category in
    the entitlement matrix, Category 14,safeguardsthe rights of affectedpersons not yet
    identified. The possibility of losses occurring as a result of project induced erosion or
    flooding was envisaged, and Category 14mentions this likelihood. This issue, and the
    situation of the char dwellers, was raised informallyby some of the Executive Directors
    before the prqject was approved by IDA'S Board with the staff".

    8.       During supervision missions, meetings and correspondence,the possibility of
    project induced erosion and flooding has been discussed further". IDA first requested
    that the Government move ahead and approve a formal EFP under the project in 1994,to
    detail the entitlements under Category 14of the RRAP. Such a policy would
    acknowledge Government responsibility for project-inducedlosses of land and other
    resources, even if these losses were not caused by formal land acquisition. This policy
    would apply primarily to the char dwellers,but also to the people living along the river
    banks.

L   9.       The policy has now been approved, and implementationwill start immediately
    after the water level recedes, in November 1996. Consultationwith affected people will
    start immediat.elyafter their identificationby the end of the current flood season.


    The Erosion Policy

    10.      For generations, monsoon and river-induced erosion and flooding have been an
    accepted and commonplace feature of riverine life in Bangladesh. People who lived in
    areas subject to these phenomena adapted their lifestyles and culture to it. The
    Government did not assume liability for this annual event. With the advent of the
    Jamuna Bridge Project and the compensationrequirements of IDA and the other
    Cofinanciers, however,that needed to change. The completelynew concept of
    compensating project-induced erosion and flooding raised complex political and technical
    issues and led to substantial debate and controversy. This came to a head starting in



      SAR, page 86: Consecutive resettlement actions related to other components of this project will be
                     "
          derived by ,analogyfrom this RRAP".

     lo Attachment 6: ASTHR note of February 1994.
L       Attachment 7: Missions' Aide Memoires of 1994, 1995and 1996, excerpts from the Aide Memoires
          and correspondence with JMBA.

                                                           4


L   October 1994when IDA and the other Cofinanciersrequested at the Second Milestone
    Meeting that the Government prepare and adopt a suitablepolicy in this regard12. The
    first policy was reviewed by IDA in July 1995. Debate on it continued,with a six-month
    hiatus in the first half of 1996due to securityproblems related to pre-election political
    turmoil in the country which also affectedthe bridge construction. A policy was finally
    approved on September 7, 199613.

    11.      The policy adopted (Erosion and Flood Policy, EFP) is generous and simple. It
    represents a new era in environmental legislation and practice in Bangladesh. The EFP
    includes compensation for all erosion in the bridge impact area, whether due to bridge
    impact or any other factor. Increased flooding that adversely affects crops would also be
    compensated. The EFP defines the bridge area of impact on erosion to include 10kms
    downstream and 8 kms upstream. For flooding effects, the EFP defines 12kms upstream
    of the bridge as the possible impact distance. The EFP is time-bound for 5 years after
    construction of the closure dam on the west in 1995,based on expert estimates of the time
    required for m.orphologica1changes in the river to stabilize. This means that erosion
    and/or flooding impacts could occur for up to 5 years after construction starts, and that
    affected people would be correspondingly compensated. IDA would request that this
    time span be reviewed in light of actual data, as needed, in the future. The EFP provides
    for compensation of affected char dwellers and flood plain occupants, as soon as they are
    identified.
L   12.      Two elements need to be in place before a socio-economicsurveyto determine
    the number of persons affected by project-related erosion or flooding, and their location,
    can be carried out. The first element is a policy defining impact area and compensation
    parameters, which has now been adopted. The second element is that the flood waters of
    the May-October 1996,monsoon season need to recede so that its physical impacts can
    be identified. This will occur by November 1996,and the socio-economic survey of
    affected persons will begin in that month. Thus, affected persons including char dwellers
    will benefit from the project in line with IDA'SOD4.30. The full effect of the bridge will
    occur during the 1997high water season (May to October 1997),after the east guide bund
    is constructed during the next dry season from October 1996to May 1997. The affected
    persons, after the current season and after each of the next four years floods, will be
    identified annually and compensated accordingto the EFP even if compensated for
    previous losses. Work still remains to be done before this policy is made operational.
    More specific guidelines need to be worked out, by JMBA, as well as the organizational



     l2 Attachment 8: Second Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire, September 1994.
          Milestone Meetings are a supervision feature adopted for this project in view of its size and
          complexity. GOB, Contractors, Supervision and Management Consultants, and Cofinanciers meet to
L         review project status and to deal with current issues. They take place when major decisions on
          remedial actions are needed.

     l3 Attachment 9: Approved EFP dated September 7, 1996.

                                                  5

t   framework. An IDNOECF mission is currently in Bangladesh discussing these issues
    with GOB.

     13.    If GOB has approved the EFP sooner, it would have given more time for working
    out an entitlement framework and its implementationas well as for preparing for the
    unique challenges of dealing with the char dwellers. In addition to the uncertain physical
    situation of the chars, providing assistanceto the char dwellers is likely to mean working
    through existing group formations rather than directly with individual entitled persons, as
    for other categories of entitled persons under the RRAP. These groups are dominated by
    local strong men, who typically control and allocate access to land and other resources
    through patron-client type relationships. Disputes are common, as is violence in
    competing for the scarce resources. Ensuringthat the full amount of assistance is
    provided to entitled persons in a transparent manner will require sensitivity, knowledge of
    local conditions, and good organizational arrangements. While the late approval of the
    erosion policy has put the work behind schedule, every effort is now being made to make
    the policy operational at the end of the current flood season, and we anticipate that this
    will be achievled. Since the agriculturalcycle on the chars would not produce a major
    harvest before March-June 1997,we expect that dwellers will have their compensation in-
    hand before pi-oductioníincomelosses occur (para. 30).


    Why the Final Location of the Bridge CouldNot Be DeterminedEarlier
L
    14.     The Jamuna River is a braided river, characterizedby continuous shifting of its
    channels and the movement of its course in a lateral dire~tion'~.At any point along its
    course, neither the overall width of the river nor its location stays the same for a long
    period of time. The tendency for individual river channels as well as the whole river
    course to shift must be impeded locally for the river to continueto flow under the new
    bridge structure and individual river channelshave to be prevented from attacking
    approach embankments. This requires works to protect bridge abutments and approach
    viaducts and embankments from the erosive force of shiftingriver channels.


    15.     Due to the shifting nature of the river, the final location of the Jamuna bridge
    could not be determined before start of construction. The location of the east guide bund
    was determined in October 1994. Due to delays in startingthe project there was not
    enough time fix-mobilization duringthe 1994-95dry season. A decision was taken
    during the Second Milestone Decision Meeting to postpone bund construction and to start
    with the west ,guidebund instead during the 1995-96dry season, to be followed by
    construction of the east guide bund starting in October 1996. The west guide bund was
    built on a char in the river, 4.8 kms from the location of the eastern one. There had been
    a provision in the project to lengthenthe bridge by 500m (to a total of 5.3 kms) sothat, if

L    14SAR, para. 42!.

                                                          6


L   the char disappeared in the 1995flood season,the west guide bund could be built on the
    western flood plain. Fortunately, the char did not disappear. The bridge contractor also
    started driving the piles in the water, starting from the east, in October 1995and the
    piling was completed in July 1996. Hence,there were no effects on the chars as a result
    of bridge construction before May 1996,the start of the rainy season. Such effects will
    only be known when the water level starts receding in October 1996.


    Timing of the:Chars Surveyand Survey of Affected Dwellers

     16.     The bridge axis was tentatively fixed in October 1994,subjectto the final location
    of the west guide bund. The west guide bund's final location was determined on October
     15, 199515.In July 1996,the shape, length, and location of the east guide bund were
    finalized16. Tlhe contract for the mathematicalmodel was signed in July 1995with the
    Danish Hydraulic Institute (DHI), in associationwith the Bangladesh Surface Water
    Modeling Center (SWMC), and preparations started as soon as the location and shape of
    the west guide bund was determined. At present, the model is complete and running.

     17.     The survey of project affected dwellers (PADs) can be started once the current
    flood season ends and the affected chars and banks are visible. Only at that time, can the
    new topography of the chars and banks be determined, with any degree of confidence,
L   and surveyed. At present, the model is only capable of forecastingwhat would happen to
    the chars and banks if the 1995flood recurs in 1996,or any other historical flood. In
    order to determine the actual effects, the characteristicsof the present flood have to be
    known and applied to the model. The model would verify the impact area determined
    using the characteristics of the current flood season and historical floods. It would also
    determine the effect of the bridge on the water levels in the impact area. Subsequently,
    before the end of 1996,surveys of char and bankline PADs would be conducted.


    Water Level ChangeDue to the Bridge Constriction

     18.     The rise in the water level due to the bridge constriction of the river upstream of
    the bridge is estimated not to exceed 0.30m at the peak of the 100year flood17. The
    maximum rise in water level would be at the bridge site. Water level rise would decrease
    rapidly with distance upstream, to the extent that within a few kms it is reduced to
     O. l/.15m. Jamuna river water is heavily laden with sediment during the flood season, and
    this rise of water level would cause increased sedimentationon the chars affected, thus
     raising their level. Therefore, after the flood recedes, people on the chars would hardly


     l5 Attachment 10:4th Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire, October 1995.

     l6 Attachment 11.:6th Milestone Decision Meeting Minutes and Aide Memoire, July 1996.
L    17 Attachment l;!: Feasibility Study'sforecast of water level change due to the bridge.

                                                      7


i   be affected by this water level rise18. The only expected effects would be to change the
    pattern of erosion and accretion, mainly downstream,compensation for which is included
    in the EFP in :linewith IDA policies and procedures. The positive effect of the bridge,
    however, is that it is expectedto stabilizethe river's lateral migration and thus the large
    lateral erosive patterns associatedwith this migration. It is also expected that some of the
    chars, particularly south of the bridge and to the west, would be stabilized.

    19.      In November 1994the contractorclosed the northern entrance of the Dhaleswari
    river, a small tributary of the Jamuna river in the east floodplain. The river spontaneously
    opened another channel south of the bridge location that substitutedmost of required
    water and fish from the north intake. At the peak of the flood, the Dhaleswari northern
    intake used to deliver a discharge of about 400 cu. sec., while the Jamuna discharge is
    between 65, O00 to 91,000 cu. secs., depending on the level of each flood (see footnote
    14). Therefore, closing the northern intake of the Dhaleswaricould not have raised the
    water level in Jamuna by more than a few millimeters, which would not have had any
    tangible effects on the chars. The new southern channel did, however, cause some
    erosion on its shores and people were paid to stabilizethem and the affectedpersons will
    be compensated as provided under the EFP.


    Addressing Specific Concerns RegardingRRAP and Chars
L   20.      The major concerns raised by the Requester are discussed below and a detailed
    response to each allegation included in the attached matrix.

    21.      Allegation: Char people have not been included in the RRAP: As a group,
    households and people living on the chars and riverbanks who may be affected by the
    project have been included as PADs to be identified and their individual entitlements
    determined, once such impacts are known. It has been clear all along that the people
    living on the chars, who would be affectedby the project, are particularly vulnerable and
    that they should be compensated, and that efforts shouldbe made so that they benefit
    from the project. This was stated clearly in the RRAP as "Coordinate with JMBA-EU
    (Environmental Unit) regarding possible adverse impact on population because of the
    changed river regime and where necessary assist JMBA-EU to design and carry out
    mitigatory measures (page 36)". This will be done, in accordancewith OD4.30 and the
    EFP as soon as these PADs are identified.

    22.      The EFP will be implemented followingthe recession of the water after this
    year's rainy season (OctoberAVovember 1996). This implementationwill be closely
    monitored by IDA (see para.31). Determiningto what extent there has been erosion in
    the chars and riverbanks in the project-affectedarea, and to what extent the project has
    caused changes in water levels of the riverbanks and chars will be surveyed and analyzed

L
     l8 Attachment 13: Memo from the designer of the River Training dated September 1996.

                                                       8

L   by an expert panel, using the aforementionedhydrological and mathematical models, as
    well as satellite imagery with historical comparisons. In cases where it is determined that
    there have beem negative impacts due to erosion or flooding, the people living there will
    be surveyed and incorporated into the RRAP as PADs, in line with the policy guidelines.
     Extension services and assistance to PADs will be coordinatedby the JMBA's
     Resettlement Unit. The RRAP sets out guidelines on implementationof such work by
     local NGO's, in partnership with project authorities.

    23.      Allegation: Lack of participation and information among people. Information
    campaigns, group formation, and participation have been undertaken among those
    identified as affected so far; both people whose land would be acquired, and members of
    host communities in cases of resettlement". This has been spelled out in the RRAP, page
     70. Until now, specific groups of char dwellers have not been identified as PADs, as
    discussed above. Until a clear erosion policy was approved,the design and location of
    the bridge finalized, and information available about impacts, consultation with large
    numbers of people would have caused confusion,raised unrealistic expectations, and
    possibly caused exaggerated or false claims for compensation,as occurred in other parts
    of the project. On the west bank, thousands of structureswere erected in an attempt to
    obtain unlawfiul gains in 1994í95. A special law had to be enacted to deal with this issue
    and set out criteria to distinguish between genuine and unlawful structures2'. As an
    example, out of 2,600 houses surveyedby the District Commissionerin July 1995, and
L   after applying the new law, only about 600 werejudged genuine structures2'.
    Unfortunately, the people with unlawful intentions were well organized and powerfully
    connected, which meant that considerable Government and IDA effort and time was
    required to resolve the issue. It would be prudent to avoid similar episodes. For these
    reasons, it wa:; agreed to defer consultationswith char dwellers.


    24.      Allegation: The Requester is dissatisfiedwith the responsehe receivedwhen
    he first contacted the Bank.
             A record of the correspondencebetween the Requester and the Resident Mission
    in Bangladesh (RMB) is attached and is more extensivethan that submitted by the
    Requester2. Until early 1996,communicationsto RMB dealt with accounts and records
    rather than the:issues raised in the August 18 Request for Inspection. In addition to
    meeting with .JCIDP, RMB organized a meeting for them with the Secretaryof JMBA to
     discuss the issues. The Requester unfortunately declinedto participate in this meeting.


     19 Attachment 14:Excerpts from RDM (NGO) Report dated December 15, 1994,carrying out the
          information and participation campaigns.

     2o Attachment 15: Law differentiating between genuine and unlawful PADs, and criteria for making that
          distinction.
L,   LI Attachment 16: Example of unlawful claims determined according to the new law.
     22 Attachment 17: Record of correspondence between Rh4B and the Requester.

                                                         9


L   An Independent Review Panel (IRP), commissionedJune 20,1996, by IDA and the other
     Cofinanciers to investigate and evaluate the project's environmentaland resettlement
    programs, commented in its preliminary report that JCIDP had approachedthe Bank's
    Inspection Panel as a first rather than last resort for its concerns (see para.32 and
    Attachment 2:I).


    Addressing Allegations not pertaining to char dwellers

    25.     The above addressed the concerns of the Requester as representing char dwellers.
    The issues raised below do not pertain to char dwellers. Nevertheless, we wish to address
    them and set the record straight.

    26.     Allegation: People are not receivingfull compensation.
            (i)       The Requester argues that project affectedpeople (PADs) are not
                 receiving the full value of the compensationthey are entitled to. This
                 allegation refers to people already included in the resettlement program. The
                 strategy is to give the PADs the means to find land elsewhere and disperse
                 over a wide area. Land acquired in such a way is released voluntarily by the
                 owners and allows PADs to settle in an area of their personal choice. This is
                 consistent with OD4.30, and the principle of "Land for Land". Ensuring that
L                people are compensated at replacement cost is critical in a project of this
                 magnitude. Under the Bangladesh Law a local GOB official (Deputy
                 Commissioner, DC) pays the basic compensationpeople are eligible for under
                 the law, and JMBA pays the balance to cover the differential between basic
                 compensation and replacement cost. There have been numerous delays and
                 difficulties related to replacement cost compensation,and it has been a subject
                 of continuous discussion between IDA and JMBA23.Many delays are
                 caused by incomplete and inaccurate land records. Some of the problems of
                 valuation and compensation are discussed in the RRAP, page 69f.

            (ii)       Land market surveyshave been undertakento establish the level of
                 compensation, based on the concept of maximum allowable replacement value
                 of Land (MARV). The SAR statesthat Replacementvalue would be
                 determined on a phased basis, and the compensationlevel will be adjusted
                 throughout the project24,JMBA is revising the MARV this year with another
                 market survey. IDA recognizesthat compensationlevels, as actually
                 implemented, have in many cases been inadequate,because of delays and
                 illegal activities, and has addressedthis systematicallyduring monitoring and
                 supervision. Recently, the Bank suggestedto JMBA that closer involvement


     23Resettlement Missions Aide Memoires, see Attachment 7
L        also refer to the letter of June 3, 1996(Attachment 18).
     24SAR page 94.

                                                  10


L               of responsible local NGOs and independent groups to monitor payments,
                would allow greater accountability and transparency, and bring greater
                pressure on local officials and project authorities to ensure that compensation
                is paid in full2'. This is currentlyunder discussion with ajoint IDNOECF
                mission in the field.


    27.      Allegation: The resettlementsite represents an inferior living situation. The
    Requester argues that moving to a resettlement site represents a deterioration in quality of
    life for rural firmers. This argument seems to be based on a misunderstanding, since it
    implies that a main objective of the resettlement policy is to move people to a
    resettlement site. A key feature of the RRAP is the exact opposite, to provide incentives
    for people to resettle themselves on farmland and continue with their way of life.
    Resettlement sites are to be much smallerthan originally envisaged and will be provided
    in a surplus area within the East Bridge End envelope or otherwise in smaller units
    scattered over the immediate surroundingsof the PAD area. There are improvements to
    be found in resettlement sites for groups such as squatters and utulis, but there are doubts
    whether people who owned homestead land would find resettlement sites an attractive
    option. It has been recognized that high density resettlement sites can become centers of
    social friction due to complex socialpatterns that get interwovenrather quickly. The
    original concept of a large resettlement site of 131ha. on the east bank has consequently
L   been abandoned and only a small site is envisagedunder the RRAP. There is also no
    intention to make this resettlement site so attractivethat it distracts PADSfrom getting
    homestead land elsewhere.


    Environmental Management Action Plan

    28.      An Environmental ManagementAction Plan (EMAP)was prepared by the
    Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) in January 199526.The
    plan was approved by IDA. The plan makes provisions for monitoring, control, and
    mitigation of environmental problems associated with constructionworks and closure of
    the Dhaleswari intake. The plan provides financial resources for a wildlife management
    program, fisheries'development, agriculturalproductivity improvements,reforestation
    works, trainiqg, and erosion control in the project area. The plan makes explicit reference
    to JMBA's intention to use local NGO's and consultants,which has been done, to
    facilitate public consultations, surveys and interviews, and other information
     dissemination procedures. It mandates and provides resources for monitoring of surface
     hydrology and erosion through the project area. All this work is under implementation
     albeit with some starting delays.


t    25Attachment 18:Fax letter from SAlINto JMBA dated June 3, 1996.
     26Attachment 19:Environmental Management Action Plan (EMAP) dated January 1995.

                                                   11


    29.             The project has received a lot of media attention, and views both in
G   support and against the project have been expressed. Substantialpublic consultation and
    involvement has taken place during the EA and other planning studies, especially during
    the socio-ecoriomic/populationsurveys. Consultationincluded visits to the project sites
    and discussions with PADs about their ideas for the project. Responses of the PADs
    were noted, analyzed and used for the preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan27.
    Local public involvement will be a continuousprocess. In addition, the Jamuna Bridge
    tax has insured public awareness of the project at the national level.

    30.     Sinceproject effectiveness, IDA and the GOB have aggressively pursued the
    implementation of the EMAP. IDA has received frequent updates on the implementation
    status of all EMAP components and, though there were initially some delays, the goals of
    the EMAP sub-components remain relevant and attainablethroughout the project area.
    IDA has supported a number of technical field missions involving environmental and
    fisheries specialists and was instrumental in establishingthe Independent Review Panel
    which would provide direct assistance in strengtheningthe EMAP and the RRAP. The
    active level of involvement during project implementationindicates IDA'Scontinued and
     strong commitment to achieving the objectives of the EMAP.


    Implementationof the Erosion Policy

L    3 1.   Implernentation of the following action plan by JMBA was approved by them on
     September 18,,1996as follows28.

        * Finalize (andapprove the Erosion Policy                     September07, 1996(Actual)

        * Collect Satellite Imagery for October 1996
          and January 1997                                            November 1996/
                                                                      February 1997

        * Carry out Aerial Photography of the affected area           November 1996
       * Carryout socio-economic surveysof
         PADs affected by erosion and flooding                        Start:   November 1996
                                                                      Complete: January 1997

       * Determine affected chars and banks from Imagery
         and Aerial Photos                                            December 1996

       * Determine chars and bank erosion and
         flooding effects and verify by land surveys                  February 1997

     21
L      Report by ADB, dated October 14, 1994(Appraisal Report).
     28Attachment 20: JMBA's approval of the Implementation Action Plan

                                                  12


L     * Device plan to assist char dwellers in the affected area,
        in education, health, agriculture,based on workshop
        with char dwellers and its recommendations               March 1997

      * National experts, legal social, and environmental
        experts, including relevant NGOs will be invited
        to the wor.kshop                                         March 1997

      * Disbursement of compensationto affected PADS             April 1997

    32.     The action plan will be closely monitored by supervision missions during this
    period. Ajoint IDNOECF mission is in the field now and others are planned for January
    1997and April 1997. Those missions would consist mainly of social scientists and
    environmentalists who would monitor implementationof the action plan and assist in
    overcoming any problems which may arise, to help ensurethat affectedpeople receive
    adequate compensation in a timely manner. The experience gained during this first year
    is expected to simplifj replication of the EFP program in following years.

    Independent Review Panel (IRP)


L   33.     During the October 1995- Fourth Milestone Meeting,the Cofinanciersof the
    project agreed to convene an International IndependentReview Panel to review the
    quality of implementation of the RRAP and EMAP. The IRP was formed earlier this
    year and started field work on August 20, 1996,under TOR approved by GOB and the
    Cofinanciers. The Requester had a meeting with the IW in response to his request to
    them, and the IRP comments are attached29.




L    29Attachment 2 11: Independent Review Panel.

L




     B
    d




     3
     .3
     c,
     U



    Hüa
     Q)




    cO
     Q)



     c,
   83c,
     rn




t
           * - p l m



c
C

Eo
E

z
O




c
O
=
.-a
om
5
o


c
mn
   ' -

y a
O S
o 0
J Q
m a ,

i
c
u)
P)

O

lì?
a.
u)


W

     -a
     j.

     mf
     2
     c
     O




       ai
       >
       o
       O
       m




       U
       8
       c
       3




c

I

   C

L




             .-L    a
                  .-fj
                  4-


                    al
                    al
                  (B




                      al
                      U
     ai               C
     x>mi             v
                      m

                      F
                      ln

     E                .-
                      c
                      FJ
                      8
     8O               U
                      C

     C                3
     3
     2E
     o
     u
     a,
     a,
     B




L
     5
     N

c




                          J
                          ?




     K . .
   - - N     r   c u m
                            o
                            U




c
 i  N         5
              N           Rv

      n
      al
      Is)




             <z>
             r\l

             U
             8
             C
             3cOa
             3




L-           $9.
             8 % O

             V ) V




c

r    c v o




ri
N


; n i   <I,   7   ni




               G
               m        m
                       o

      I


rn         U

E3            n Ia,




*5Pm
C
3
9

=
i
P
8
K
3
EEO
c
v)
C




al
al
Y l




        NU

c


     .-"a,
     C_n




              o




   2 4 ni
    U




L

U
E3u      O

         3
         U
g!       g!
c
c
al       E
E .      al
E O      E .
O v )
0 0      0 0
giì




u)




               ai
                Tr

5
n

        I


         a,
         u)
         c
         O
         Q
         u)
         2
         u)

         $ h j
         a"
         alo
         (BZ




z-ni
U




ni
in



