Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF058310
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement
 
(Environment Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated August 23, 2007 
 
Page  2
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF058310 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 23, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOLDOVA
 (“Recipient”); and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (“GEF). 
 
Whereas the Recipient shall cause the Soroca Apa Canal to carry out Part A of 
the Project utilizing a portion of the financing made available by the International 
Development Association, acting in its own capacity, under the Development Credit 
Agreement No. 3763-MD (Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project) between the 
International Development Association and the Recipient, as amended, dated June 9, 
2003 (the Development Credit Agreement). 
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this 
Agreement.  
 
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out 
Parts B, C and D of the Project through the ACTD in accordance with the provisions of 
Article II of the Standard Conditions and shall cause the Sorroca Apa Canal to carry out 
Part A of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard 
Conditions and the Implementation Agreement. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
2
-
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to four million five 
hundred sixty two thousand Dollars ($4,562,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Article IV 
Remedies of the World Bank 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 
(a)  
The Soroca Apa Canal shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
 
(A) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit No. 3763-MD shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Development Credit Agreement, or 
 
(B) 
Credit No. 3763-MD shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the World Bank that:  
 
(A) 
 such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Recipient 
to perform any of its obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement; and  
 
(B)  
adequate funds for Part A of the Project are available to 
the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01. 
The Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the execution and 
delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient has been duly authorized or 
ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the World Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank showing 
the following matters: 
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, this Agreement, to which it is a party, 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of, such party and is legally binding upon 
such party in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
the Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized by the 
Recipient and the Soroca Apa Canal, and is legally binding upon 
its parties in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
the land acquisition required under Part A.1 of the Project has 
been undertaken in compliance with the relevant laws of the 
Recipient. 
 
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Cosmonautilor Street, 7 
 
2005
Chisinau 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(373-22) 24-0055 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Mihail Pop 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Melanie Marlett 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of sanitary services in 
Soroca and reduce the discharge of pollutants, including nutrients, from Soroca municipal 
sources that flow into the Nistru River and demonstrate and disseminate cost-effective 
nutrient reduction strategies and technologies for municipal wastewater sources.
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
Wastewater Management in Soroca 
1. 
Providing support for the rehabilitation of the wastewater collection system,
 
necessary sewerage pressure pipelines and the construction of wastewater 
treatment facility using constructed wetlands technology for Soroca.  
 
2. 
Providing support to the Soroca Apa Canal for the operation and maintenance of 
the wastewater treatment facility. 
 
Part B
:
Knowledge Dissemination/Public Awareness and Replication Strategy
related to Constructed Wetlands
Carrying out public awareness activities at the local, national and regional levels, 
including workshops, field trips, and other mass media events and products, to introduce 
the Project and its benefits, to promote nutrient load reduction and implementation of the 
low cost wastewater treatment practices, and to promote replication of the activities under 
the Project in other countries, including the Black Sea riparian countries. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Providing support to develop a communication strategy and capacity building for 
media campaign and community and civil society outreach to prepare for the 
necessary increase of a sewage treatment surcharge. 
 
2. 
Providing capacity building to the staff of the Soroca Apa Canal for operational 
efficiency improvements of wastewater treatment and overall sewerage system 
management. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management
Supporting the PIU in connection with Project implementation, monitoring, 
evaluation, impact assessment and financial management, including auditing services. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
ACTD responsible for the overall oversight and management of the Project 
The Recipient, through the ACTD, shall oversee the overall Project 
implementation and management with due diligence and efficiency, all in 
accordance with the Operations Manual. 
2. 
Project Implementing Unit responsible for the overall day-to-day management of 
the Project
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a PIU 
within the ACTD, under terms of reference, resources and a composition 
satisfactory to the World Bank for the purpose of carrying out the overall day-to-
day management of the Project, including financial and procurement 
management and other Project-related tasks, all in accordance with the 
Operations Manual. 
3. 
Soroca Apa Canal responsible for the implementation and management of Part A 
of the Project
The Soroca Apa Canal shall be responsible for the implementation and 
management of Part A of the Project, including environmental and progress 
reporting for Part A of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with the Operations Manual. To this effect, the Soroca Apa Canal 
shall appoint sufficient and qualified staff and provide resources to carry out its 
tasks under Part A of the Project. 
4. 
Project Steering Committee
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a 
Project Steering Committee which shall act as a body responsible for the strategic 
coordination and oversight of Project activities, all under terms of reference and a 
composition satisfactory to the World Bank.       
5. Operational 
Manual
The Recipient, through the ACTD, shall: (i) take all necessary measures to 
implement the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and shall not 
Page  9
-
7
-
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Operational 
Manual without prior approval of the World Bank.  
B.
 
Implementation Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Recipient, though the 
ACTD, shall enter into an implementation agreement with the Soroca Apa Canal, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, which shall include 
provisions setting forth that the Soroca Apa Canal shall be responsible for the 
implementation and management of Part A of the Project, all in accordance with 
the Operations Manual
 (“Implementation Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Safeguards 
1. Environmental 
Safeguard
(a)  
The Recipient, through the ACTD, shall ensure that all measures 
necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be 
taken in a timely manner and that all legal and administrative planning and 
environmental permits and authorizations necessary to carry out Part A.1 of the 
Project are secured in a timely manner and with due diligence. The Recipient, 
through ACTD, shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of 
said measures is suitably included in the Project progress reports to be prepared 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule. The Environmental 
Management Plan may be revised from time to time by the Recipient, through the 
ACTD, including after the final design of the wastewater treatment facility has 
been finalized, under terms satisfactory to the World Bank and after prior 
consultation of the World Bank. 
(b)  
The Recipient shall cause the Soroca Apa Canal to take all measures 
necessary and identified under the Environmental Management Plan at all times 
in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of 
said measures is suitably included in the Project progress reports to be prepared 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule. 
2. 
Land Acquired for Part A of the Project
(a)  
For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Recipient 
has ensured that the selected parcel of land necessary for the construction of the 
Page  10
-
8
-
wastewater treatment facility: (i) has been transferred to the Municipality of 
Soroca in accordance with the Recipient’s laws and regulations and under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) is free of all encumbrances, servitudes or other 
property rights or claims by parties other than the Recipient and Soroca, 
including any potential claims for restitution or other rights to use or occupy the 
property; and (iii) is not currently inhabited, occupied or used by third parties nor 
was it at the time of the transfer of property. 
 
(b)  
In the event that the Recipient or Soroca Apa Canal is made aware of a 
restitution or other claim or in the event that the Recipient or Soroca Apa Canal 
discovers that there are settlements, illegal or otherwise, of individuals on the 
selected land, the Recipient shall immediately cease the construction of the 
wastewater treatment facility and any related activity and notify the World Bank 
of the above situation.  
 
(c)  
In the event described under paragraph (b) above, the Recipient shall 
promptly propose measures to address said situation in accordance with 
applicable World Bank safeguard policies, and agree with the World Bank on 
terms and conditions under which the construction of the wastewater facility 
could move forward.  
 
D. Midterm 
Review 
 
1. 
Not later than December 15, 2009, the Recipient, through the ACTD, shall carry 
out jointly with the World Bank, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Mid-term Review). 
 
The Mid-term Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through the ACTD, shall prepare, and at least two (2) months 
prior to the Mid-term Review, furnish to the World Bank, a separate report describing the 
status of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of 
Project implementation generally (the “Mid-term Report”). 
 
3. 
The Recipient, through the ACTD, shall, not later than two (2) months after the 
Mid-term Review, prepare and submit to the World Bank an action program, acceptable 
to the World Bank, for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the 
findings of the Mid-term Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
E. Other 
Undertakings. 
 
1. 
Unless the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall commit the 
following resources for the construction of the wastewater collection system and 
necessary sewerage pressure pipelines under Part A.1 of the Project in an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $1,300,000, throughout the implementation of the Project, in 
accordance with the disbursement projections for each year to be prepared by the PIU, 
after consultation with the World Bank, not later than November 30 of each year 
throughout the implementation of the Project, starting on November 30, 2007. 
 
2. 
(a)  
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall take 
all measures necessary to ensure that the Soroca Apa Canal shall maintain for each Fiscal 
Year, a ratio of cash operating expenses to cash operating revenues not higher than 90%.  
 
(b) 
Within three (3) months of the end of the preceding Fiscal Year, the 
Recipient shall, each year throughout the implementation of the Project, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by Soroca Apa Canal and satisfactory to the World Bank, review 
whether the Soroca Apa Canal would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the World 
Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Soroca Apa Canal would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Soroca Apa Canal’s Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, the Recipient shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of the Soroca Apa Canal’s rates) 
in order for Soroca Apa Canal to meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term “cash operating expenses” means  the sum of all 
expenses related to operations including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt and taxes on profit; and 
(ii) 
the term “cash operating revenues” means the sum of cash 
revenues from all sources. 
3. 
(a)  
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall take 
all measures necessary to ensure that the Soroca Apa Canal shall not incur any debt 
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the Soroca Apa Canal 
shows that the estimated net revenues of the Soroca Apa Canal for each Fiscal Year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 time the estimated debt 
service requirements of the Soroca Apa Canal in such year on all debt of the Soroca Apa 
Canal including the debt to be incurred. 
Page  12
-
10
-
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Soroca Apa 
Canal maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt and  taxes on profit. 
(iv) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(v) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
Soroca Apa Canal not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the World Bank 
and the Recipient accept as reasonable and as to which the 
World Bank has notified the Recipient of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of the Soroca Apa Canal. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Recipient, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the World Bank. 
Page  13
-
11
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report   
 
1. 
The Recipient, through the PIU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the World Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Soroca Apa Canal to have its Financial Statements 
for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the 
Standard Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
Page  14
-
12
-
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3.
 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
(a) The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
 
(b)  
Selection of Individual Consultants
Page  15
-
13
-
D.
 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank
’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
World Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General. 
 
 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table 
in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1)  Goods, works, consultants’ 
services, including audit 
services, and Incremental 
Operating Costs 
 
4,562,000 100 
% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
4,562,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of the table in Part A.2 of Section IV of this Agreement, the 
term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred by 
the PIU on account of Project implementation, including: PIU staff salaries and related 
taxes and social charges (for non-civil servants), office rent and maintenance and 
supplies; fuel and vehicle maintenance, bank charges, PIU staff travel (field trips/per 
diem), bid advertisements, and communications, and any other expenditure to be agreed 
with the World Bank.   
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2011. 
Page  16
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“ACTD” means the Agency for Construction and Territorial Development 
established pursuant to Government Decree No. 864, dated August 1, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 
2004, revised October 1, 2006. 
 
4. 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
the Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project dated June 9, 2003, between the 
World Bank and the Recipient (Credit No. 3763-MD), and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental Management Plan 
describing the environmental mitigation measures anticipated for investments 
under the Project and parties responsible for monitoring of construction and 
operational impacts.  
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” means the period starting on January 1 and ending on December 31. 
 
7. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement dated June 15, 2007 between 
the ACTD and the Sorroca Apa Canal (as defined hereinafter) for the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, under terms satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
 
8. 
 “Operational Manual” means the manual dated May 19, 2007 describing 
procedures for implementation of the Project and including, inter alia: (i) 
procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats of 
interim un-audited financial reports and Project Reports; and (iii) eligibility 
criteria, selection procedures, terms and conditions and procurement 
arrangements for the provision of Sub-projects. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004, revised 
October 1, 2006. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
April 13, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
Page  17
-
15
-
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit 
under the ACTD, established pursuant to Government Decree No. 986, dated 
August 11, 2003, or any legal successor thereto satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
12. 
 “Project Steering Committee” means the committee established by the Recipient 
pursuant to  Government Decree No. 986, dated August 11, 2003  
 
13. 
“Soroca” means the Recipient’s town of Soroca, organized under the Law on 
Administrative and Territorial Organization of the Republic of Moldova No. 764-
XV, dated December 27, 2001. 
 
14. 
“Soroca Apa Canal” means the Soroca water utility, a municipal enterprise, 
established and operating in accordance with the Charter registered under the 
State Chamber of Registration No. 150031565, dated January 1, 2001.  
 
