Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2892  
Project Name 
ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (GEF) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Sanitation (100%) 
Project ID 
P074139 
GEF Focal Area 
Black Sea 
Borrower(s) 
Not Applicable 
Implementing Agency 
Agency for Construction and Territorial Development, Moldova 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 16, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
t.b.d. 
Date of Board Approval 
June 28, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Republic of Moldova is a small, landlocked country situated between the western border of Ukraine 
and the eastern border of Romania.  The 4.3 million population is predominantly rural with 60% of the 
population living in towns and villages of fewer than 10,000 people and approximately 20% living in the 
capital Chisinau. Moldova became independent in 1991 as part of the break-up of the Former Soviet 
Union (FSU) and its per capita GNP of US$ 720 makes it the poorest country in Europe. Independence 
was accompanied by the disruption of trade and budget subsidies, price shocks from liberalization of the 
economy, conflict with Transnistria in 1992 and a series of natural disasters. Since 2000 the economy has 
improved, fueled by remittances from those working abroad and the poverty rate has been halved from 
70% to 35%. However, for those remaining in Moldova job opportunities are still limited.  
 
The Nistru River (also known as the Dniester River), a transboundary river with a length of 1352 km,  
starts in the Ukrainian Carpathians, flows through Moldova and reaches Ukraine again near the Black 
Sea. More than 5 million people populate its basin. In the FSU the water basin was managed as one 
system, but since 1991 Moldova and Ukraine have separately managed their respective parts. The Nistru 
River is the main source of drinking water for Moldova and for a significant part of Ukraine, including 
the City of Odessa. The Nistru is under environmental pressure from municipal and industrial point 
sources and from agricultural non-
point sources. Nistru’s pollution has an international dimension that 
affects Moldova, Ukraine and the Black Sea.   
 
The wastes borne by the Nistru River ultimately discharge into the Black Sea and adversely impact its 
ecology. Moldova is one of 17 countries in the Black Sea basin, which covers about one third of 
continental
 
Europe and houses 162 million people. Once a rich
 
fishing ground and vacation site for 
millions of people,
 
the Black Sea ecosystem has been overwhelmed
 
by
excess levels of nutrients from 
agricultural runoff and
 
industrial and municipal wastewater discharges.
 
Major areas of the Black Sea have 
become eutrophied
 
due to the nutrient loads and the widespread loss of wetland habitat that served as a 
filter.  
 
Page  2
The Government of Moldova strongly supports the GEF Environmental Infrastructure Project to fulfill its 
obligations under several international agreements to protect transboundary water courses from pollution.  
First, an agreement, signed with Ukraine in 1995, calls on the signatories to cooperate in joint use and 
protection of transboundary water courses and transnational lakes.  This agreement followed the spirit and 
intent of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International 
Lakes adopted in Helsinki in March 1992 and made effective in October 1996.  Second, the Government 
of Moldova signed a 
Joint Memorandum of Understanding,
 dated April 1997, on cooperation with 
Ukraine for development of a transnational water quality management plan for the Nistru River Basin.  
Third, Moldova is a member of the Danube River Commission, an unofficial member of the Black Sea 
Commission and a party to many Black Sea/Danube cooperation agreements. Moldova and Ukraine have 
been working on a cooperative project under the auspices of the Organization for Cooperation and 
Security in Europe (OSCE) and the UN Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE).  
 
The quality and reliability of Moldova’s water supply and wastewater services are generally deficient.  
The existing wastewater facilities have insufficient capacity and have deteriorated after decades of little 
maintenance. It is estimated that only four out of the 100 existing wastewater treatment plants are meeting 
effluent standards. The quality of drinking water delivered to consumers is generally poor and service is 
intermittent. Approximately 80% of urban residents are connected to centralized water supply networks 
and 63% to sewerage. The coverage in small and medium-sized towns for water supply is about 60% and 
for sewerage about 35%.   
 
The central authority responsible for the development and promotion of state policy for water supply 
utilities is the Agency for Construction and Territorial Development (ACTD). The Ministry of Ecology 
and Natural Resources (MENR) is responsible for environment and natural resources.  The Ministry of 
Health monitors water quality through its Public Health Bureaus.  The Ministry of Agriculture deals with 
agricultural non-point source pollution and with the design of rural water schemes that are locally 
operated. In small and medium sized cities water and wastewater systems are operated by the semi-
autonomous Apacanals, which are responsible to their respective local governments and are represented at 
the national level by the Moldova Apacanal Association (MAC).  Other stakeholders are represented 
through the more than 100 national environmental NGOs that are officially registered in Moldova.  
ACTD was designated as the agency responsible for setting and implementing policy for water and 
sanitation services for both urban and rural areas under Decree No. 1406 dated December 30, 2005, which 
constitutes the Plan for Water Supply and Sewerage in Localities of the Republic of Moldova up to 2015.  
 
In 1997 the European Bank of Reconstruction Development (EBRD) approved a loan of USD 22.75 
million to replace sections of the Chisinau water network, and later the 
Danish Ministry of Environment and 
Energy
 (DANCEE) approved a loan to finance water supply systems in three rural villages. In 2003 the 
World Bank approved a US$ 12 m IDA credit for the Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project targeting 
the cities of Balti, Cahul, Orhei, Soroca and Stefan Voda. With the exception of these three projects 
Moldova has not received any significant investment financing and now runs the risk of not meeting its 
targets under the Millennium Development Goals. Wastewater investments are lagging even further 
behind because the emphasis has been to first rehabilitate existing water supply systems to make 
production and consumption more efficient. 
The key sector issues comprise weak apacanals that cannot collect sufficient revenue to pay for adequate 
operations and maintenance let alone for investment; excessively politicized tariff setting; and a lack of 
proper regulation. The Government is cognizant of the sector flaws. In order to update its sector 
development strategy the Government organized a strategy workshop on October 26, 2006 that gathered 
all national stakeholders and many international agencies. The Workshop adopted a resolution that, 
among other matters, appealed to all external financial agencies to assign high priority to the water and 
wastewater sector given the fact that so little was invested over the last decade: 
Page  3
The Trans-boundary Diagnostic Analysis carried out on the basis of a pollution source inventory for the 
Black Sea Environmental Program reveals that Moldova accounts for about 2% of the total nutrient load 
into the Black Sea. A
griculture accounts for the bulk of Moldova’s emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus, 
and municipal wastes are second in importance. The EU Nitrate Directive notes that investments 
dedicated to urban wastewater treatment will have a limited impact on reducing nutrients if agricultural 
nutrient loads are not reduced.
 
The reduction of agricultural-source nutrients is the global environmental 
objective of the ongoing GEF-funded Moldova Agricultural Pollution Control Project ($4.95m, 2004). 
Now Moldova wishes to complement those efforts by focusing on reducing nutrient loads from urban 
areas. The proposed project would pioneer the effort to reduce municipal N and P emissions.  The project 
impact is expected to be multiplied through the replication of its appropriate, low-cost wastewater 
treatment technology.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The overall objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) reduce the discharge of pollutants, including 
nutrients, from Soroca municipal sources that flow into the Nistru River and, subsequently, into the Black 
Sea; and (ii) demonstrate and disseminate through workshops cost-effective nutrient reduction strategies 
and technologies from municipal sources for the potential benefit of similar project for Moldova’s 
existing wastewater treatment plants, for those towns in Moldova that have no wastewater treatment 
whatsoever, and for the countries that drain into the Black Sea.  
 
Key indicators
:
·
The reduction of biological and nutrient wastes discharged from Soroca; and 
·
The dissemination through workshops of the experience from the appropriate technology 
pioneered through the Soroca project;  
 
Monitoring and performance indicators will include:  
 
·
the volume of wastewater effectively treated before and after the project completion (m3/year); 
·
the reduction of pollutants (including suspended solids, BOD and P and N nutrients), calculated 
as the difference between the pollutants discharged before and after the project (tons/year); and 
·
the number of proposed replications of the low-cost wastewater treatment technology in 
feasibility studies planned for Moldova and its neighboring countries. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has identified poverty reduction, economic growth and 
public sector reform as Moldova’s key challenges.  The CAS assigns priority to the protection of the 
country’s ecology and rich biodiversity from mismanagement of land resources, land-based pollution and 
impacts of the tourism industry. The proposed project would target pollution from the town of Soroca that 
contributes to the environmental degradation of a stretch of the Nistru River running 550 km downstream 
of Soroca before entering the Black Sea. The project is consistent with the CAS for Moldova and the 
country’s National Water Action Plan. The project also complements the Bank’s GEF project for 
Agricultural Pollution Control (US$4.95m, 2004), the objective of which is to reduce agricultural 
discharges of nutrients into local water bodies and ultimately into the Black Sea.   
 
The Bank’s support through sector work and the Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PWSSP) is 
assisting the improvement and reform of Moldova’s water and sanitation sector. The Bank’s active 
Page  4
involvement aims at reversing water quality deterioration, and the decline of public health and 
environmental quality. The proposed GEF project 
would leverage the Bank’s ongoing initiatives by (i) 
expanding and strengthening the physical and sector objectives of the PWSSP; (ii) improving the 
probability of obtaining donor commitments; and (iii) assisting Moldova in addressing transboundary 
environmental problems with Ukraine and the regional pollution of the Black Sea. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project consists of the following components:  
 
Component 1
.
Wastewater management in the Soroca municipality (US$5.63 million).  
 
This component would finance: (i) the rehabilitation of wastewater collection system and the construction 
of wastewater treatment facility using constructed wetlands technology for the municipality of Soroca; 
and (ii) six month operations of the facility in order to train the apacanal staff in the proper operations and 
maintenance of the facility. 
 
Component 2
.
Dissemination and Replication Component US$0.10 million): 
 
This component targets the dissemination of experience and knowledge obtained from operation of the 
new Soroca WWTP. This is considered of particular importance due to the pioneering character of this 
GEF project, which could prove exemplary to many other WWTPs in Moldova and in Ukraine. To this 
end, the new operation building at the WWTP will include facilities suited for seminars and workshops. 
The annual water monitoring workshops would expand in scope and participation with the growing data 
base and with the progress of treatment of the Soroca wastewater. The first annual workshop in year 3 
would likely mainly have Moldovan participation; the second annual workshop in year 4 might have 
Moldovan and Ukrainan participation, and possibly wider international participation in coordination with 
the Istanbul commission.  
 
Component 3.  
Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.20 million),
 
This component would finance: (i) the development of a communication strategy and capacity building 
for media campaign and community and civil- society outreach to prepare for the necessary increase of a 
sewage treatment surcharge; and (ii) apacanal staff training for operational efficiency improvements; 
 
Component 4. 
Consultants and PIU Operation Cost
 
(US$1.71 million) 
 
This component would support (i) Engineering services for WWTP and sewer network design, 
procurement, and supervision support; (ii) Feasibility studies for 10 towns and pre-feasibility studies for 
an additional 5 towns; and (iii) management and implementation of the project by PIU in the ACTD. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3.08 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
4.56 
 Total 
7.64 
 
Page  5
6. Implementation 
 
The project would be implemented during FY2008-2011 under the overall responsibility of the Agency 
for Construction and Territorial Development (ACTD).  The project implementation unit (PIU) funded 
under the Pilot Project would also implement the GEF project. The PIU is legally registered and reports to 
the Ministry.  The PIU consists of a Project Head, Procurement Officer, WSS and Civil Engineer,  GEF 
Coordinator, Financial Manager, Accountant and a translator. In addition a Steering Committee based 
within ACTD would assist to provide policy guidance regarding project implementation. The PIU, in 
coordination with the Soroca apacanal, would be responsible for all aspects of financial management and 
disbursement.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the GEF project is closely linked to the operational effectiveness of the PWSSP 
which has among its objectives (i) targeting funding to least-cost investments that reduce energy and 
other operating costs; (ii) promoting financial viability of the Apacanals by improving efficiency and 
increasing revenues to cover operating and maintenance costs; (iii) training operational staff; and (iv) 
informing consumers on the importance of paying for services.  
 
The GEF project will train the staff from Soroca Apacanal to reduce operating costs and undertake 
preventive maintenance of the planned WWTP. The Soroca WWTP will be the first municipal WWTP 
with nutrient removal capacity in the Moldova Nistru River Basin. The Soroca municipality and the 
Apacanal plan to organize a conference on wastewater management for regional information transfer at 
the Soroca WWTP site.  With these activities, the project will support the establishment of partnerships 
between cities and towns of the region and will also provide a model to enable implementation of 
successful processes.  
 
The financial contribution and effort from the Moldovan side is considerable against the background of 
the count
ry’s 2004 per capita GNP of USD 720, making it the poorest country in Europe. The central 
Government has agreed to budget USD 1.36 million for the project, apart from the IDA contribution of 
USD 0.95 million that is repayable. At the local level, the Soroca municipal authorities and the apacanal 
have agreed to charge a surcharge to pay for the incremental costs of operating the wastewater treatment 
plant. This surcharge is estimated at USD 0.10 per cubic meter of wastewater and will be collected by the 
Soroca apacanal. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The lessons learned from similar projects that have been incorporated in the project design include:  
·
Creating client ownership at all levels of Government by preparing the project in close 
collaboration and implementation with the local stakeholders.  Total commitment by the 
Ministry, apacanals and Municipal Governments is necessary to ensure that preparation and 
implementation proceed smoothly;     
·
Setting realistic and prudent efficiency improvement targets, including a basis for sound 
financial projections.  Under the PWSSP a Financial Action Plan was agreed upon, with a 
specific collection increase program that will be updated and monitored bi-annually. This will 
be extended to the GEF project; 
·
Selecting a treatment technology that will be appropriate for the staff competence of the 
Soroca apacanal and that will keep the necessary sewage treatment surcharge within the limits 
Page  6
of affordability and willingness-to-pay of the Soroca population who needs to pay for the costs 
of operations and maintenance to ensure sustainability; 
·
Establishing a sound institutional framework to ensure that the project is sustainable.  A clear 
definition of project responsibilities and processes was established under the Pilot Project and 
will also be followed under the GEF project; and 
·
Implementing effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to measure project impacts and 
disseminate and scale up the lessons learnt into subsequent projects.
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [X] 
[ 
] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Commercial/financial
Credit Repayment Analysis
:
Water Utility of Soroca.
Moldova Local Government Reform Project. 
BDO Conti Audit and Urban Institute. December 2004. 
Social Assessment 
Social Assessment: 
……….
Safeguards: Environmental Assessment
Support for the Implantation of Environmental Policies and NEAPS in the NIS 
–
Task 10d:Moldova. 
A
Framework for Water Quality Standards in Rivers and Point-Source Discharges, January 2003.
European Commission Project SCRE/111232/C/SV/WW. 
 
Other Technical Documents
Technical and Financial Proposal for Application for GEF Financing (Soroca)
.
2005. 
Technical and Financial Feasibility Study for Soroca by ACTD 2006
.
Review of the Technical and Financial Feasibility Study for Soroca by ARA Consult 2006
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on any 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
11. Contact point 
Contact: Takao Ikegami 
Title: Sr Sanitary Engineer 
Tel: (202) 473-2334 
Fax: (202) 614-0902 
Email: tikegami@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
P:\BOSNIA\INFRA\WATER-QUALITY-GEF\2LENA\Project Information Document - Appraisal Stage.doc
 
