Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/21/2007 
Report No.:  AC2774
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Moldova 
Project ID:  P074139 
Project Name:  ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT 
Task Team Leader:  Takao Ikegami 
GEF Focal Area: International waters 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 26, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2007 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Sewerage (100%) 
Theme:  Pollution management and environmental health (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
4.56 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
5.34
5.34 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) reduce the discharge of 
pollutants, including nutrients, from Soroca municipal sources that flow into the Nistru 
River and, subsequently, into the Black Sea; and (ii) demonstrate and disseminate 
through feasibility studies and workshops cost-effective nutrient reduction strategies and 
technologies for municipal wastewater sources for the potential benefit of similar project 
for Moldova's existing wastewater treatment plants, for those towns in Moldova that have 
no wastewater treatment, and for the countries that drain into the Black Sea.  
 
The key indicators are:  
 
1.  The reduction of biological and nutrient wastes discharged from Soroca; and  
 
2.
The dissemination through feasibility studies and workshops of the experience from 
the appropriate technology pioneered through the Soroca project;  
 
Monitoring and performance indicators will include:  
 
1.  the volume of wastewater effectively treated before and after the project completion 
(m3/year);  
Page  2
2.  the reduction of pollutants (including suspended solids, BOD and P and N nutrients), 
calculated as the difference between the pollutants discharged before and after the project 
(tons/year); and  
 
3.
the number of proposed replications of the low-cost wastewater treatment technology 
in feasibility studies planned for Moldova and its neighboring countries.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project consists of the following components:  
 
Component 1.  Water supply and wastewater management in the Soroca municipality 
(US$7.89 million). This component would finance: (i) the rehabilitation of water supply 
and wastewater collection system and the construction of wastewater treatment facility 
using constructed wetlands technology for the municipality of Soroca; and (ii) six month 
operations of the constructed wetland facility (CW) in order to train the Apa Canal staff 
in the proper operations and maintenance of the facility. The CW is a system in which the 
wastewater, after primary mechanical treatment, filters through a vegetated constructed 
soil layer where it is cleaned by a wide range of microorganisms at levels allowable to be 
discharged directly into the river. The proposed area required for constructing such CW 
in Soroca is about 5.5 ha including the additional area for mechanical pre-treatment, 
access road, and operational building.  
 
Component 2.  Dissemination and Replication Component (US$0.10 million).  This 
component targets the dissemination of experience and knowledge obtained from 
operation of the new Soroca WWTP. This is considered of particular importance due to 
the pioneering character of this GEF project, which could prove exemplary to many other 
WWTPs in Moldova and in Ukraine. To this end, the new operation building at the 
WWTP will include facilities suited for seminars and workshops. The annual water 
monitoring workshops would expand in scope and participation with the growing data 
base and with the progress of treatment of the Soroca wastewater. The first annual 
workshop in year 3 would likely mainly have Moldovan participation; the second annual 
workshop in year 4 might have Moldovan and Ukrainan participation, and possibly wider 
international participation in coordination with the Istanbul Commission.  
 
Component 3.  Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.20 million). This 
component would finance: (i) the development of a communication strategy and capacity 
building for media campaign and community and civil- society outreach to prepare for 
the necessary increase of a sewage treatment surcharge; and (ii) Apa Canal staff training 
for operational efficiency improvements;  
 
Component 4. Consultants and PIU Operation Cost (US$1.71 million). This component 
would support (i) Engineering services for WWTP and sewer network design, 
procurement, and supervision support; (ii) Feasibility studies for 10 towns and pre-
feasibility studies for an additional 5 towns; and (iii) management and implementation of 
the project by PIU in the ACTD.   
 
Page  3
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The town of Soroca is located on the border with Ukraine on the Nistru River, about 400 
km from its inflow into the Black Sea. The Nistru River is a source of the water intake for 
the town.  The wastewater from Soroca sewage was once treated at upriver ponds before 
being discharged into the Nistru River.  Some time ago this approach was discontinued 
and sewage was piped across the river for treatment down river in Ukraine.  This second 
approach has also been discontinued, and the raw and untreated sewage is discharged 
currently directly into the Nistru River.  The project would rehabilitate the pumps and 
sewage lines and build a receiving station, and constructed wetlands at the site of the 
former treatment ponds.  The elimination of the raw sewage discharge would improve the 
quality of water in the Nistru (which is used as a water source for numerous communities 
in both Moldova and Ukraine), thus resulting in positive impact on the river front of 
Soroca, and especially benefit a downstream recreation area.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Lucian Bucur Pop (ECSSD) 
Ms Ruxandra Maria Floroiu (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The proposed project is classified as environmental assessment category B in accordance 
with the Bank's Operation Policies. The infrastructure investments financed under the 
project are triggering the World Bank Safeguard Policies related to Environmental 
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The 
environmental impact of the project is mostly expected during the construction stage of 
the proposed investments including rehabilitation of sewerage network and constructed 
wetland facility. In order to deal with the potential adverse impacts related to these 
investments, the Government of Moldova has prepared an Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) with affiliated Environmental Management Plan (EMP).  
 
Page  4
The EIA for the project specified that there were no impacts that would not be covered 
by the mitigation and monitoring plans and found no large scale, significant and/or 
irreversible impacts. Furthermore, the EIA concludes that there would be no impacts on 
the immediately surrounding natural habitats, and downstream natural habitants would 
benefit from eliminating discharges of untreated wastewater to the adjacent waterway.  
 
Although the project location is near by the Nistru River, an international waterway, the 
specific infrastructure investments proposed under the project are only for rehabilitation 
and improvements of existing sewage lines and wastewater treatment system in the town 
of Soroca, which is not expected to change the quality or quantity of water in this 
waterway. Consequently, the project falls within the exception set forth in paragraph 7 (a) 
of OP7.50 as: (a) it will not adversely affect the quality or quantity of water flows to the 
other riparians; and (b) it will not be adversely affected by other riparians' water use. 
Therefore, given the rehabilitation nature of the activities under the project, it has been 
decided that no notification to other riparian states is required under the Bank policy.  
 
Accordingly, an exemption from notification has been prepared for and approved by the 
office of the ECA Vice President on March 2, 2007.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The potential environmental and social implications of the physical investments to be 
supported under the project are described in the EIA and EMP. The investments 
supported are intended to improve priority urban infrastructure in Soroca municipality 
that will reduce sewage and wastewater pollution of the Nistru River. The project 
complements the current GEF agricultural pollution control project to aim at reduction of 
nutrient pollution of the river that flows into the Black Sea. No significant indirect or 
long-term environmental impacts are expected.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The Agency for Construction and Territorial Development (ACTD) carried out a 
feasibility study of three alternatives: Activated Sludge (AS), Extended Aeration (EA) 
and Sequencing Batch Reactor (SBR). Out of the three options SBR is too sophisticated 
and involves too many risks for failure under the specific environment in Soroca. The 
other two options studied, AS or EA, are feasible but will pose operational challenges for 
the Apa Canal staff whose skill level is limited. More serious, the level of operations and 
maintenance costs of either treatment method is about US$ 300,000 annually which 
would require a sewage treatment surcharge of MDL 11 per cubic meter of wastewater, 
or about US$ 0.85 per m3. This surcharge would be around 125% of the average water 
tariff at present and about 170% of the domestic water tariff. The surcharge is so high 
that it is unlikely that the population would be willing to pay it which in turn would make 
the financial and operational sustainability moot.  
 
Under the circumstances, the Apa Canal and the ACTD have opted for low cost 
appropriate technologies to reduce BOD, SS and nutrient loads. The most suitable 
alternative was found to be "constructed wetlands" that are non-mechanized, robust and 
Page  5
within the capacity of the Apa Canal staff to operate, conditional on additional training 
being provided.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As part of project preparation, the Government has prepared an EIA to address potential 
environment and cultural property issues affiliated with the infrastructure investments. 
The ACTD has taken a lead role in the contracting and supervision of the preparation of 
the EIA. This document meets the current Moldovan legislation and the World Bank's 
operation policies on EA. The PIU that will implement the project has established 
experience with safeguard issues as a result of its work on previous Bank project (the 
Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project). The PIU has taken action to clarify issues and 
established liaison with the other government stakeholders. The project will also support 
capacity building to PIU and the Soroca municipality for further strengthening their 
environmental capacity to supervise affiliated investments, including provision of 
equipment (monitoring, office furniture) and training especially for the constructed 
wetland operation and maintenance activities.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Agency for Construction and Territorial Development, the Ministry of Environment 
and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Agriculture are the 
four major Government stakeholders.  The local municipal administration, the Apa Canal, 
and the NGOs serving as surrogate water user associations constitute the primary local 
stakeholders.  Consultation with the Government Stakeholders took place throughout 
project preparation.  Social surveys, focus groups, and disclosure of documentation took 
place in conjunction with the preparation of the EIA. Customer feedback will be elicited 
throughout the project by the Customer Service Offices of the Apa Canal.  
 
The EIA public consultation meeting held in the premises of Mayor Office in Soroca on 
June 6, 2006 discussed the overall project goal and the four possible treatment options 
applicable to Soroca WWTP. About 25 people attended the meeting representing NGOs, 
local environmental agencies, academia and local authorities attended this meeting but no 
major concerns were raised. Participants expressed their support for the proposed project 
investments and assured of their constant participation during the project implementation. 
The revised EIA report including the final treatment option has been publicly disclosed at 
the PIU office in Chisinau (in Romanian) and announced locally in the "Monitorul 
Oficial al Republicii Moldova" on February 23, 2007. Furthermore, a brief public 
information session in Soroca was held on March 15, 2007 to inform citizens and NGOs 
about the selected constructed wetland solution. The revised EIA has been disclosed in 
Washington, DC Infoshop on March 21, 2007. The final EMP will be revised once the 
detail design for the proposed constructed wetland facility is available.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Page  6
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/20/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/23/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/21/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
No 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
Yes 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Takao Ikegami 
02/16/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Ruxandra Maria Floroiu 
03/09/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Lucian Bucur Pop 
03/12/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Bernard Baratz 
 
Mr Philip W. Moeller 
 
02/12/2007 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Sumter Lee Travers 
03/15/2007 
Comments:   
