                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2175



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-58310)



                                      ON A

               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.562 MILLION


                                       TO

                                   MOLDOVA

                                     FOR AN

               ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                                  June 25, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2011)
                Currency Unit = Moldova Lei
                   MDL 1.00 = US$ 0.085
                   US$ 1.00 = MDL 11.8

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACTD     Agency for Construction and Territorial Development
AS       Activated Sludge
BOD      Biological Oxygen Demand
BSAP     Black Sea Convention
CFAA     Country Financial Management Accountability Assessment
CSO      Customer Service Office
CW       Constructed Wetlands
DANCEE   Danish Cooperation for Environment in Eastern Europe
DO       Development Objectives
EAP      Environmental Assessment Program
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FSU      Former Soviet Union
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environmental Objective
GNP      Gross National Product
ICPDR    International Commission for Protection of the Danube River
IDA      International Development Association
IFR      Interim Un-audited Financial Report
IP       Implementation Progress
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MAC      Moldova Apa Canal Association
MDL      Moldova Lei
MoE      Ministry of Environment
MSIF     Moldova Social Investment Fund
MENR     Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MOAG     Ministry of Agriculture
MOH      Ministry of Health
N        Nitrogen
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
OECD     Organization of Economic Co-Operation and Development
OP       Operational Policy
OSCE     Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
P       Phosphorus
PIU     Project Implementing Unit
PSP     Private Sector Participation
PWSSP   Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
SBR     Sequencing Batch Reactor
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
STAP    Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
UNECE   United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
VAT     Value Added Tax
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant




              Vice President:   Phillipe Le Houerou
            Country Director:   Qimiao Fan
             Sector Manager:    Sumila Gulyani
        Project Team Leader:    Maria Angelica Sotomayor Araujo
           ICR Team Leader:     Sanyu Lutalo
                                  COUNTRY: MOLDOVA
                      Project Name: Environmental Infrastructure Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 2
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 3
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 4
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 4
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 5
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 5
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 6
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 7
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 8
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 9
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 11
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 12
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 13
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 14
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 15
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
Country:                    Moldova            Project Name:                 INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                             PROJECT
Project ID:                 P074139            L/C/TF Number(s):             TF-58310
ICR Date:                   05/25/2012         ICR Type:                     Core ICR
Lending Instrument:         SIL                Borrower:
Original Total
                            USD 4.56M          Disbursed Amount:             USD 0.77M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:             Not Applicable
                                               Global Focal Area: I
Environmental Category: B

Implementing Agencies: Agency for Construction and Territorial Development (ACTD) at
approval; later transferred to Apele Moldovei, and then to the Ministry of Environment (MoE)

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                         Revised / Actual
        Process                Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:            12/11/2003       Effectiveness:            09/28/2007            10/30/2007
Appraisal:                 03/21/2007       Restructuring(s):                                   N/A
Approval:                  05/29/2007       Mid-term Review:          12/15/2009         Not conducted1
                                            Closing:                  12/15/2011          12/30/20102

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                     Non evaluable3
Bank Performance:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory




1
    A full mid-term review was not conducted due to the overall lack of implementation progress.

2
 The revised actual Closing date here reflects the date the project was cancelled and not an official closing
date.

3
    The risk is non evaluable since there was no measurable Global Environmental Outcome.
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
                            Moderately                                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                          Unsatisfactory                                            Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately     Implementing                              Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory   Agency/Agencies:                         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                Moderately     Overall Borrower                          Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory   Performance:                             Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 Satisfactory4
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                              Yes                                             NA5
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                              Highly Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         4                      4
Sewerage                                                                 96                   96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                                  25                   25
Pollution management and environmental health                            50                   50
Water resource management                                                25                   25

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:               Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:             Qimiao Fan                           Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:               Sumila Gulyani                       Sumter Lee Travers



4
    QAE was rated Satisfactory during the formal IEG assessment.

5
 A Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio was conducted for the project for the period ending
December 2009.
Project Team Leader:        Maria Angelica Sotomayor Araujo Takao Ikegami
ICR Team Leader:            Maria Angelica Sotomayor Araujo
ICR Primary Author:         Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The key development objectives of the project are: (i) improve the quality of sanitation
services in Soroca; (ii) reduce the discharge of pollutants, including nutrients, from
Soroca municipal sources that flow into the Nistru River and, subsequently, into the
Black Sea; and (iii) demonstrate and disseminate through feasibility studies and
workshops, cost-effective and affordable technologies for municipal wastewater
treatment for the potential benefit of similar projects for Moldova's existing wastewater
treatment plants, for those towns in Moldova that have no wastewater treatment, and for
the countries that drain into the Black Sea.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Not applicable.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target          Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Amount of wastewater treated in Soroca (%)
Value
                                           Target was not
(quantitative or   0                                         N/A              0
                                           identified in PAD
Qualitative)
Date achieved    05/29/2007                  12/15/2011                       12/30/2010
Comments         The envisaged investments were not implemented. As a result, no wastewater is
(incl. %         treated in Soroca (0% achievement) by the time project was cancelled
achievement)     (12/30/2010).
                 Potential replication of successful Soroca outcome, through incorporation of the
                 technology in feasibility studies and possible implementation of such treatment
Indicator 2 :
                 schemes, subject to affordable financing to Moldova, Ukraine and other
                 neighbouring countries.
                                             Successful project
Value                                        outcomes
(quantitative or No replication.             replicated in       N/A          Not achieved.
Qualitative)                                 neighboring
                                             countries.
Date achieved 05/29/2007                     12/15/2011                       12/30/2010
Comments
                 Since the investments were not implemented in Soroca, this result was not
(incl. %
                 achieved and the outcome was unsuccessful (0% achievement).
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Disbursed amount of the constructed wetland construction contract.
                                                                            There were no
                                                                            disbursements on
Value                                                                       the constructed
(quantitative or 0                        100               N/A             wetland
Qualitative)                                                                construction
                                                                            contract (0%
                                                                            achievement).
Date achieved 05/29/2007                  12/15/2011                        12/30/2010
Comments
                 There wetlands were not constructed, however, the designs were prepared under
(incl. %
                 a separate contract.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                           IP                  Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)6
    1    02/07/2008           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        0.00
    2    12/12/2008          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                       0.74
    3    11/18/2009          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                       0.84
                              Moderately
    4    03/30/2010                                  Moderately Satisfactory                    0.86
                             Unsatisfactory
    5    01/30/2011       Highly Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                        1.09


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




6
  The amount indicated in this column as disbursements was automatically generated by SAP. It appears to
have been based on commitments and not actual disbursements. There is therefore a discrepancy between
the final amount provided in this column and the disbursement amount (US0.77 million) presented in
Client Connection and the Portal, and corroborated by actual data from the contracts.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: Moldova is a relatively small country in Eastern Europe, with a
population of about 4.3 million people. It is one of the seventeen countries of the Black
Sea basin. The country is mostly rural, about 60 percent of the population was living in
towns and villages of fewer than 10,000 people and 20 percent in the capital, Chisinau, at
the time the project was appraised. Like many other Former Soviet Union (FSU) nations,
Moldova initially underwent a series of economic and social challenges during its
transition to a market economy following independence in 1991. However, the economy
registered a period of steady growth between 2000 and 2008, largely fueled by worker
remittances from overseas. During this period the poverty rate halved from 70 to 35
percent. Nonetheless, with a per capita GNP of US$ 720, Moldova was still the poorest
country in Europe when the project was appraised in early 2007.

Sector Background: The Nistru River, which flows through Ukraine and Moldova to the
Black Sea, is the main source of drinking water for Moldova and part of Ukraine. The
Nistru faced environmental pressure from municipal and industrial point source pollution,
as well as from agricultural non-point pollution when the project was identified. Heavy
nutrient loads and loss of wetlands from these sources contributed to severe
eutrophication of the Black Sea, once a rich regional fishing ground and tourism
destination. A Trans-boundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) carried out earlier had
estimated that Moldova accounted for about 2 percent of the Black Sea‟s nutrient load.

Key sector issues: Moldova inherited most of its water and sanitation infrastructure from
the FSU. The quality and reliability of water and sanitation services had however
deteriorated seriously due to ageing and under-maintained infrastructure. While about 80
percent of urban residents had access to centralized water supply and 63 percent to
sewerage service, coverage in small and medium sized towns was much lower, at about
60 and 35 percent, respectively. Wastewater infrastructure in many areas had insufficient
capacity and did not meet effluent standards. Of about 100 Wastewater Treatment Plants
(WWTPs) in Moldova at the time, only four were able to meet required discharge
standards. The sector also faced institutional and regulatory challenges that affected its
operations and service delivery. Many Apa Canals, the local institutions responsible for
provision of water and wastewater services, were weak and financially unviable. Most
were unable to collect sufficient revenues to pay for adequate operations and maintenance,
much less capital investments. Moreover, tariff setting was highly politicized and the
sector lacked proper regulation.

Project area: The Municipality of Soroca, the project‟s primary target area, is a town of
about 30,000 people, located on the west bank of the Nistru River, across the border with
Ukraine. Soroca was one of five cities, including Orhei, Balti, Cahul, and Stefan Voda,
that were benefitting from an ongoing Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(PWSSP) approved by the Bank in 2003 to support the improvement and reform of



                                            1
Moldova‟s water and sanitation sector. The Bank‟s active involvement in the sector
aimed at reversing water quality deterioration, the threat to public health, and
environmental deterioration.

The Soroca Apa Canal, owned by the Soroca Municipality, was responsible for its water
supply and wastewater services. Like other areas in Moldova, the relatively high
statistics for access to these services in comparison with many counties of similar income
was in sharp contrast to the quality of delivery, with wastewater lagging far behind water
supply. About 98 percent of the population had access to water supply and 63 percent
were connected to the sewerage network. Soroca‟s sewer system was about 40 years old
and had received little or no maintenance for many years. Several sections of its sewer
system were near collapse. Prior to independence Soroca‟s wastewater had been treated
at a WWTP located across the river on the Ukrainian side, and it was transferred to the
Plant through an underwater pipeline which eventually failed. Construction of a new
pipeline commenced but was never completed due to high costs, technical risks
associated with the underwater crossing, and political uncertainties. Attempts to identify
an affordable solution after access to that plant ceased were unsuccessful and Soroca‟s
waste water was discharged untreated into the river.

Pollution from Soroca‟s waste discharge contributed to environmental degradation of a
stretch of the trans-boundary Nistru River running 550 km downstream of the town
before entering the Black Sea. There were several towns and cities, including the city of
Odessa in Ukraine with a population of about a million people, which depended on the
River for their water supply, and this upstream pollution was of serious concern to them.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was aligned with the Bank‟s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Moldova, which assigned priority to the protection of the
country‟s ecology and rich biodiversity from mismanagement of land resources, land
based pollution, and impacts of the tourism industry. It was expected to leverage the
Bank‟s on-going initiatives under the PWSSP by: (a) expanding and strengthening the
physical and sector objectives of the PWSSP; (b) improving the probability of obtaining
additional donor commitments; and (c) assisting Moldova in addressing the trans-
boundary environmental problems with Ukraine and the Black Sea. The higher level
objectives of the project were (a) to reduce the nutrient load of the Nistru River by
reducing organic pollution from the Soroca municipal sewer system, and (b) improving
the water quality of the Black Sea. It was therefore included under the Black Sea Danube
Investment Fund for Nutrient Reduction, a Strategic Partnership between the World Bank
and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to reduce nutrient pollution in the Black Sea.

The project objectives complied with GEF eligibility criteria and its Operational Strategy
for International Waters, as well as for the Water Body Based Operational Programme-8
(OP-8) through: (i) the focus on addressing specific impairments of the water body, such
as reducing eutrophication or toxic substances on inland waters; and (ii) support for the
learning process for countries to work cooperatively and collectively in addressing
imminent threats to their trans-boundary water resources. The project also complemented
an on-going Bank-GEF project for Agricultural Pollution Control, also part of the above-



                                            2
mentioned Investment Fund, which aimed at reducing agricultural discharges of nutrients
into local water bodies and ultimately into the Black Sea. It was envisioned to be a pilot
that could be replicated in other parts of Moldova.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

The key development objectives of the project were:

a)     to improve the quality of sanitation services in Soroca;
b)     to reduce the discharge of pollutants, including nutrients, from Soroca municipal
       sources that flow into the Nistru River and subsequently into the Black Sea; and
c)     to demonstrate and disseminate through feasibility studies and workshops, cost-
       effective and affordable technologies for municipal wastewater treatment for the
       potential benefit of similar projects for Moldova's existing WWTPs, for those
       towns in Moldova that have no wastewater treatment, and for the countries that
       drain into the Black Sea.

The key indicators to measure achievement of the development objectives were:
 The reduction of biological and nutrient wastes discharged from Soroca; and
 The number of events for dissemination and replication of CW technology pioneered
   in Soroca.

Monitoring and performance indicators for the project were also to include:
 the volume of wastewater effectively treated before and after the project completion
  (m3/year);
 the reduction of pollutants (including suspended solids, BOD, and P and N nutrients),
  calculated as the difference between the pollutants discharged before and after the
  project (tons/year); and
 the number of proposed replications of the low-cost wastewater treatment technology
  in feasibility studies planned for Moldova and its neighboring countries.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The GEO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the population of Soroca, which was
expected to benefit directly in terms of improved quality of sanitation services, and
indirectly from impacts of a less polluted Nistru River, such as reduced negative health
impacts, aesthetic, and environmental benefits. Likewise, several downstream
communities along the Nistru River, including Rezina, Ribnitsa, Dubasari, Criuleni,
Grigoriopol, Tighina, Vadul-lui-Voda, Tiraspol, Slobozia, Dnestrovsk, Olonesti, and
Odessa, with a combined population of 1.4 million, many of which depend on the Nistru
river for their own water supplies, were expected to benefit from the improved water


                                            3
quality protection of the river as a result of the reduced discharge of pollutants and
nutrients from Soroca. Benefits in this regard entail, inter-alia, reduced operational costs
for treating their drinking water and avoidance of potential negative health impacts.

1.5 Original Components

The project had four main components:

Component 1-A: Wastewater Management in Soroca (US$7.89 million – 79.7% of
project cost). This component was to finance: (i) the rehabilitation of the wastewater
collection system, necessary sewerage pressure pipelines and the construction of a
wastewater treatment facility using constructed wetlands technology for the municipality
of Soroca; and (ii) six months‟ operations of the facility in order to train the Apa Canal
staff in the proper operations and maintenance of the facility. These activities were
intended to support achievement of the first development objective of improving the
quality of sanitation services in Soroca.

Component 1-B: Engineering Consultant and TA (US$1.48 million – 14% of project
cost). This component was to support: (i) engineering services for WWTP and sewer
network design, procurement, supervision support, and six months‟ operational assistance
for the WWTP; and (ii) feasibility studies for 10 towns and pre-feasibility studies for an
additional 5 towns, including replication of constructed wetland system in the studies.

Component 2: Dissemination and Replication Component related to Constructed
Wetlands (US$0.10 million – 1% of project cost). This component was to target the
dissemination of experience and knowledge obtained from operation of the new Soroca
WWTP. This was considered of particular importance due to the pioneering nature of this
GEF project, which could prove exemplary to many other WWTPs in Moldova and in
Ukraine. To this end, the new operation building at the WWTP was to include facilities
suited for seminars and workshops. The annual water monitoring workshops were
expected to expand in scope and participation with the growing data base and with the
progress of treatment of the Soroca wastewater. It was expected that the first annual
workshop in year 3 would mainly have Moldovan participation; while the second annual
workshop in year 4 would have Moldovan and Ukrainian participation, and possibly
wider international participation in coordination with the Istanbul Commission.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.15 million – 1.5% of
project cost). This component was to finance: (i) the development of a communication
strategy and capacity building for media campaign and community and civil- society
outreach to prepare for the necessary increase of a sewage treatment surcharge; and (ii)
Apa Canal staff training for operational efficiency improvements.

Component 4: Project Management (US$0.28 million – 2.8% of project cost). This
component was to support management and implementation of the project, including
auditing services, by the PIU in the ACTD.




                                             4
1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The main changes to the project during implementation related to two main aspects: (a)
interruption of the implementation schedule due to the premature grant cancellation; and
(b) changes in the implementation arrangements due to changes in implementing
agencies.

a) Changes to the Implementation Schedule: The project was approved on May 29, 2007
with an original closing date of December 15, 2011. It became effective on October 30,
2007. The project‟s overall implementation schedule was reduced by almost twelve
months due to cancellation of the GEF grant on December 30, 2010. The outstanding
balance under the grant in the amount of US$3,791,063.66 (about 83%) was subsequently
reimbursed to the Bank in accordance with relevant Bank procedures. The grant
cancellation was primarily due to the lack of implementation progress, especially with
respect to construction of the constructed wetland WWTP in Soroca. Factors that
contributed to that situation are discussed below in more detail under Section 2 – Key
factors affecting implementation and outcomes.

b) Changes in Implementation Agency: The Project Implementing Unit (PIU), which was
the same PIU managing the PWSSP, was under the overall responsibility of the Agency
for Territorial Development (AFTD) under the Ministry of Construction and Territorial
Development at the time of project approval. In December 2007 however, the Bank was
informed that the PIU had been transferred to Apele Moldovei, AFTD‟s lawful successor
for matters related to water supply and wastewater policy, and a state agency under the
Law on Government. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, which later
became the Ministry of Environment, took over the project from Apele Moldovei in 2009.
Although Apele Moldovei was transferred to the Ministry of Environment after changes
in the Government structure, the Ministry of Environment was legally responsible for the
project, with the PWSSP and project PIU reporting directly to the Minister. This change
necessitated changes in some of the key personnel responsible for the project.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Assessment of Project Design: The project design was sound in principle, and the
appraisal process duly considered relevant technical, economic, financial, and
environmental aspects. The development objectives were strategically relevant to the
country and regional priorities of finding cost-effective ways of treating wastewater, and
reducing nutrient pollution in the Black Sea, respectively. As noted in the official QAG
QAE assessment, areas of strength during preparation related to design and



                                            5
implementation aspects including, the choice of technology and the inclusion of a
replication strategy from the outset, as well as the use of the PIU from the previous water
sector project instead of creating a new one. Several important lessons from earlier
operations were taken into account, including the importance of selecting a treatment
technology that would be both within the limits of affordability and willingness to pay by
the local Soroca community, as well as technically appropriate for Soroca Apa Canal to
operate in a sustainable manner.

The choice of technology for wastewater treatment using constructed wetlands (CW) was
based on a Least Cost Analysis, considering three other technically feasible design
options: (a) Activated Sludge, (b) Extended Aeration, and (c) a Sequencing Batch
Reactor. According to the PAD, the proposed CW technology, which was the least cost
investment, though a relatively new 7 technology, had been proven elsewhere to be
favorable for small cities and communities where sufficient land was available. It
seemed ideal since at the time it was indicated that ten hectares of land was available for
a WWTP in Egoreni Commune, about four kilometers from Soroca, which would have
been sufficient to accommodate the wetlands. Moreover, according to the economic and
financial analysis the CW technology was more economical to operate mainly due to the
considerably lower associated energy costs, hence would be more affordable to users than
the conventional treatment options. According to the analysis, with an Activated Sludge
system Soroca Apa canal would have had to raise its domestic water tariff by an
estimated 170 percent. This was an important consideration for Soroca which had a
significant poor population, including a significant Roma community. Social analysis
under the project focused more on the affordability aspects, but did not adequately
address issues of acceptability of the new low-cost technology in the Moldovan context.

The CW technology was new to Moldova which had been accustomed to conventional
highly inefficient wastewater treatment plants from the former Soviet legacy. Several
stakeholders had strong reservations on its suitability, and there was a general perception
of the technology as being inferior to other technologies. This perception persisted
throughout the project‟s life, and was repeatedly brought up by various stakeholders at
local and central government levels. An interesting consideration concerning this issue in
the Moldovan context is the contrast with a similar project in the city of Orhei, involving
a similar CW technology for WWTP, financed through a European Union (EU) grant
executed by the World Bank. Surprisingly, the Orhei project has not experienced the
opposition that the Soroca one did, and it is being implemented with support from
stakeholders at all levels. Reasons for the differences between the two cases remain
unclear.

A formal Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2) was also conducted by IEG
for the project for the review period ending December 2009. Interestingly, that
assessment rated the quality of project design as moderately unsatisfactory. The main



7
    According to the PAD, the technology had been developed during the past two decades.




                                                     6
reasons given for the unsatisfactory rating were linked to weaknesses in the monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) arrangements and in analysis of the financial and economic
aspects.

 Adequacy of Government‟s Commitment: According to the PAD, one lesson drawn
from earlier operations was the importance of creating client ownership at all levels of
Government by preparing the project in close collaboration with local stakeholders, and
ensuring total commitment by the Ministry, Apa Canals, and Municipal Governments.
Central government, represented by the Agency for Construction and Territorial
Development (ACTD)‟s commitment during project preparation appears to have been
adequate as demonstrated by its overall collaboration with the Bank throughout the
preparation phase to complete required procedures. ACTD took a lead in project
preparation and both the Agency and the Soroca Apa Canal were consulted on the project
and involved in the decision-making process concerning the choice of treatment
technology. Public consultations involving the Egoreni commune residents were also
conducted by the Bank‟s Environmental and Social Specialists. One key factor relating
to government commitment was the lack of a strong local champion for the project.

Assessment of Risks: While the team identified in the PAD several important risks to
implementation and measures to mitigate them, several critical risks that ultimately
impeded project implementation were not addressed. First, the risk of stakeholders
opposition to the location of the proposed CW in their territory was not identified.
Secondly, the risk of objections to the choice of technology was not highlighted as an
issue, yet it had been the subject of much contention and discussion during preparation.
Although some consultations on the project were conducted in the context of the EIA
public consultation process, the importance of these issues seems to have been under-
estimated. Finally, risks relating to the land transfer and registration process not being
concluded were not highlighted. It however appears the issue was somewhat anticipated
hence the team‟s decision to make provision of satisfactory evidence of completion of the
process a condition of effectiveness and later of disbursement.

As a condition for negotiations the Government confirmed that the Commune of Egoreni
local council took a decision on March 30, 2007 to unconditionally transfer a selected
land of 10 hectares for the construction of the WWTP for the town of Soroca. The
Government specifically agreed during negotiations to provide the Bank with (i) a copy
of cadastral documentation that registers the said land to the ownership of Soroca by May
22, 2007; and (ii) a copy of the resolution of the council of the town of Soroca
transferring the property of the 10 hectares to the Soroca Apa Canal so that the enterprise
could construct the facility on the said land. Although satisfactory evidence was in fact
provided, disputes and opposition to use of the land for the project reemerged during
implementation.




                                            7
2.2 Implementation

A number of issues, several of which were not entirely new, emerged during
implementation and contributed to the project‟s ultimate outcome. The main issues are
outlined below:

Implementation delays due to lack of consensus on the choice of technology: Objections
to the choice of the CW technology, from various stakeholders, including the Center for
Preventive Medicine (CFPM), the Building Permit Authority, Apele Moldovei, and the
Ministry of Construction, led to substantial implementation delays. Key concerns related
to the technology‟s operational efficiency and capacity to meet locally required norms
and standards for wastewater discharges, environmental issues such as sludge
management and mosquito proliferation, and potential impacts on the River Nistru. A
substantial amount of time was spent by the Bank team and stakeholders discussing the
merits of the technology vis-a-vis the conventional wastewater treatment alternatives
considered for Soroca. The Bank organized two demonstration study tours to successfully
operating CW wastewater treatment plants in Italy and France. The first study tour, to
Italy, was financed through an ECA Innovation grant in June 2009. It was however not
attended by any representatives from the Government, apparently due to failure to obtain
visas in a timely manner. The second study tour, held in March 2010, was financed from
the GEF grant, and was attended by a high level delegation comprising the Minister of
Environment and representatives of the Ministry of Environment, CFPM, Mayors of
Soroca and Orhei Municipalities and management of Apa Canals, academia, and the PIU,
accompanied by the Bank‟s Operations Officer based in Chisinau. No representatives of
Egoreni village participated in either study tour. The latter study tour appears to have
convinced the participants of the merits of the technology, and a formal report was
submitted by the participants to the Prime Minister‟s office, in support of the CW
technology. After several targeted follow up meetings and workshops involving the Bank
and Moldovan stakeholders to discuss the issue, the Government officially wrote to the
Bank on December 11, 2009 confirming its support to continuing the project.

Stakeholder objections to proposed site: There was strong opposition from the local
Egoreni commune mayor, to location of the CW for Soroca municipality in his village,
citing apparent concerns with its impacts on the area‟s tourism potential. The land was
supposed to have been transferred to Soroca municipality as a condition of negotiations
for the grant. As mentioned above, that transfer of the land ownership from Egoreni
Commune to Soroca Municipality was based on a Local Council decision issued by the
Egoreni Commune on March 30, 2007. According to the land cadastre, 15 ha of the land
had been designated earlier for construction of a WWTP. The Mayor of Egoreni signed
the Decision of Egoreni local council on the land transfer. It was however brought to the
attention of the Bank team during preparation of the CW design that construction could
not proceed because there were apparent irregularities with the land registration and
titling process. This raised questions on the credibility of the evidence provided by
Government concerning the legal status of the land as a condition of effectiveness.




                                           8
The Bank raised the issue with the Government and sent a notice threatening suspension
of disbursements on July 5, 2010 with a deadline of July 31, 2010, informing them that
the project would not proceed unless: (a) Egoreni village agreed to construction of the
CW; (b) the legal status of land ownership and land titling for the land plot assigned for
the CW plant was clarified; and (c) a formal agreement was concluded between the town
of Soroca and Egoreni village committing both parties to future unimpeded
implementation of the project. The Government responded to the Bank on July 31, 2010
stating that Egoreni village authorities had maintained their unfavorable position on the
matter, and requested additional time to try to resolve the issue with the local authorities.
The Bank provided thirty more days, which unfortunately didn‟t yield a positive response,
leading to the decision to suspend disbursements and subsequently to cancel the project.

Land Acquisition issues: Issues relating to the land ownership and transfer process have
been discussed above. Despite all efforts to resolve the land transfer issues in a
satisfactory manner, as already described, the Egoreni Commune continued to oppose use
of the land for the CW construction.

Changes in Implementing Agency: Transfer of the PIU from ACTD to Apele Moldovei
and later to the Ministry of Environment, with associated changes in skills and levels of
commitment to the project, affected implementation. Some of the new key personnel
responsible for the project were opposed to the project, which affected the level of
commitment and support to the project as a whole.

Political Issues: Changes in the local political landscape after elections that occurred
during the course of project implementation, and subsequent differences in political
priorities and motivations of key stakeholders, led to a lack of adequate commitment to
and/or support for the project by these stakeholders, which had an impact on the project.
The issue of opposition to the technology choice, which had appeared to have been
resolved by appraisal, was resurrected after the project was transferred to Apele
Moldovei, and after changes in key personnel from different political parties from the
mayor following elections, which could suggest some political motives. According to
available documentation, Apele Moldovei sent a letter to Government requesting it to
finance instead a conventional WWTP based on the so called Checz technology, which
was being installed in parts of Moldova by a particular company. Its request was to either
use the proposed alternative or combine it with the CW for tertiary level treatment or
polishing of the wastewater. It is unclear whether cost-efficiency considerations were
assessed for this method. The ICR has not addressed the merits of the proposed
technology and there is no evidence whether it was seriously considered as an option.
The new head of Apele Moldovei stopped implementation of the design contract in
August 2008 with no apparent consideration for contractual breach. Implementation of
this contract was only resumed in January 2010 after the Government officially informed
the Bank that it was interested in proceeding with the project in December 2009.

Disbursement Suspension and Cancellation: Implementation of the project ultimately
ceased following suspension of disbursements and ultimately cancellation of the project
about a year before the closing date, with the project having failed to make any



                                             9
meaningful investments apart from the CW designs. It was therefore unable to achieve
any of the intended outcomes.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The M&E process under the project was designed before the Bank
introduced the more rigorous approach to results monitoring. Nonetheless, the results
framework was weak and both the QAG QAE and QALP-2 cited this problem. While
baseline values were identified for instance for the indicator concerning the amount of
wastewater treated, no clear targets were identified. In addition, no indicators were
included to measure certain aspects of the PDO for instance on improving the quality of
sanitation services in Soroca. M&E of project results and outcomes during
implementation was to be carried out in conjunction with that for the Pilot Water Supply
and Sanitation Project, which had a proven capacity for producing timely data. The PIU
was to collect and present data, results, and reports for review by the Bank team during
supervision missions. On the Bank side, the project was to be closely monitored through
the supervision missions to be carried out at least biannually.

M&E Implementation: Since the project did not support any significant investments
M&E during implementation was very limited and the team‟s focus was mainly on trying
to resolve the issues affecting implementation progress. None of the project results
indicators were achieved since no investments were implemented.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered Bank Safeguards Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
and Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50).

Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The project was rated an Environmental Category
B according to OP 4.01 guidance, and project design took into account and included
procedures and implementation arrangements to ensure full consideration of
environmental safeguards in accordance with the OP. Envisaged project impacts and
mitigation measures to avert negative ones were addressed and public consultations were
duly conducted as part of the EIA process. They targeted the local administration in
Soroca, public health and environmental inspectors, water consumers living in the
municipality, representatives of ethnic communities including Roma communities in the
area, NGOs, and local business operators. Issues discussed focused on general aspects of
the project including its design and implementation, expected impacts, and risks. Issues
concerning the location of the CW and the choice of technology were also discussed as
part of the EA. It was therefore surprising that these issues were later brought up by some
key stakeholders, including the Egoreni village authorities and some central government
agencies.

Due diligence on the issue of land ownership was conducted during appraisal, and
resolution of land ownership issues was a condition of grant effectiveness. While



                                            10
documents confirming resolution of the issue were submitted to confirm the
government‟s compliance with the conditions of effectiveness, apparent politically
motivated disputes concerning the land use for the WWTP                 emerged during
implementation leading to local opposition to the project, ultimately contributing to the
cancellation of the project.

Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50): The project was assessed as falling
within the exception to the notification requirement under this policy which applies for
any ongoing schemes, projects involving additions or alterations that require
rehabilitation, construction or other changes that in the judgment of the Bank (i) would
not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (ii)
would not be adversely affected by other riparians possible water use. In this case an
exemption was granted because it was deemed that in reducing the discharge of untreated
sewage to the Nistru River the project would have a positive impact on the quality and
quantity of water in the river and the Black Sea.

Procurement: The PIU, overseen by ACTD and later by Apele Modovei and the Ministry
of Environment, was responsible for procurement under the project. There was only one
contract procured under the project, the contract for detailed design of the wastewater
investments. Procurement arrangements were carried out in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines as outlined in the Grant Agreement, and reviewed periodically as
part of Bank supervision. Apart from the obvious lack of adherence with the Procurement
Plan due to the implementation issues the project was facing, procurement procedures
under the project, where implemented, were otherwise satisfactory.

Financial Management: The PIU was responsible for the Financial Management (FM)
function under the project. FM arrangements under the Project were reviewed
periodically as part of Bank supervisions and found to be satisfactory. After the grant was
cancelled, a waiver was granted for the FY2010 audited Entity financial statements since
no investments were carried out and no goods procured and transmitted to Soroca Apa
Canal. Otherwise, there were no major FM issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

This section is not applicable since all the key investments envisaged under the project
were not implemented.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the PDOs as defined in the PAD was high. The PDOs, as discussed
above, were in line with Moldova‟s development priorities at identification and appraisal.
At the time of preparing this ICR, the priorities remain relevant and the PDOs remain in
line with one of the pillars of Moldova‟s Joint World Bank-IFC Country Partnership
Strategy for the 2009-2012 period, which focuses, inter alia, on minimizing social and



                                            11
environmental risks. Environmental degradation, including through surface water
pollution from runoff and lack of sustainable waste management, is recognized in the
CPS as a significant challenge facing the country. The PDO concerning improving the
quality of sanitation services in Soroca is also indirectly in line with the Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) of ensuring environmental sustainability by improving access
to sanitation facilities. Finally, it would contribute to the regional priority of reducing
pollution of the Black Sea.

The project complied with the GEF eligibility criteria and its Operational Strategy for
International Waters, as well as for the water body based Operational Programme-8 (OP-
8) through its focus on addressing impairments of the water body, such as reducing
eutrophication or toxic substances on inland waters; and its support for the learning
process for countries to work cooperatively and collectively in addressing imminent
threats to their trans-boundary water resources.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

(a) GEO 1 - Improving the quality of sanitation services in Soroca.

The project did not achieve the intended GEO since critical investments in wastewater
collection and treatment in Soroca, including rehabilitation of the wastewater collection
system and construction of the WWTP, which were supposed to contribute to its
achievement were not realized.

(b)   GEO 2 - Reducing the discharge of pollutants, including nutrients from Soroca
municipal sources that flow into the Nistru River, and subsequently into the Black Sea.

The project did not achieve the second GEO either because the WWTP which was
designed to reduce the discharge of pollutants, including nutrients from Soroca municipal
sources into the Nistru River was not constructed.

(c)    GEO 3 - Demonstrating and Disseminating through feasibility studies and
workshops, cost-effective and affordable technologies for municipal wastewater
treatment for the potential benefit of similar projects for Moldova‟s existing wastewater
treatment plants, for those towns that do not have wastewater treatment and for other
countries that drain into the Black Sea.

The project was not able to achieve this GEO since it is primarily linked with
achievement of the first two GEOs, which were not achieved due to failure to
successfully implement investments under Component A.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was highly inefficient since it did not achieve the project objectives and there
were no benefits. The ICR has therefore made no attempt to carry out an economic
analysis of the project.


                                            12
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

Although the project was relevant at appraisal and remains relevant in terms of national
priorities for reducing environmental risks and regional priorities for reducing pollution
of the Black Sea, its outcome is rated „highly unsatisfactory‟ given its failure to achieve
all of its intended GEOs, and its subsequently high inefficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had no significant poverty impacts since planned investments were not
implemented. There is no evidence that it considered any gender aspects in design or
implementation, and there is no evidence of any social development impacts.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project‟s third component (Institutional Strengthening) was designed to focus on two
main issues: (i) developing a communication strategy and capacity building for a media
campaign and community and civil society outreach to prepare for the expected increase
of a sewage treatment surcharge; and (ii) Apa Canal staff training for operational
efficiency improvements. Both of these activities did not take place prior to project
cancellation, hence there were no associated intended outcomes.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted for the project.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Non evaluable

The risk to development outcome for this project is non evaluable given the fact that most
key activities under the project were not implemented, and there was no discernible
positive development outcome.




                                            13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Bank inputs and processes during preparation were adequate. The Bank preparation team
consisted of fourteen staff who included a Sanitary and an Environmental engineer, a
Social Development specialist, and several fiduciary specialists (Procurement and
Financial Management). Preparation was conducted over a period of three years and five
months between Project Concept Note review and Board approval. The team conducted
technical, economic, and financial background analysis for project design in a
satisfactory manner, leading to the recommended design alternative combining
wastewater investments with institutional strengthening activities. The borrower‟s
fiduciary capacity was adequately assessed, and a decision was made to implement the
project through the existing PIU responsible for the PWSSP, which had adequate skills
and experience.

Although the official QAG assessment rated Quality at Entry for the project as
Satisfactory, the ICR in retrospect rates it Moderately Unsatisfactory because while
certain aspects of project design were addressed in a satisfactory manner, there were
significant shortcomings during identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
that contributed to its undesirable outcome.

The formal quality at entry assessment for the project was undertaken in November 2007,
before the project begun to register any major problems. The ICR agrees with that
assessment for instance in rating strategic relevance and approach, technical, financial
and economic aspects, Moderately Satisfactory, while other quality dimensions were
rated Satisfactory. The ICR however considers in retrospect that the risk assessment
failed to identify and address risks to implementation due to the opposition to the choice
of technology and issues of political support. These risks materialized during
implementation and contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome of the project. The QAG
assessment acknowledged key areas of strength as well as areas of the project design
needing improvement. Areas of strength identified at the time mainly related to design
and implementation aspects including, the choice of technology and the inclusion of a
replication strategy from the outset, as well as the use of the PIU from the previous water
sector project instead of creating a new one. Areas identified as needing improvement
included the project‟s financial and economic analysis, the project‟s strategy for long-
term sustainability, and the results framework.

Although Safeguards assessments, including the Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
were conducted in accordance with relevant Bank procedures, it appears that the
significance of the unresolved land acquisition issues concerning transfer and registration


                                            14
of the land for the CW in Egoreni and its potential impact on the project were
underestimated. The Social Analysis also failed to adequately focus on issues such as
local acceptability of the technology, and focused mainly on issues of affordability and
willingness to pay for the water and wastewater services in Soroca. The Communications
Strategy should have been implemented in parallel with the technical design preparation
and the broader stakeholder consultations at Soroca and Egoreni.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The quality of project supervision carried out by the Bank is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory in light of shortcomings in the supervision which outweighed the
strengths in affecting the project‟s outcome. Teams were adequately staffed. Given the
nature of the operation, the skill mix usually included at least one Sanitary engineer and a
Financial Specialist or Economist, joined by a field-based Bank Operations Officer who
provided close continuous coordination and liaison with the client, and a Safeguards
Specialist. Project supervision reports were generally well written and highlighted the key
issues. Over the course of implementation the project had two Task Team leaders as a
result of the normal reassignment process within the Bank, and continuity in project
supervision was ensured through a joint handover mission and regular dialogue and
consultation. Although the quality of supervision was satisfactory in terms of supervision
of safeguards and fiduciary aspects, and in candor and quality of performance reporting,
there were shortcomings, in particular in failing to implement timely proactivity measures
to address the serious implementation issues the project faced.

Key issues impeding progress were identified as early as mid 2008 after a supervision
mission during which it was found that the design contract for the CW had been
terminated by the Director of Apele Moldovei. The PDO and implementation progress
ratings were downgraded to Unsatisfactory in the next ISR dated December 12, 2008.
The Bank considered cancellation of the grant due to the implementation impasse caused
by the continued opposition to construction of the CW. A decision was however made to
defer the proposed action until the next supervision mission with the expectation that the
new government which at the time was expected to be in place after national elections
scheduled for the following February (2009), would be able to resolve the issues.
Unfortunately, the new administration only took office in September 2009, much longer
than planned, and even when in place it was unable to resolve the issues. Throughout this
period the team made efforts to try to address the problems the project was facing with
Moldovan officials, through continuous dialogue, workshops, and two study tours
organized to try to convince stakeholders of the merits of the proposed technology. The
approach concentrated on insistence on the already agreed technology since there was no
flexibility under the GEF grant to introduce another technology. In retrospect, the project
could have been suspended at the point it was first suggested to management and not
after three years of implementation as eventually happened.


                                            15
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The rating for overall Bank performance is based on combined assessment of the
Moderately Unsatisfactory quality at entry and Moderately Unsatisfactory quality of
supervision, and the unsatisfactory project outcome.


5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for government performance has been based on assessment of the performance
of not just the central government, but also local government administrations involved in
the project. Government performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on the basis of
its role during project preparation and implementation. Its performance during
preparation is assessed as having been moderately satisfactory, but during
implementation it is assessed as having been moderately unsatisfactory on balance.

Government‟s performance during project preparation was moderately satisfactory,
considering that the project was the first operation of its kind in Moldova. The
Government was supportive to the project overall and there was close coordination and
dialogue between relevant central and local government officials and the Bank. It could
however have pushed harder to ensure timely resolution of the land transfer and
registration issues for the constructed wetlands from Egoreni Commune to Soroca
Municipality prior to effectiveness.

During implementation, the Government‟s performance is assessed as having been
unsatisfactory due to shortcomings in conducting their oversight role that either affected
implementation or failed to adequately respond to the critical implementation issues that
impeded progress and eventually led to its cancellation. The Government made several
changes in the project implementing arrangements during the course of implementation.
Changes in some government representatives‟ roles subsequently affected the pace of
implementation progress. For instance, the new Minister of Ecology and Natural
Resources raised concerns with the choice of wastewater treatment technology when he
was appointed in mid 2008, contributing to further delays. Moreover, following elections
in mid 2009, there were changes in the ruling party, in addition to the individual
government personnel in the project‟s line of responsibility. Some of the individuals
affected by the changes were allegedly politically motivated to oppose the project by
discouraging support for it at the village level. Through the continued dialogue with the
Bank team to reach a consensus and agree on a feasible way forward, a common position
was eventually reached at the Government level concerning this issue leading to the
temporary resumption of project implementation. Ultimately however, the project was
cancelled due to failure of the Borrower to effectively resolve the land usage issues in
Egoreni.


                                           16
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

PIU: The PIU carried out its roles during project preparation and implementation in a
moderately satisfactory manner, despite issues that were sometimes beyond its control.
Routine fiduciary and project management tasks for instance remained rated in the
satisfactory range even when the project was facing major problems. The PIU however,
could have been more proactive in facilitating consultations with stakeholders at the local
or central government levels to resolve issues affecting implementation. There were
however major issues at the level of the agencies overseeing the PIU, which affected
overall implementation progress.

Other Implementing Agencies: During the course of implementation the PIU was
transferred from ACTD to Apele Moldovei and later to the Ministry of Ecology and
Natural Resources, changes that affected overall implementation. When responsibility for
implementing the project was transferred to Apele Moldovei, the project did not receive
adequate support from the Agency mainly due to the General Director‟s reservations with
the project design. The Agency was subsequently not supportive of measures to try to
move the project forward. It was for instance reluctant to participate in the first study
tour organized by the Bank to demonstrate successful use of similar technologies
elsewhere, or to support the implementation of a communications strategy to explain the
recommended technology to the public. At one point the PIU Director was dismissed8
and a new one was hired by Apele Moldovei without prior consultation with the Bank in
breach of the terms of the Grant Agreement and the Project Operational Manual.

In the summer of 2008 the project stalled when the General Director of Apele Moldovei
terminated the contract for design of the CW, allegedly pending further guidance from
Government on the potential for implementation of a conventional WWTP in Soroca.
This action caused project implementation to stall. Apele Moldovei subsequently failed to
provide an Action Plan requested by the Bank, outlining the Government‟s plans for
either restarting implementation or cancelling the project. After renewed efforts including
continued dialogue, workshops targeting key stakeholders, and the second study tour in
March 2010 to demonstrate the merits of CW, the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources submitted an Action Plan to proceed with implementation to the Bank in
December 2009.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Overall Borrower performance takes into consideration the performance of both the


8
 The reasons for this dismissal were linked to the PWSSP, which was managed by the same PIU.
Nonetheless this situation affected the project.



                                                 17
Government and the Implementing Agencies‟, including the PIU and its oversight
agencies, during project preparation and implementation, combined with the highly
unsatisfactory project outcome. On the basis of the justification provided above,
Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

     Risks related to the political economy of projects should be identified and realistically
      addressed during project preparation. Project preparation often focuses on
      conventional aspects such as technical design, economic and financial considerations,
      and safeguards issues, but does not adequately identify or confront the potential
      effects of the existing political economy on projects. Changes in the local political
      landscape and subsequently in key personnel following the national and local
      elections resulted in changing political priorities and motivations of key stakeholders.
      This contributed to the renewed opposition to the proposed technical design that
      ultimately led to the implementation impasse that ultimately led to the project‟s
      cancellation. The successful experience from the on-going Wastewater Project in
      Orhei9, another city in Moldova, based on a similar design approach and technology
      (CW), illustrates the fact that political support and commitment are critical to the
      success of a project. All stakeholders in Orhei were supportive of the project, and it
      appears that politics did not play a major factor in influencing motivations for or
      against the project. On the other hand, in the Soroca case, politics played a major role
      in influencing the final position, and although the project eventually had the support
      of central government and local government at the municipal level, strong opposition
      to construction of the new CW plant from the local commune mayor, apparently
      supported by some individuals from the opposition, led to the project‟s failure.

     The Bank should be proactive in making the decision to either withdraw from a
      project or adopt other alternative measures to change a project‟s course when it is
      recognized that critical implementation issues cannot be resolved in a timely manner.
      Despite the obvious lack of progress with respect to implementation of the
      wastewater management component, flagged to management by the team as early as
      January 2008 with a recommendation to consider cancelling the grant, a decision was
      made to defer the proposed action. At the time it was hoped that the new government
      - which incidentally was not yet in place and took much longer to elect than earlier
      envisaged - would be able to make requisite changes. The problems dragged on even
      after the new government was elected, and disbursements were only suspended in
      October 2010 after three years of implementation.




9
    The Orhei project is being financed through an EU grant supervised by the Bank .




                                                     18
   Willingness to adopt new appropriate low-cost technologies can take time even where
    technical and economic analysis is provided if they are perceived to be inferior. The
    proposed CW technology was new to Moldova, which had been used to the
    overdesigned former Soviet conventional WWTPs. The proposed technology was
    perceived as inferior and therefore unacceptable. Moreover, the Bank may face a
    reputational risk in appearing to be promoting and/or „overselling‟ specific activities
    or technologies with strong resistance from critical stakeholders even where the
    activities may be technically and economically justified. In this case several clients
    referred to the proposed technology as “the Bank‟s? technology which increases the
    Bank‟s reputational risk.

   The importance of preparing a sound Results Framework comprising adequate
    indicators to capture key project outcomes, with baseline data and reasonable targets
    or a clear plan to obtain this data as soon as possible after the onset of implementation
    if not available, cannot be over-emphasized for good project design and
    implementation readiness.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers

There were no external co-financiers for the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
        Components               Estimate (USD         Estimate (USD
                                                                         Appraisal
                                    millions)             millions)

Component 1-A - Physical
                                           4.965             0                 0
Investment
Component 1-B - Engineering
                                           0.100             0.076             76
Consultant and TA
Component 2 – Dissemination
                                           0.100             0                 0
and Replication of CW
Component 3 – Institutional
                                           0.100
Strengthening
Component 4 – Project
                                           0.280
Management
          Total Baseline Cost               5.545
Physical Contingencies                     0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00
           Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility
                                           0.00            N/A
(PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00            N/A
   Total Financing Required                5.545           0.076



(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal Actual/Late
                                     Type of    Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing     (USD       (USD     of Appraisal
                                                millions)   millions)
                                  Counterpart
Borrower                          Funds/In    2.13        0           0
                                  kind
 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT -
                                  Credit            3.21         0         0
Associated IDA Fund
 Global Environment Facility
                                  Grant             4.56         0.77      16.9
(GEF)




                                            20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1-A: Wastewater Management in Soroca (US$7.89 million). This
component was to finance: (i) the rehabilitation of the wastewater collection system,
necessary sewerage pressure pipelines and the construction of a wastewater treatment
facility using constructed wetlands technology for the municipality of Soroca; and (ii) six
months‟ operations of the facility in order to train the Apa Canal staff in the proper
operations and maintenance of the facility.

None of the planned investments were implemented.

Component 1-B: Engineering Consultant and TA (US$1.48 million). This component
was to support: (i) Engineering services for WWTP and sewer network design,
procurement, supervision support, and six months‟ operational assistance for the WWTP;
and (ii) Feasibility studies for 10 towns and pre-feasibility studies for an additional 5
towns, including replication of constructed wetland system in the studies.

The engineering consulting work for the WWTP, i.e., the constructed wetland and the
sewer network was done. However supervision support and the six months operational
assistance tasks under the same contract were not undertaken since investments were not
implemented.

The feasibility studies for the 10 towns and pre-feasibility studies for the additional 5
towns were not prepared.

Component 2: Dissemination and Replication Component related to Constructed
Wetlands (US$0.10 million). This component was to target the dissemination of
experience and knowledge obtained from operation of the new Soroca WWTP. This was
considered of particular importance due to the pioneering character of this GEF project,
which could prove exemplary to many other WWTPs in Moldova and in Ukraine. To this
end, the new operation building at the WWTP was to include facilities suited for
seminars and workshops. The annual water monitoring workshops were expected to
expand in scope and participation with the growing data base and with the progress of
treatment of the Soroca wastewater. It was expected that the first annual workshop in
year 3 would mainly have Moldovan participation; while the second annual workshop in
year 4 would have Moldovan and Ukrainian participation, and possibly wider
international participation in coordination with the Istanbul Commission.

This activity was not implemented.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.15 million). This
component was to finance: (i) the development of a communication strategy and capacity
building for media campaign and community and civil- society outreach to prepare for




                                            21
the necessary increase of a sewage treatment surcharge; and (ii) Apa Canal staff training
for operational efficiency improvements.

This activity was not implemented.

Component 4: Project Management (US$0.28 million). This component was to
support management and implementation of the project, including auditing services, by
PIU in the ACTD.

Audit services amounting to about USD 90,000 were financed under this component.




                                           22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis has not been conducted at ICR stage given that none
of the project benefits were achieved.




                                          23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
         Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Takao Ikegami                   Sr. Sanitary Engineer        ECSSD     Task Team
                                                                         Leader
Seema Manghee                Sr. Infrastructure Specialist   ECSSD     Task Team
                                                                         Leader
Klas Ringskog                        Consultant              ECSSD
Sandu Ghidirim                     Project Officer           ECSSD    Operations
                                                                       Specialist
Delphine Hamilton              Sr. Program Assistant         ECSSD Program Assistant
Ruxandra Floroiu              Environmental Engineer         ECSSD    Safeguards
                                                                       Specialist
Lucian Bucur Pop              Sr. Social Development         ECSSD
                                                                    Social Specialist
                                     Specialist
Philip Moeller                       Consultant              ECSSD Social Specialist
Gucharan Singh               Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSPS   Procurement
                                                                       Specialist
Dara Goldstein                      Sr. Counsel              LEGEC
Irina Babich                Financial Management Spec.       ECSPS
Hannah Koilpillai               Sr. Finance Officer          LOAG1 Loan Officer
Arcadie Capcelea                     Consultant              ECSSD
Arben Bakllamaja                     Consultant              ECSSD Financial Analyst


Supervision/ICR
Maria Angelica Sotomayor                                               Task Team
                                  Senior Economist           ECSS6
Araujo                                                                   Leader
                                                                       Technical
Konrad Buchauer                      Consultant              EASIN
                                                                       Specialist
Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist ECSS3
                                                                       Procurement
Kashmira Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
                                                                        Specialist
Oxana Druta                Financial Management Analyst ECSO3
                                                                      Environmental
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu     Senior Environmental Engineer ECSS3         Safeguards
                                                                        Specialist
Sandu Ghidirim                   Operations Officer          ECSS2
Takao Ikegami                   Sr Sanitary Engineer         EASIN     Task Team


                                          24
                                                                   Leader
Alexei Ionascu                Operations Analyst      ECSS5
Galina S. Kuznetsova   Sr Financial Management Specia ECSO3
                                                              Financial Analyst
Kishore Nadkarni                Consultant          ECSS2
                                                              Social Safeguards
Lucian Bucur Pop             Senior Economist       HDNSP
                                                                  Specialist
Klas B. Ringskog                Consultant         TWIWA
                                                                Procurement
Gurcharan Singh         Senior Procurement Specialist TWICT
                                                                 Specialist
Sanyu Lutalo                    ICR Author          ECSS6




                                    25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
    Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                             66.73
  FY03                                                             95.47
  FY04                                                             84.52
  FY05                                                            146.57
  FY06                                                             42.98
  FY07                                                            102.69
  FY08                                                              0.84

                          Total:                                  539.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                              0.00
  FY03                                                              0.00
  FY04                                                              0.00
  FY05                                                              0.00
  FY06                                                              0.00
  FY07                                                              0.00
  FY08                                                             65.58

                          Total:                                   65.58




                                       26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                     28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Translation of official letter from the Borrower’s representative)

Republic of Moldova
Ministry of the Environment

No.06-07/736 of 07.05.2012

Ref.: letter dated 29.03.2012

Attn.: World Bank

Hereby, the Ministry would like to thank you for the support you provided to the
Republic of Moldova to improve the water supply and sanitation conditions in the
country.

Having perused the draft Report on the Completion of the Implementation of the
Environment Infrastructure Project funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), in
particular the chapter on the building of a ZUC-type water treatment station in the town
of Soroca, we would like to let you know the following.

The blueprint for the water treatment plant in the town of Soroca was meant to be a state-
of-the-art technology project with a potentially beneficial impact on improving the
environment in general and on bettering the living conditions of the people residing in the
town of Soroca and the village of Egoreni.

Despite the positive feedback and endorsement by the relevant central public authorities
of the aforesaid blueprint, certain misunderstanding emerged locally, thus putting the
whole project to a halt.

Given all of the above and having perused your draft Report, we would like to let you
know that we have no comments on it. Looking forward to having a great future
collaboration, sincerely yours,

Gheorghe Salaru
Minister




                                            29
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      30
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


      Joint World Bank-IFC Country Partnership Strategy for Moldova for FY09-12
      Country Partnership Strategy for Moldova for the FY05-08
      Project Information Document
      Project Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
      Project Appraisal Document
      Environmental Impact Assessment
      Environmental Management Plans
      GEF Grant Agreement
      Aide Memoires
      Implementation Status Reports
      Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reports
      Project correspondence (letters, memos, etc)




                                        31
                                                                                                                                          IBRD 39105
                         27°E                                        28°E                     29°E                  30°E




                                                                                                           MOLDOVA
                                                                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                                                        INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                       Soroca                               PROJECT
48°N                                                                                                                                            48°N




                                                                                               Nis u
                                                                                               Nistru
                                                                                               Nis u
                                            Pr
                                               ut



                                                                                                             UKRAINE


         ROMANIA
                                                                                         ˘
                                                                                   CHISINAU
47°N                                                                                                                                            47°N




                                                                                                             N                       Odessa
                                                    MOLDOVA
                                                                                                              ist
                                                                                                                 ru




                                                                                                         UKRAINE
46°N                                                                                                                                            46°N
                                                                            Prut




        0     10      20     30      40 Kilometers                                                                                Black
        0          10           20         30 Miles                                                                                Se a
                                                                                                                                   Sea
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                   27°E                                             28°E                       29°E                        30°E
                                                                                                                                       FEBRUARY 2012
