Report No. PID8760
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Rural Water & Sanitation
Region                           Europe And Central Asia Region
Sector                           Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       KGPE36977
Borrower(S)                      Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Agriculture And Water Resources
Environment Category             C
Date Pid Prepared                October 27, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         September/October 2000
Projected Board Date             December 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
A Bank report "Kyrgyz Republic: Water Supply and Wastewater Sector Note"
(Report No 19487-KG, June 28, 1999), providing strategic guidance for the
reform of the country's water sector, was used as a basis for the sector
reform dialogue and the design of the project. The main sector issues and
the sector issues to be addressed under the project outlined in this and the
following section emanate from the Note and agreements reached with the
Government.(i) Main Sector IssuesService Coverage and Quality. Water and
wastewater service levels in the Kyrgyz Republic are low by international
standards. Only about one-third of the 4.6 million population has house
connections. Another third receives water from stand posts or water tankers
and the remaining third of the population has no organized water service.
Coverage is higest in the capital city of Bishkek (about 0.6 million people)
with about 80% of the people connected.   It drops off considerably in the
secondary cities (total of about 1 million people) and is extremely low for
the rural sector segment (total of about 3 million people). About half of
the estimated 1,750 villages have no functioning water system. In the
southern Oblasts of Osh and Jalal-Abad, only about 25 per cent of the
villages have operable water systems. Because of the poor state of repair of
facilities, lack of maintenance and insufficient resources available for
operations, the reliability and safety of the service is becoming an ever
more important concern and source of discontent of the population. Service
interruptions have become the norm rather than the exception, particularly in
the summer months. Even in Bishkek water is rationed and service in some
areas of the city is intermittent. Insufficient pressure has cut off people
living in upper level apartments. Service interruptions tend to be more
severe and prolonged in secondary cities and small towns. Much of the
village water systems are no longer in operation or near collapse, as
national government funding has ceased and village initiative to maintain the
system in working condition has been limited. Safety and Reliability of
Services and Public Health Concerns. The safety of the supply is of even
greater concern throughout the country, but most pronounced in the secondary
and smaller cities and villages. A variety of factors - breakdown of old
water treatment facilities, lack of resources to operate these facilities
adequately and disinfect water properly, increasing contamination of water
resources, inflow of polluted ground water into pipe systems during periods



of service interruptions - are contributing to ever more extensive violation
of drinking water quality standards. The Sanitary and Epidemiological
Service reports that in 1997, approximately 14t of water samples taken
throughout the country did not meet bacteriological standards, and 3.1- did
not meet physical/chemical standards. While, as a national average, these
results are not particularly alarming, the extent and frequency of unsafe
water quality has become critical in some areas. For instance, in the Chui
region, 86t and in the Talas region 70t of water systems do not meet sanitary
requirements.Over the recent past, the incidence of Hepatitis A, Typhoid,
diarrheal diseases and intestinal infections has significantly increased,
particularly in the southern regions of Osh and Jalal-Abad. In 1998 a large
outbreak of Typhoid Fever and Dysentery occurred in the Osh and Jalal-Abad
regions where 1,200 people were diagnosed with these diseases. The
deteriorating health situation has multiple causes: declining health
services, contaminated food, but there is no doubt that drinking water
contamination exacerbated by poor sanitation, hygiene and water use practices
plays an important role. People in rural areas appear to suffer most from
the absence of good water supplies. With the existing systems becoming
increasingly inoperable, some people walk large distances, only to obtain
contaminated water from springs, rivers and ponds. Water from irrigation
canals are the only source for many. People are aware of the danger of
unsafe water and try to protect themselves, but with limited success.
Contributing to deteriorating public health is the frequent absence of proper
sanitation facilities. Poorly designed pit latrines increase the risk of the
spread of disease by vectors such as flies and mosquitoes. Poor hygiene and
water handling habits contribute to the spread of disease even where safe
water is available.Sector Finances. Prior to independence, the Government
provided large subsidies which kept the water and wastewater systems at least
marginally operational. Now with the Government no longer able to provide
the subsidies of the past, the sector is in the midst of an unprecedented
financial crisis. The loss of subsidies, combined with low domestic tariff
levels - present tariff levels ranging from $0.03 to $0.10 per m3 - and poor
revenue collection - in many places to as low as 30 percent of billings -
have led to a financially untenable position for all water and sanitation
institutions. Today none of the sector institutions, including the Bishkek
Water and Wastewater Enterprise, are able to cover even basic operating and
maintenance costs, let alone replace or rehabilitate deteriorating facilities
or construct new works. To cope with the financial short fall, enterprises
have discontinued any maintenance, cut back on operating cost through
reducing operating hours, apply less than recommended chemicals, and are late
in paying their suppliers. Unless the financial base of the sector improves
drastically, water and sanitation services will continue to decline with ever
increasing social and economic costs. The development of community based
rural systems that cover cost through user contributions is an encouraging
development pointing to the potential for the introduction of cost recovery
principles.Investment Needs. A very rough estimate of the investment levels
required to provide the Kyrgyz people with a modest, but safe level of water
supply and sanitation services would be as follows: about US$90 million for
the rehabilitation and expansion of rural systems; about US$60 million for
the rehabilitating urban systems and to provide water by stand post to
unserved people; about US$20 million to rehabilitate sewerage systems in
densely populated urban areas; and about US$20 million to rehabilitate and
improve the performance of existing wastewater treatment plants. All
together about US$190 million of investments - about US$45 per capita - would
be needed to address the highest priority and most urgent concerns in water
-2 -



supply and wastewater services. Additional resources would be required to
improve sanitation in rural areas. Also, expenditures for maintenance and
operation will have to increase significantly. Even if real costs are
significantly different from the above estimates, they indicate a huge
challenge, if compared with present investment levels of close to zero. The
financial situation of the country and affordability limits on tariffs will
make it impossible to raise the financial resources needed in the near term.
Expanding and improving services will have to proceed in phases and
priorities will have to be set. The pace of sector development will be
determined by the future level of reousrces mobilization and the cost
effective utilization of these resources.
2. Objectives
For the majority of villages in the Issyk-kul, Naryn and Talas oblasts to
have access to safe and affordable water from community water systems which
they own, operate, maintain and manage in a sustainable manner.The strategies
for achieving the project development objective are:(a) Community
Participation: The project will use a participatory rural appraisal process
involving beneficiaries, including women, to assure that the project is
demand oriented and properly dimensioned and located. Training (of the local
administration and villages) for this purpose will be provided during project
preparation and implementation by a team of local and expatriate
specialists.(b) Cost effective and demand driven investments: To ensure
that the largest possible number of population are reached, the project will
give preference to reconstruction, expansion and rehabilitation of existing
systems. Also, to give incentive for cost effectiveness, the target
population (villages) will select the level of service (and hence the amount
of money to be invested and borrowed borrowed for rehabilitation) that is
within its financial capacity and willingness to pay.(c)          Cost recovery and
sustainability: to ensure sustainability and commitment, full operation and
maintenance cost, upfront contribution of 10-20- of capital cost (either in-
kind or in cash), and debt service for the remaining capital borrowed will be
collected by water user association or other acceptable management
mechanisms(d)    Enabling institutions that facilitate a program of demand
driven rural water supply: Improve the governance of the rural water supply
sector at the local level through introduction of community management and
ownership, assisting local government and communities in building capacity
for planning, implementing and administering services, forming and training
water user committees, and using the private sector for delivery of goods and
services. Improving governance at the central government level through
creation of an institutional structure for policy formulation and
implementation facilitation at the national level, and project implementation
capacity at the regional and district level governments.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This project will initiate cooperation between the World Bank and the Kyrgyz
water sector. The reform program for the rural sector has been sculpted based
on the World Bank sector report. The implementation of reform is slow and
the condition of the water and sanitation services continues to deteriorate.
Indeed, the small towns systems are operating in emergency conditions and
complete breakdown of services appears imminent. The value added of Bank
support in this project lies in: (i) assistance in developing a long term,
community based rural water program that could serve as a common framework
for other IFIs; (ii) developing and implementing an institutional framework
which reduces the government's administrative and fiscal burden; (iii)
-3 -



introducing a sustainable model for rural water provision; (v) acting as
catalyst for various policy and sector reform decisions; (v) facilitating
investment in the rural sector by other IFIs. There is also value added to
the Bank's own learning and experience in implementing a flexible project
design, and preparing the first community based project in a transition
economy.
4. Description
Component 1: Village Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and Construction
1(a)   Investments in the rehabilitation of village water supply
infrastructure. l(b)    Investments in programs to improve sanitation and
promote hygienic water usepractices among the population.Component 2: Small
Towns Water Systems Rehabilitation2(a)     Investments in facilities
rehabilitation, efficiency improvements and service improvements. Component
3: Institutional Strengthening, Project Management and Sub-Project
Preparation for Village Water Supply Systems3(a)    Technical Assistance and
training to build Rural Water Supply institutional infrastructure.3(b)
Technical Assistance and training for local consultants and officials on
investment formulation,    establishment of water user association, financial
anagement and project proposal formulation.3(c)     Consulting Services to
national and regional rural water supply institutions in the management and
implementation of the project, including the preparation of technical,
financial, socioeconomic studies, preparation final designs and procurement
documents for village level subprojects.Component 4: Institutional
Strengthening and Project Management for Small Towns Water Systems4(a)
Technical assistance for capacity building, training, management support,
office/IT equipment for    improving the management and operations of
participating urban water and waste water enterprises.4(b)     Consulting
Services to participating national and regional institutions in the
management and    implementation of small towns component.Component 5:
Incremental Project Operating Cost5(a)    Financing of administrative support,
office equipment, vehicles, spare parts and other operational cost for the
organizations involved in project management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               3.59
IBRD
IDA                      15
Total Project Cost       18.59
6. Implementation
The IDA Credit will be channeled through the Ministry of Finance. The
operational management of the small towns component will be undertaken by
KJKS, within the Ministry of Industry. Project preparation for the rural
component is being led by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources;
and implementation will be the responsibility of the new National Rural Water
Supply Agency (NRWSA). Project implementation is expected to be
decentralized within the Agency, with the local offices playing a key role in
providing technical assistance to communities and building private sector
capacity to ensure smooth subproject implementation. Subproject
implementation will be the responsibility of the Regional Rural Water Supply
Agencies (RRWSA), who will work in coordination with Akimats and communities
under the supervision and guidance by NRWSA. The Kyrgyz Government
acknowledges the need to establish an appropriate institutional structure for
- 4 -



rural water, and is hiring Consultants to assist with the institutional
restructuring to create a NRWSA, and prepare a project Implementation Manual.
The manual will outline the rules and procedures for project implementation,
and will be discussed with stakeholders. The detailed subproject cycle and
rules will be developed during project preparation.Sub Project Agreement.
The main features of each rural project - description, cost, implementation
schedule, procurement, financing plan, financial obligations will be recorded
in an credit agreement signed by authorized community representatives and the
RRWSA. The agreement becomes the basis for implementation monitoring.
Communities not complying with the conditions of the credit agreement would
be subject to sanctions, including loss of the credit. Likewise, RRWSAs not
complying with their obligations under the project could loose access to the
credit. The Operating Manual would include models for the preparation of
community project appraisal documents and the subproject agreement.Project
preparation and selection criteria. All Vodokanals in the three Oblasts will
be eligible for the project, but to receive support under the project they
will be required, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to present a project
proposal acceptable to the Bank that includes:a plan for organizational
reform and institutional strengthening and capacity building with agreed
terms of reference for the technical assistance programs to be implemented
during the project;a five year performance contract with regional and
municipal government;a financial plan that clearly shows that how the
Vodokanal will meet financial viability criteria, financial projections with
specific commitments for increases in tariffs and collections; a
socioeconomic analysis that demonstrates that the consumers are prepared and
capable of contributing through tariffs;technical feasibility study, project
description and cost; it is important to stress that selected technical
solutions should reflect the preferences of the community; innovative, cost
effective, local solutions will be encouraged;   present technical norms that
prevent cost effective and affordable solutions must be reviewed;project
implementation and procurement plan. Investment Phasing. Investments to be
supported under the project will concentrate on making existing facilities,
plants and networks work more efficiently through programs of rehabilitation,
leak reduction, energy conservation, and demand management. As funding for
sub projects will be severely restricted and only cover a fraction of overall
investment needs, the project would fund only investments with high immediate
payback and highest priority with two central objectives: (i) making service
delivery more efficient to save cost; and (ii) to improve service reliability
and quality. Innovative and creative solutions will need to be identified to
make best use of the funding available. Prevailing technical norms and
standards with respect to technical designs and water quality standards may
be too ambitious and need to be reformulated or suspended.Financing and
Execution of the preparatory work. The Preparation of the project will be a
coordinated effort by the government, the Bank and expert consultants. A PHRD
grant of $ 640,000 is available, but will not be sufficient to finance all
preparation needs. The Bank will assist the government in finding additional
grant financing from the international donor community. If this proves to be
unsuccessful, a Project Preparation Facility, which is an advance to the IDA
credit, may be needed. The Bank will propose consultants for project
preparatory work and will assist in all phases of the work.     Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) arrangements. A project-specific M&E system will serve as
the key project impact and performance monitoring tool. This will also
ensure prompt response to problems and dissemination of lessons as they are
learnt. Besides operational indicators for different phases of the project
such as number of Consumer Associations formed, acceptance of project rules
- 5 -



by consumers, number of water systems under construction and completed, the
main performance indicators reflect the willingness and success of
communities in taking responsibility for their water supply and sanitation
systems and may be grouped as follows: number of operating systems after
assets transfer to users, financial health of community managed water
systems, and planned extensions to the water and sanitation systems. Other
indicators include detailed progress benchmarks covering physical works,
procurement and disbursement, and financial management.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the water and sanitation facilities rests on three key
elements:A. Create suppport infrastructure - rural water supply
organizations: Establishment and operation of rural water supply
organization, to be created during project preparation, is critical to the
sustainability of the project investment and the sector. As described
earlier, the organizational structure would entail: (i) a national policy
making body - National Rural Water Supply Agency - to be created, staffed,
trained and its organizational manadate defined; and (ii) regional
administrative body - Regional Rural Water Supply Agency - to be created
under each of the regional administration, staffed, trained and its
organizational mandate defined for supervising the implementation of national
policy, advising and training the villages to manage and operate their own
water systems, and to supervise the implementation of the project; and (iii)
village administrative body - water users association - to be created manage,
operate and maintain the village water system, to collect water charges and
manage the finances of the water system, and to prepare investment proposals
on behalf of the village population for water system rehabilitation
project.B. Community willingness and capacity to manage and sustain
services: this will be achieved by requiring communities to demonstrate
their commitment to service improvement upfront, including taking initiative,
making a cash contribution and undertaking organizational responsibilities.
Community capacity will also be strengthened through the project in the areas
of community organization, operations and maintenance, financial management,
hygiene education, and effective water usage and disposal to help them manage
their services in the long-term.C. Availability of goods and services in the
local markets, accessible by the communities: this will be achieved by
working through district and regional-based private and NGO organizations.
The project will include intensive capacity building to help these agencies
better respond to community demand, and will also look at the longer term
incentives to keep these agencies functioning, especially in terms of selling
spare parts and providing technical assistance to communities. The public
sector will also have to play a supportive role, especially at the oblast
administration level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's involvement in the water and wastewater sector in the transition
countries is still at its beginning and no operation has been completed.
Among the projects under implementation, this is the only project introducing
a demand-driven, community managed approach to water provision. One of the
main lessons in the Bank's water sector operations worldwide and in the
region is that poor quality at entry may result in unrealistic expectations,
disbursement delays, and poor institutional and financial performance.
Emphasis is therefore being placed on front-loading preparations with
institutional restructuring, implementation guidelines, and about 10 per cent
of the sub-projects being ready before the project is effective. On-going
- 6 -



rural water supply projects in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan provide valuable
lessons in how not to prepare a project. In the case of the Uzbekistan
project, implementation has suffered from lack of up front restructuring of
institutions responsible for management of the sector and implementation of
the project, poor implementation planning and incomplete preparation of sub-
components. In the case of the Turkmenistan project, implementation has
suffered from suspension of project disbursement due to corruption by foreign
firms, and need for re-design of the main rehabilitation component due to
reliance on a large single contract to rehabilitate highly dispersed small
rural systems. Other important lessons and the manner of their incorporation
is outlined below.The project concept revolves around community selection of
the level of service with its associated costs, community management of
facilities, and cost recovery - this approach to delivering potable water
supply and sanitation to the population in rural areas is expected to lead to
the creation of sustainable water systems. It is also expected to lead to, in
some cases, increased private sector involvement in operations and management
of water systems. The incorporation of the outlined design features is based
on lessons learnt from project experience in West African, Latin Amercan, and
Asian countries such as Ghana, Senegal, Columbia, Vietnam, and Sri Lanka,
regarding service provision in low income communities and where government
resources are constrained. There has also been substantial analytical work
completed within the Bank with willingness-to-pay studies. These analyses
show that users are often willing to pay for reliability, quality, and
access. The operationalizing of the project concept and its successful
implementation need to be adjusted to the Kyrgyz context and institutions.
Key economic, financial, organizational and technological rules will be
defined during project preparation. It is very important there is strong
involvement and ownership by all stakeholders, including the Borrower, the
project executing agencies, and the beneficiary communities. Institutional
changes, establishment of water consumer associations in about fifteen
percent of communities, and certain other key steps will be required at each
stage of the preparation activities. These would serve both as a
demonstration of borrower commitment and to ensure smoother project
implementation at effectiveness.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Motoo Konishi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:  (202) 473-4278
Fax:  (202) 614-0902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-7-



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



