Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3579 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 12, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3579 KG
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 2002, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Department for International Development of the United Kingdom (DFID) 
has agreed to make available a grant to the Borrower in an amount of approximately $6,250,000 
equivalent (the DFID Grant) to assist in financing of Parts B and C.2 of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the agreement to be concluded between DFID and the Borrower 
(DFID Grant Agreement), as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
Page  3
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any CDWSA (as defined hereafter) selected pursuant to 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined hereafter), which is a recipient or 
proposed to be a recipient of a Sub-credit (as defined hereafter);
(b)
“CDWSA” means Community Drinking Water Supply Association of the 
Borrower;
(c)
“DRWS” means the Department of Rural Water Supply of MAWR (as defined 
hereafter), or any successor thereto;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services and 
Operating Costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“KAS” means the State Republican Institution Kyrgyz Ayil Suu, registered by 
the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower on October 14, 1999, registration number 3071; 
(g)
“MAWR” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Processing Industry of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(h)
“NCHP” means the National Center for Health Promotion of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Operational Manual may 
be amended from time to time;
(j)
“Participating Oblasts” means Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Talas oblasts of the 
Borrower;
(k)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
Page  4
agreement of the Association;
(l)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within MAWR,  for 
purposes of Project management and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(o)
”Sub-credit” means a credit provided or proposed to be provided to an eligible 
Beneficiary from the proceeds of the Credit to finance expenditures in respect of goods, works 
and consultants’ services necessary for carrying out of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project; 
and
(p)
“Sub-project” means a sub-project selected for implementation under Part A of 
the Project in accordance with the principles and procedures, and eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made under a 
Sub-credit to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Sub-project 
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services and Operating Costs required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
Page  5
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing March 15, 2012, and ending September 15, 2041. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on September 15, 2021, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
Page  6
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MAWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
Page  7
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  8
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  9
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the prior consent of the Association.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
DFID Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions, namely, a rural hygiene and sanitation consultant and a project 
management consultant, both acceptable to the Association, have been employed for the 
purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, respectively.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
Page  10
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
Facsimile:
245156 NUR  KH
(996-312) 66-16-45
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By
/s/ Bolot Abildaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  11
By
/s/ Dennis N. de Tray
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-credits under
8,300,000
100% of the
Part A of the Project
amounts disbursed
(2)
Consultants’
1,000,000
100%
services including 
training under 
Part C of the Project
(3)
Operating Costs
320,000
90%
(4)
Unallocated
2,380,000
TOTAL
12,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable 
incremental expenses incurred by DRWS and PMU on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of transportation and travel, training, 
communication, office equipment and supplies, maintenance of office equipment, staff salaries 
(but excluding salaries of civil servants), and other reasonable and necessary activities directly 
related to Project implementation, management and monitoring as may be agreed upon by the 
Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 250,000, may be made 
on account of payments for expenditures made before that date but after September 1, 2001. 
Page  12
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
$100,000 equivalent each or less; (b) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (d) training and 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  13
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR`2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
Page  15
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $800,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide the rural population of the Issyk-Kul, 
Naryn and Talas oblasts of the Borrower with access to safe and affordable drinking water from 
water supply systems which the communities own, operate, maintain and manage in a sustainable 
manner; and (b) to improve hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family 
and institutional levels in the rural areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and Construction
Provision of Sub-credits to eligible CDWSAs for carrying out of Sub-projects designed 
to construct or rehabilitate drinking water schemes and facilities in about 250 villages of the 
Participating Oblasts.
Part B
: Rural Hygienic Promotion and Sanitation Improvements
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower and to selected CDWSAs for:
1.
Strengthening the NCHP institutional capacity to conduct health promotion, 
advisory and training activities.
2.
Carrying out of an effective hygiene promotion program. 
3.
Improvement of sanitation facilities at village level.
4.
Implementation of an efficient and cost effective system of water quality 
protection.
Part C
: Project Management and Implementation
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the management and implementation of the 
Project, including procurement related activities, auditing services, environmental monitoring, 
Page  16
Project, including procurement related activities, auditing services, environmental monitoring, 
training, design and implementation of a system of financial management and accounting, 
preparation of Project related accounts and financial statements, and financing of the operating 
costs.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to PMU, DRWS and Beneficiaries for the 
preparation, implementation and administration of Sub-projects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:  General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and 
(b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  17
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  18
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B of this Section I and the first two contracts to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section I and the first three contracts to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.4 of this Section I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any works contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
Page  19
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for environmental monitoring estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
Page  20
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 and all 
contracts to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section II, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract not governed by subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) 
above, terms of reference shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the PIP.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and shall cause PMU to prepare 
and provide to the Association quarterly, starting January 2002, and after that not later than 30 
days after each calendar quarter, a report on the progress of Project implementation, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to 
Page  21
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to 
the Association. The Operational Manual shall cover, inter alia, such matters as: (a) eligibility 
criteria for the Beneficiaries; (b) the principles and procedures to be followed for the approval of 
Sub-projects; (c) the terms and conditions to be included in the sub-credit agreements; and (d) 
the indicators to be utilized by the PMU in monitoring the progress of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary for the implementation of the action 
plan, agreed with the Association, for the privatization of KAS by December 31, 2002.
5.
Sub-credits shall be made to Beneficiaries on terms and conditions adequate to protect 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and accomplish the purposes of the Project, 
including the following:
(a)
the Beneficiary shall carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate technical, sanitary, financial and environmental practices, to 
maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for the Project;
(b)
5% of the amount of the Sub-credit provided to the Beneficiary from the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be repayable by the Beneficiary over the period of 7 years, inclusive 
of a grace period of 4 years, and the rest of such an amount shall be provided as a non-repayable 
portion;
(c)
the Beneficiary shall provide a portion of the cost of the Sub-project, in 
accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational Manual;
(d)
all works, goods and consultant’s services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and in the Operational Manual, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Sub-projects;
(e)
PMU shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, Sub-project sites, plans, goods and any 
relevant records and documents; and
(f)
PMU shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
the use the proceeds of the Credit and require the refund of the disbursed amounts of the 
Sub-credit, upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the sub-credit 
agreement.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about June 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
Page  22
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
