                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001084




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-35790)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION
                           (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                                KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                      FOR A

              RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                   May 15, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 2009)



                       Currency Unit =        KGS
                        KGS 41.1620 =         US$1
                          US$1.47609 =        SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    ­     December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
AO       Ayil Okmotu (Village Administration ­ Local Self-Government Body)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Childhood Diarrhea Diseases
CDS      Country Development Strategy
CDWSA    Community Drinking Water Supply Association
CDWUU    Community Drinking Water Users Union (Association)
DFID     Department for International Development (UK)
DRWS     Department of Rural Water Supply
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FSU      Former Soviet Union
GIS      Geographical Information System
GoKR     Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
IA       Impact Assessment
IDA      International Development Association
IFR      Interim un-audited Financial Report
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KAS      Kyrgyz Ayil Suu
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAWRPI   Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Processing Industry
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
MIS      Management Information System
MTR      Midterm Review
NALSG    National Agency for Local Self-Governance
NCHP     National Center for Health Promotion
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PHAST    Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation
PMC      Project Management Consultant
PMU      Project Management Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RCHP     Republican Center for Health Promotion

RHSP    Rural Hygiene and Sanitation Project
RRK     Rapid Response Kit
RWSSP   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
SDA     Service Delivery Agreement
SES     Sanitary Epidemiological Surveillance




                    Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                  Country Director: Motoo Konishi, ECCU8
                  Country Manager Roger Robinson, ECCKG
                   Sector Manager: Wael Zakout, ECSSD
                Task Team Leader: Mirlan Aldayarov, ECSSD

                                       KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                      RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 28
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 44
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 50
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
 Map IBRD No. 36804................................................................................................... 52

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Rural Water Supply &
Country:                Kyrgyz Republic         Project Name:
                                                                       Sanitation Project
Project ID:             P036977                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35790
ICR Date:               05/18/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 12.0M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 12.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:


The Department of Rural Water Supply
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/03/1999    Effectiveness:                             04/26/2002
Appraisal:             03/19/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/04/2001    Mid-term Review:        11/15/2004         11/01/2004
                                     Closing:                10/31/2007         10/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     Moderately


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):              Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water supply                                                   100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                 33                33
Participation and civic engagement                               33                33
Rural services and infrastructure                                34                34


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Motoo Konishi                     Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager:           Wael Zakout                       Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:      Mirlan Aldayarov                  Kavita Sethi
ICR Team Leader:          Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Primary Author:       Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of this project are for the majority of villages in the Issyk-
Kul, Naryn and Talas oblasts (i) to have improved access to potable water from water
supply systems which the communities own, operate maintain and manage in a
sustainable manner; and (ii) to improve hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at
individual, family and institutional levels in the rural areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective was not revised




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   At least 175 subprojects with renewed access to community water systems
Value                                                                       166 subprojects
quantitative or 0                          175 communities                  (covering 203
Qualitative)                                                                communities)
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The actual value exceeded the original target by 16.6%. Number of subprojects is

achievement)    smaller since a subproject may cover two or more communities

Indicator 2 :   Approximate population served with potable water facilities.

Value
quantitative or 0                          350,000                          334,410
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The actual value represents 95.5% of original target.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   More than 50% of CDWUUs collecting tariffs, operating and maintaining water
                systems after completion of rehabilitation/construction works.
                                                                            60% of CDWUUs
                                                                            collect more than
Value           0% of CDWUUs were          >50% of                          60% of their
quantitative or                                                             budgets 30% of
Qualitative)    collecting tariffs         CDWUUs                           CDWUUs collect
                                                                            between 20% and
                                                                            60% of budgets
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Percentage decrease in incidence of stomach pains and diarrhea in children in
                project areas
                                                                            Overall incidence
                                                                            of Giardiasis in
                                                                            children fell by

Value                                                                       nearly two thirds,

quantitative or n/a                        Giardiasis>55%;                  from 30-9% to 13.2

Qualitative)                               Enterobiasis>49%                 from 2005 to 2007.
                                                                            Acute intestinal
                                                                            infection was
                                                                            reduced in 49% of
                                                                            villages
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008


                                               iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised     Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Representation and participation of users in CDWUUs (# of CDWUUs)
Value                                      175 CDWUUs are                   173 CDWUUs are
(quantitative  0                           established and                  established and
or Qualitative)                            operational                      operational
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  No. of institutional sanitation facilities completed.
                                                                            Actual: Hygiene
                                                                            promotion training
Value                                                                       in over 200
(quantitative  0                           All RWSP sp                      villages. 180 toilets
or Qualitative)                            covered                          are in schools and
                                                                            at 150 medical
                                                                            centers
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Change of women workload (% of reported)
Value                                                                       97% - easier
(quantitative  n/a                         100% - easier                    workload (impact
or Qualitative)                            workload                         assessment)
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Timely repairs of water facilities
                                                                            All breakdown
Value                                      All breakdown                    cases have been
(quantitative  n/a                         cases are timely                 repaired with 91%
or Qualitative)                            repaired                         of cases within 20
                                                                            days
Date achieved 04/26/2002                   04/26/2002                       10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                iv

Indicator 5 :  No. of civil works contractors trained
Value                                    All project                  All project
(quantitative  0                         contractors are              contractors are
or Qualitative)                          trained                      trained
Date achieved 04/26/2002                 04/26/2002                   10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP          Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.00
  2     06/07/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.20
  3     08/19/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.21
  4     05/22/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.45
  5     08/08/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.71
  6     12/10/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.98
  7     06/25/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                1.61
  8     12/06/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                3.96
  9     05/31/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                5.52
  10    05/15/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 9.92
  11    05/10/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               15.03
  12    08/20/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               16.21
  13    02/08/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               17.70



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background: Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Kyrgyzstan
adopted major political, institutional and governance reforms, which fundamentally changed life
in Kyrgyzstan. At appraisal, the main sector issues facing Kyrgyzstan were the following:

Service Coverage and Quality. Water and wastewater service levels in the Kyrgyz Republic were
low by international standards. Only about one-third of the national population of 4.6 million had
household connections. Another 40 percent received water from stand posts or water tankers and
the rest had no organized water service. Most groundwater pumping systems, disinfecting
facilities, and rural stand posts were inoperable and users had reverted to open water sources.
Because of the poor state of repair of facilities, lack of maintenance and insufficient resources
available for operations, the reliability and safety of the service had become a critical concern and
source of discontent among the population. The low quality of water supply was of ever greater
concern throughout the country, but most pronounced in secondary and smaller cities and
villages. Factors contributing to increasing violations of drinking water quality standards included
breakdown of old water treatment facilities and lack of resources to operate them adequately and
disinfect water properly, increasing contamination levels of water resources, inflows of polluted
ground water into pipe systems during periods of service interruptions

Declining health indicators in the Kyrgyz Republic were linked to deteriorating water supply
systems. The incidence of hepatitis A, typhoid, diarrheal diseases, and intestinal infections had
significantly increased, particularly in the southern regions of Osh and Jalal-Abad. Falling health
indicators were attributed to multiple causes, including declining health services and
contaminated food, but social assessment and health surveys conducted in the Kyrgyz Republic
indicated that drinking water contamination exacerbated by poor sanitation, hygiene, and water
use practices, were the primary causes of falling health indicators.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The Country Assistance Strategy1 (CAS) supported poverty
reduction through specific investments in basic social services, including health, rural water
supply and sanitation, and support for rural infrastructure projects. The project was consistent
with the Bank poverty reduction strategy and focused on the priorities listed above, in particular it
supported: (i) an increased role for the private sector through privatizing rural water provision
under a demand responsive approach; (ii) improving conditions for the rural poor by investments
in rural water schemes to halt the deterioration of services and combat public health threats; (iii)
improved governance via restructuring rural water institutions; and (iv) strengthening public
finance by introducing cost recovery from consumers, thereby reducing public expenditures.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The development objectives of this project were for the majority of villages in the Issyk-Kul,
Naryn and Talas oblasts (i) to have improved access to potable water from water supply systems
which the communities own, operate maintain and manage in a sustainable manner; and (ii) to




1 Document Number: 17641-KG, CAS Progress Report (05/0798)




                                                   1

improve hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family and institutional
levels in the rural areas.

Key Indicators2 were:

    · Number of villages with access to safe water supply services and adequately using,
        managing and sustaining the improved services
    · Number of registered and functioning Community Drinking Water Supply Associations
        (CDWUUs) that have collected community contributions
    · Reduction in the incidence of Childhood Diarrhea Diseases (CDD) and a reduction in
        incidence of intestinal worm infections
    · Increase in safe hand-washing practices, clean household latrines, schools with sanitary
        surveillance programs, and safe storage and handling of drinking water.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The objective was not revised

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The beneficiaries of the project included:

    · Rural communities. Approximately 350,000 of the 561,000 people in the rural areas of
        Naryn, Talas and Issyk-Kul benefited from the project.

    · Oblast and Rayon governments gained significant institutional capacity in developing
        Oblast water and sanitation plans and in working with communities to facilitate sub-
        projects. This contributed to strengthening the community/local government link, with
        spill-over effects to other rural development activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of five components as follows:

Component 1 - Village Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and Construction:
US$16.25million. This component was to finance the rehabilitation/construction of about 250
drinking water schemes. While the typology of schemes to be adopted was to emerge during
project implementation, it was expected that a large number of the schemes would be piped water
schemes with public stand posts. Within the piped water schemes, the technology options were to
vary primarily by type of water source. The schemes were expected to cover settlements ranging
from a few hundred to several thousand inhabitants each.

Project Component 2 - Rural Hygiene Promotion and Sanitation Improvements: US$1.75
million. This component, developed and funded by the Department for International
Development (DFID3), linked rural water supply and health. It consisted of the following sub-
components:




2Indicators given in the original Results Framework Analysis were further developed during
implementation.
3DFID co-financed US$6.25 million for Component 2 of the project.



                                                     2

         Sub-Component A: Completion of an effective hygiene promotion program in the rural
areas of the three oblasts. Initial research had shown that two key hygiene issues were the failure
to use soap following defecation/urination, and poor sanitation. The hygiene promotion program
aimed to increase understanding of links between water, hygiene and health. Completing hygiene
promotion programs aimed to maximize health benefits from the Bank water supply project.

         Sub-Component B: Capacity building at the National Center for Health Promotion
(NCHP). It was envisaged that the NCHP would be established under the Bank's Second Health
Project. It was to become the link between the Kyrgyz Republic and international practice in the
area of evidence-based health promotion. It was expected to: (i) act as a resource and training
center and develop materials, health promotion methods, and guidelines; (ii) coordinate activities
of various organizations acting in the same field; and (iii) become a policy advisory organization
for the government, through the MOH.

         Sub-Component C: Improvement of sanitation facilities at village level (school and house
latrines, concomitant hand washing facilities). The sanitation improvements were to link with the
Bank project selection of villages for water supply. This activity sought to motivate local
populations to improve their household sanitation facilities by demonstrating the benefits of
improved facilities at schools and medical posts. It also sought to build capacity within rural areas
so that household facilities could be improved to the level that individual householders desire.

         Sub-Component D: Implementation of an efficient and cost effective system of water
quality protection, integrating both laboratory and sanitary surveillance approaches. This activity
aimed to work with the Sanitary Epidemiological Surveillance (SES) to improve water quality
monitoring methods and procedures for addressing violations of water quality.

Project Component 3 - Project Implementation and Village Capacity Building: US$4.50
million. This component was to finance a Management Contractor to implement Component 1
and to provide technical assistance and community development activities to strengthen
communities' capacity to plan, implement, operate, and maintain water and sanitation facilities in
an effective and sustainable manner.

Project Component 4 - Consultant Services and Training: US$1.50 million. This component
was to finance international and local consultants to assist with: (i) supervision of the project
management consultant; (ii) review and approval of sub-project proposals; (iii) maintenance of
project accounts as per the Financial Management requirements of International Development
Association (IDA); (iv) environmental issues; (v) monitoring and evaluation reporting; (vi)
auditing, and (vii) training.

Project Component 5 - Incremental Operating Costs: US$0.55 million. This component was
to finance incremental operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU), including
financing administrative support, office equipment, spare parts, communication charges, other
operational costs, and project audits.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
There were no changes in project design, scope and scale, or implementation arrangements.
Changes occurred in the project schedule and funding allocation, as described below:



                                                  3

Project Schedule. The project closing date was extended once by one year from October 31, 2007
to October 31, 2008 to complete 16 sub-projects that were at risk of noncompletion by the
original closing date. Two linked factors contributed to delays: poor performance of some
contractors, which led to contract termination under the investment programs of the last years of
project implementation, and a lengthy process of rebidding

Funding allocations. In September 2005, during project supervision, SDR897,900 was
reallocated from Category 2 (Consultants' Services) to Category 1 (Sub-credits under Part A of
the project), and SDR 2,380,000 was reallocated from Category 4 (Unallocated) to Category 1
(Sub-credits under Part A of the project). The reallocation aimed to ensure adequate coverage of
the intended number of subprojects. Further, due to substantial DFID co-financing focusing on
technical assistance, most Bank funds were utilized for physical works.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
This project was the first-ever Bank operation in the water and waste water sector to apply a
participatory and community-managed approach, not only in Kyrgyzstan but also in the Region.
The project proposed an innovative approach to address sustainability issues of rural water supply
through community participation by creating community-based water users' unions. However, the
project preparation team did not have a comprehensive understanding of the Kyrgyz situation and
therefore had a steep learning curve on how to design this type of project for the sector.

The project team focused on the following areas which needed improvement, as pointed out by
the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in its Quality at Entry assessment: (a) Establishing fully
functional PIU prior the project effectiveness: PIU was established before                 project
implementation began although it was not fully functional when the pilot sub-projects were
selected and designed, (b) Insufficient focus on communities empowerment: the firth year
program sub-projects were prepared without proper focus to empower the communities but this
approach was revised during the project implementation with additional attention paid by the
project team to empower communities through community mobilization and capacity building
campaigns; (c) Operation and maintenance of completed facilities: this was addressed during the
project implementation through training in          operation and maintenance provided to the
communities; and (d) Lack of cooperation with ADB: efforts were made to harmonize donor
efforts in the sector later in implementation, which led to a     joint PMU and a more coherent
approach throughout the sector.

In addition to the above, during preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned
from previous Bank-assisted projects in service provision for low income communities and where
government resources were constrained in the water and waste water sector worldwide. Likewise,
the design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all
major risks identified at appraisal. The project also provided a participatory framework involving
stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.

    · Simplicity in project design lowers project risks. The design of this operation involving
communities was kept simple, with the main focus on rural water provision and institutional
reforms. Given that the successful community-based operations require sufficient capacity to be




                                                 4

able to maintain and operate the system and CDWUUs had generally low capacity the simplicity
of design has become highly important.

     · Timely project preparation is important for successful implementation. Experience from
around the world underlined the importance of rigorous, early preparation for successful
implementation. Poor quality at entry might lead to unrealistic expectations, disbursement delays,
and poor institutional and financial performance. Rural water supply projects in Uzbekistan and
Turkmenistan highlight the need for high quality at entry.

     · Devolution of responsibilities is important for sustainability. The single most important
requirement for sustainability of investments in rural water provision is the devolution of O&M
responsibilities to user communities. The project made this requirement its central theme and
provided extensive support for capacity enhancement at the local level.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) had identified
certain risks (see below) and appropriate mitigation measures were taken during preparation.
Even though there were very few areas where risks were high or substantial, when identified, they
were managed appropriately:

(i) DRWS interferes with the functioning of CDWUUs and private contractors: this risk remained
a factor throughout the project implementation, however it was managed through the
establishment of an early warning system, which helped the project team to spot those cases of
political interference and take preventive actions. These actions resulted in carrying follow up site
visits by engineering teams, corrective measures taken by the contactors, and refund of ineligible
expenses.

(ii) Government does not provide budget allocations for DRWS provision: The supervision team
closely followed up and interacted with the Government and there was no problem with budget
allocations for DRWS during implementation. However, the level of financing was comparable to
that of other state institutions and obviously was not sufficient to maintain sufficient level of
incentives for eh state entities staff to be actively engaged in the project. This issue is cross-
sectoral and was beyond control of the project team.

(iii) Communities are not able or willing to participate and community demand does not guide
investment decisions: The communities were actively participating in all the decisions made
throughout the sub-project cycle. This was due to very extensive community mobilization
activities carried out during the project implementation.

Adequacy of participatory processes. As part of the Social Assessment, several meetings were
held with beneficiaries to address public health, hygiene, and social issues. Consultations on
Kyrgyz environmental requirements for the project were held with environmental authorities and
implementing agencies during the project appraisal mission.

Stakeholders were consulted intensively in September-November 2000 when two social
assessments were conducted--for water supply and usage, and sanitation and hygiene issues.
These assessments entailed household surveys, focus groups, in-situ observations, and interviews
of experts. Two national workshops were also held with government officials, NGOs, and donors;
and studies and workshops enabled the project team to tailor project design to stakeholder needs.




                                                 5

2.2 Implementation
Though there were no any major problems throughout the life of the project, there were several
factors, which had an impact on implementation and led to the extension of the project closing
date:

    · During the project implementation the country experienced a rapid increase in the price
        of construction materials, which generally led to revising costs upwards, re-tendering and
        delays. As a result, additional completion works in three sub-projects are included in the
        follow up Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP-2);

    · There were cases of re-tendering due to poor contractor performance. In some instances,
        contractors dropped out, leaving works only partially completed. The team estimate is
        that the works were only completed by contractors after re-tendering in about 25 percent
        of sub-projects. One reason for uneven performances of contractors was that there was a
        large increase in construction activity in the country, which put stress on the national pool
        of contractors and resulted in some less qualified and inexperienced contractors being
        awarded sub-project contracts. This could sometimes lead to poor quality of construction.
        The project team carefully monitored this issue and increased the level of supervision of
        the quality of construction.

    · There was some inadequate responsiveness from some communities to provide their 15
        percent in-kind contribution on a timely basis. There were also related problems with
        cash flows and with the financial capacity of some contractors. In many cases, this led to
        delays in implementation.

    · Some fiduciary issues (i.e. weak internal control system, incomplete recording of
        accounting transactions, lack of monitoring from FM side, etc) were identified during the
        project supervision. These issues have been highlighted in Aide Memoires and some
        follow up actions were taken to try to improve the situation. However, due to inadequate
        capacity of the PMU procurement and financial management staff some of these issues
        persisted for some time and affected management of the project. The Project team could
        have addressed these issues more forcefully to ensure that these issues were resolved in
        more timely manner.

    · Governance issues: Due to low salaries and lack of material incentives, there was a high
        staff turnover at the DRWS and Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and
        Processing Industry (MAWRPI). This high staff turnover required increased efforts to be
        made by the PMU and Project Management Consultants to train new staff.

        As the Ministry of Agriculture was not as interested in drinking water supply as much as
        it was in irrigation, DRWS was neglected by the Ministry, especially in terms of adequate
        budget provision. As a result, the DRWS remained weak: its budget was inadequate, staff
        capacity was low, and its role in providing rural water and sanitation programs was not
        clearly acknowledged within the government.

        The government considered various options to increase DRWS' effectiveness and long-
        term sustainability, including establishing an independent water regulatory authority,
        forming a new ministry of water resources, or locating DRWS within the National
        Agency for Local Self Government (NALSG). Based on this analysis, the government


                                                  6

        decided, through the Decree of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic UP#468 dated
        December 27, 2008, to transfer DRWS to NALSG. This new structure is intended to
        ensure closer links within the sector and with the rural self-government bodies.


    · The general instability of the political environment in 2005 caused significant delays in
        project implementation including: (i) logistical inability for the consultants and
        contractors to travel and perform their tasks in the regions of social unrest; (ii) inability of
        the local state administrations to ensure the community participation; and (iii) inability of
        the central ministry officials to take project decisions.


The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in November 2004. The MTR mission assessed
progress in the implementation of the project and was satisfied that the project was meeting or
would meet its development objectives at its conclusion. The MTR mission also recommended a
reallocation of project funds to increase the coverage of villages participating in the project. The
mission was concerned about a possible breakdown in communication between the PMC and
DRWS due to an unclear definition of the roles and responsibilities of members of the project
team. In the discussions with the Government counterparts it was clarified once again that overall
responsibility for the implementation of the Project lies with the DRWS, through the PMU, and
that the PMC's main role was to provide technical support to the PMU and DRWS in the
implementation of the Project. The mission highlighted the DRWS's important role in facilitating
direct communication between contractors and PMC, to avoid confusion on contractual issues. It
was decided that henceforth, DRWS would not take unilateral decisions on technical matters
without consulting the PMC, and that clear lines of communication should be maintained on
contractual agreements. The mission also discussed the possibility of setting up a CDWUU
Federation, which resulted in creation of the network of CDWUUs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Although project outcome and output indicators were specified in detail, many of
these indicators had no specific targets at the time of preparation, but during implementation, a
more comprehensive monitoring framework was implemented. Furthermore, since no baseline
survey was performed during project preparation, it was challenging and difficult to evaluate
project progress and impact.

M&E implementation. The PMU attempted to set up a systematic collection of comprehensive
data on project implementation but experienced difficulties in producing quality reports on results.
Lack of baseline data was a major obstacle to monitoring implementation. The design of the
project involved project villages that were not identified in advance which, in turn, meant that no
survey-based baseline data could be collected during project preparation. Sets of data were
collected during implementation, but due to variations in the approaches these lacked
homogeneity. To overcome these problems, in 2006 the PMU/PMC agreed to carry out a
comprehensive retrospective analysis. In spring 2007, a project Impact Assessment (IA) was
carried out on a sample of 35 then-completed sub-projects.

The PMU compiled quarterly monitoring reports that measured a wide range of indicators for
project-related investments and activities. The PMC regularly surveyed CDWUUs to monitor
their performance in detail, enabling DRWS and the project to report on CDWUUs performance.




                                                  7

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by the PMC was a valuable source for decision
making processes and continuous monitoring of the progress of project implementation. For
example, the decisions on re-allocation of project funds and the selection of project sites for
supervision were made based on the developed M&E system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. There were no significant deviations or waivers from Bank safeguard policies and
procedures during project implementation.

Fiduciary. The internal control system had limitations, including weak segregation of duties,
incomplete recording of accounting transactions, lack of FM monitoring, and inadequate back-up
arrangements that led in some cases to data loss. These led to a qualified opinion on the project
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007. Audit
recommendations were implemented with substantial delays. In addition, the project was covered
by the country portfolio fiduciary review. In addition, Weak internal controls, poor capacity of
PMU staff and deviations from disbursement procedures were observed throughout the
implementation period. Many of these issues were addressed during project implementation, but
some remained despite project team efforts to increase central and regional PMU staff capacity.
Most of these issues have since been resolved in the course of preparation of the follow- up
Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(a) Transition arrangements.       The follow-on project, the Second Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (RWSSP-2) will ensure sustainability of the project outputs through continuous
technical assistance and support to the rural communities including those benefited from the
project. Adaptations in the design of the RWSSP-2 based on the experience gained during
implementation of the first project include:
    · Technical. Simple designs manageable by the CDWUUs and Ayil Okmotus (AOs) will
result in more efficient and durable schemes.
    · Institutional. While asset ownership will rest with the AO, a service delivery agreement
(SDA) between the AO and the CDWUU is more likely to deliver efficient services. Financial
commitment by the AO, especially in case of major breakdown in the system, and long-term
capital investment planning will improve the durability of the schemes. The DRWS may provide
technical solutions and asset creation oversight in the long-term. At the central level, DRWS has
been transferred to NALSG to ensure closer links with local self-governing bodies in rural areas.
    · Financial. By delegating service delivery responsibility to CDWUU, AO may approve a
tariff to ensure cost recovery for operation and maintenance but continue to be responsible for
service delivery by securing some republican and local budgets funding to "subsidize" the
provision of rural drinking water.

RWSSP-2 will also ensure completion of the works in few sub-projects that could not be
completed within the available financing for the project because the price increases in
construction materials increased cost of works.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation. The PMU will be in charge of continuous M&E of project
implementation. RWSSP-2 will strengthen its Management Information System (MIS) to include
a comprehensive database on village-level water systems and sanitation. The database will be
integrated with a Geographical Information System (GIS) to enhance access and readability,
which will improve planning and management of water supply and sanitation services. The M&E
results will be reflected in quarterly and annual progress reports.


                                                  8

(c) List of performance indicators. Some of the indicators used in RWSSP-1 have been modified
to make them more measurable. The new outcome indicators are the following:
     ·       Percentage of people with access to drinking water in the network (for at least 4 days
             a week /12 hrs a day) as a result of the project.
     ·       Percentage of households reporting distance to the nearest improved water source at
             500 meters or less.
     ·       Level of Operation and Maintenance cost recovery in utilities targeted by the project
             (percent)
     ·       Percentage of Sanitary Epidemiological Surveillance (SES) water quality tests that
             meet national standards for drinking water.
     ·       Rate of incidence of Water Supply & Sanitation-related illnesses (giardia and/or
             hepatitis A) in communities that participate in the project.

(d) Lessons incorporated in the arrangements for post-completion operation. Based on the
lessons learned, subproject selection and engineering design criteria have been improved to
ensure that subprojects are more sustainable and technically sound. To increase beneficiary
satisfaction levels, all second-phase subprojects will be designed to accommodate demands for
maintaining existing household connections or installing new ones.

(e) Future Impact Evaluation. Conducting an impact evaluation after three years of project
closing will be important to assess the sustainability of the project achievements. This evaluation
will be part of the MTR for RWSSP-2.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project's objective remains relevant and important to Kyrgyz economic and social
development. It is timely and appropriate for the current needs of the country's water and
wastewater sector, and consistent with the Bank's partnership strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic.
Successful project results have generated government interest and created demand among non-
RWSSP rural communities to extend project coverage as rapidly as possible. The project
approach with community participation remains generally valid, although project design would
have been improved by incorporating more DFID co-financing, excluding complex technical
solutions, and capturing accurate baseline data before implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Satisfactory. The project was generally successful in achieving its development objectives. The
details of the project's major outcomes and achievements are as follows:

(i) Improved access to potable water from water supply systems which the communities own,
operate, maintain and manage in a sustainable manner

Access and Quality of Water Services
·        As a result of the project, more than 340,500 people have now access to clean drinking
water.
·        Prior to their rehabilitation, 18 of the 35 villages surveyed had no water service at all,
while another 10 only provided a service to 21-40 percent of the population and another five
served 41-60 percent of the population. Since their rehabilitation, 32 villages are now providing




                                                   9

water to 81-100 percent of the population. 27 of them provide coverage to 100 percent of the
population.
·        The changes in availability of drinking water were assessed for both summer and winter,
which are climatically very different seasons, based on the net change (in days/week and
hours/day) in the availability of drinking water. The study shows that the net change has been
considerable with half the villages recording an increase of seven days/week in winter water
availability, and 60 percent of them saw the daily availability of water increase from between 16-
24 hours. These large increases are partly a reflection of the total absence of any water service in
some of the villages prior to the project.
·        The project has also contributed in increasing the cleanliness of water. The survey
showed that 60 percent of households rated the water much cleaner than previously, and another
34 percent rated it a little cleaner.
·        The distance to fetch water has also been considerably reduced because of the project. 80
percent of households have said that the distance to fetch water was now less or much less.

At the same time, additional construction works in three sub-projects (Korumdu, Temir, and
Chelpek) were stopped even the beneficiaries already paid their in-kind contribution. This is
because of the first loan has run of funds. These sub-projects are included in the follow up
project's investment program and these villages are planned to receive their water supply system
in the first year of the second project. There were also a number of cases (up to fifteen villages or
7 percent of covered villages) that, reportedly, have no adequate service provision after the
project completion. These cases are expected to be carefully reviewed during the follow-up
project implementation to identify corrective measures, if needed.

Creating a Community Based Model for Water Service Delivery
·        Through the project, a total of 173 CDWUUs covering 207 villages have been
established, legally registered, and are managing their own water supply systems. 59 of these
CDWUUs have been able to form larger networks averaging about 12 CDWUUs (five in total).
Through the networks, the CDWUUs are able to support one another, leverage access to services
through economies of scale, and improve their overall performance through sharing of experience
and resources.
·        The establishment of calonca (standpipe) committees has also been an effective
mechanism for increasing local accountability and effective tariff collection at the local level.
·        Tariff collection: Two thirds of CDWUU are covering more than 60 percent of their
budget with money from tariff collection (and half of these are covering over 80 percent of their
budget).
·        91 percent of breakdown cases were repaired by CDWUUs themselves within less than
20 days.

Enabling institutions that facilitate demand­responsiveness in the rural water supply sector
·        The project assisted the government with the transformation of a centrally managed,
institution, Kyrgyz Ayil Suu (KAS), which was responsible for operations and maintenance of
rural water systems. KAS has been replaced by a leaner and more decentralized institution, the
DRWS, which is a policy making and advisory body that is responsible to facilitate provision and
management of water services at the community level.

(ii) Improved hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family and
institutional levels in the rural areas.

Improving Village Health



                                                10

The DFID-funded Rural Hygiene and Sanitation Project (RHSP) was linked closely to RWSSP-1
to enhance health benefits by combining hygiene and sanitation with access to safe affordable
water. The RHSP worked with the Republican Centre for Health Promotion to train Village
Initiative Groups in 200 project villages, using the Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation
Transformation (PHAST) method of hygiene promotion, which improved villager hygiene
behavior and child health indicators

The RHSP worked with communities to improve 324 sanitation facilities in 186 villages in the
three oblasts. This was made up of new or rehabilitated toilets at 177 schools and 147 new toilets
at medical points. It also helped rehabilitate three banyas (public wash houses).

The RHSP worked with the CDWUUs, and the SES, which is responsible for monitoring and
regulating water quality. The RHSP developed and delivered a training package on water quality
monitoring as a component of RWSSP-1 training program for the CDWUUs that included the
importance of water treatment and monitoring, monitoring methods, and distribution of simple
monitoring equipment--Rapid Response Kits (RRKs), that enabled CDWUUs to register
significant change in turbidity and electrical conductivity (indicating a major intrusion of water
from external sources) and residual chlorine levels.

The RHSP facilitated other RWSSP-1 achievements, including the following:
    · Improved water quality: WSS rehabilitation reduced the percentage of water samples
         that failed to meet national standards--from 23 down to 9.0 percent--according to SES
         microbial inspections.
    · Improved hygiene: Most village stakeholders (households, schools and Village
         Ambulatory) noted increased cleanliness of houses, children, and schools due to greater
         availability of clean water. Two-thirds of children have adopted at least one improved
         hygiene practice (hand washing after toilet and before meals, etc).
    · Reduced illness: there was a six-fold decrease overall in reported incidence of stomach
         pain and diarrhea in children after WSS completion; SES tests showed that giardiasis
         incidence dropped from 31 to 13 percent.

3.3 Efficiency
The project economic analysis yields an economic NPV of US$10.8 million and an EIRR of 21.1
percent, higher than the expected 13.2 percent (all handpipe) to 14.4 percent (all standpipe) IRR
predicted at the project appraisal (see Annex 3 for more details).

Together, all three health-related benefits add up to only 32 percent of savings in the purchase of
potable water, which may support the project appraisal conjecture that these benefits should be
overlooked. Indeed, 91 percent of project benefits accrue to time savings and potable water
expenditure reductions.

The net present value of all current costs (O&M costs) accounts for only 11percent of the total
discounted cost, therefore, the initial investment is the key factor on the cost side.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project succeeded in improving the access and quality of water services, facilitated creating a
community based model for water service delivery, and enabled institutions to provide and



                                                  11

manage rural water supply. The project was also instrumental in improving water quality,
improving hygiene and reducing targeted illnesses. Further, there were also savings in time for
collecting water (the average time saved was 40 minutes/household/day) and reduction in
expenditures for potable water. Few reported drawbacks will be reviewed and measures will be
taken during the follow up project implementation.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: RWSSP-1 actively pursued a pro-poor approach for selecting villages during
each year of implementation (2003-06); criteria included communities willing to join the project,
weighted by poverty level, thereby assigning highest priority to villages with lower income.

Gender aspects: RWSSP-1 exemplified good practice for empowering communities and
increasing `voice' and reducing workloads among female villagers. The Impact Study reported
that 66 percent of women claimed their workload is now `much easier,' and 31 percent claimed it
was `somewhat easier. Likewise, RWSSP-1 demonstrated good practice in involving female
villagers in CDWUUs: in 67 of 102 villages, 60+ percent of Standpipe Leaders are female, and
each CDWUU Board includes two or three women.

Social development. In all selected villages, the communities have formed CDWUUs and
participated in sub-project designs; safe water is now available and hygiene behavior has
improved health indicators, including significantly reduced incidence of gastro-enteric diseases.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

    · The project, along with the ADB projects, was instrumental in transferring the
management of water supply systems from centralized state entity (KAS) to community-elected
bodies (CDWUUs) with the legal status of the CDWUUs defined under the Kyrgyz law. Thus the
new concept of CDWUU has already been institutionalized, and this has been accepted by
stakeholders and decision makers. This institutional approach was further strengthened based on
the lessons learnt.

A CDWUU was created in each of the 166 sub-projects (covering 203 villages) and registered as
a legal entity, accepting responsibility to rehabilitate or build a new water supply system, and
specialised staff trained and supported CDWUUs members to develop basic skills for running
water services.
    · At the central level, Government has recently transferred DRWS to NALSG, which will
require proper institutional measures to ensure that DRWS has an appropriate role within NALSG.
The fiduciary review of 2008 indicated unsatisfactory capacity of then implementing agency on
fiduciary (procurement and financial management) aspects of project implementation. However,
most of those deficiencies were addressed in the course of follow up project preparation. Under
RWSSP-1, a draft rural water supply sector strategy was developed and widely discussed within
Government. Although this strategy has yet to achieve agreement and approval among all
agencies, it has been incorporated in the design of RWSSP-2 to finalize this work. In light of
recent institutional changes, the strategy should be revised and discussions opened again with
Government to seek approval, which would increase sustainability of results of both projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None



                                                12

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The RWSSP-1 Impact Assessment Study involved primary data collection from a sample of 35
villages in the three project Oblasts--Issyk-Kul, Naryn, and Talas; secondary data was drawn
mainly from PMC Management Information System (MIS) database.

The Impact Study identified important Lessons for future projects and Impact Studies.

Future Drinking Water and Rural Development Projects

      · The impact of the RWSSP has been greatest in villages where the need for clean water
          is highest and the impact has been lowest in villages with a combination of the
          following factors present: a low need for water, a weak CDWUU and a poor Contractor.
      · Political interference in the choice of villages can result in villages where water is not a
          priority being chosen
      · Linking clean water provision to hygiene and sanitation promotion and awareness
          raising amongst villagers helps to maximize impact
      · The sustainability of the Community Based Model of water provision depends on
          building the capacity of the CDWUU and the decentralizing of its responsibilities and
          activities.
      · The involvement and support of the Ayil Okmotu is a key to influencing the
          performance of the CDWUU and the WSS, especially in light of the current limitations
          of the DRWS
      · Focusing on better Contractors and discouraging the poorer ones helps to improve the
          performance of Contractors as a group.
      · The sustainability and impact of the WSS appears to be higher in villages which have
          received one year's support after completion of construction of the WSS and where
          local partners are actively involved
      · The Community Based Approach employed by the RWSSP can have a positive impact
          in promoting Local Self Government in the village but projects must make a serious
          commitment to community mobilization (it cannot be just token).
      · Conducting an Impact Study can raise awareness amongst stakeholders about the
          impacts (both positive and negative)
      · The results of the Impact Study suggest that the Community Based Model of Water
          Delivery is a viable alternative in countries such as Kyrgyzstan, where the government
          lacks the resources
      · Use of water could be further increased if water connections were made to schools.

 Conducting Future Impact Assessments

      · Consulting all stakeholders, including donors, when planning the Study and taking their
          comments into account is vital.
      · Baseline data is essential to do a good Impact Study.
      · It is important to use a team of experienced enumerators who understand the Project
          and the mentality of rural people.
      · It is necessary to identify negative as well as positive impacts.
      · Case Studies should involve all the major stakeholders rather than just collecting
          information from one or two groups. The composition of Focus groups should consist
          of a representative sample of the stakeholder group.



                                                13

      · Sufficient time must be allocated for conducting an Impact Study, especially for the
          main tasks

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The follow-on operation, more years of donor involvement, and the ADB follow-on project,
reduces the risk that project outcomes will not be maintained, therefore the risk is moderate.
Continuous donor support will ensure continued technical and/ or financial assistance to
beneficiaries. Local authorities' capacity to support services provision is key to sustainability
according to the impact assessment and other RWSSP-1 experiences. Therefore, establishing
CDWUUs supports sustainability and RWSSP-2 will continue with established community
mobilization approaches. However, community involvement is not a panacea for sustainability;
affluent communities appear to have fee collections sufficient to ensure future services provision
but they represent only about 25 percent of implemented community schemes. A few cases of
reportedly inadequate service provision or bad construction quality will be reviewed and, if
needed, corrective measures will be taken in the follow up Second Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation project.

Furthermore, recent changes in budgetary resource allocations have increased the financial
independence of Ayil Okmotus, an important factor to ensure long-term sustainability of
rehabilitated water systems. Consultations with Government, local-level stakeholders, and donors
suggest that the AOs are best positioned to identify needs and budget, and seek national-level
funding through the annual budget process (similar to health and education sectors). This will
require building AO capacity to plan, budget, and monitor water provision implementation. Since
local planning effectiveness will depend in part on national-level support, a strong national body
is needed to support AOs to ensure effective supply of water. Thus, based on prevailing legal and
regulatory frameworks, the WSS service is likely to be sustainable over the long term.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The project's overall quality at entry received a Marginally Satisfactory rating from the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). This was based on Marginally Satisfactory ratings of Strategic
Relevance and Approach, Poverty and Social aspects, Policy and Institutional Aspects and
Implementation Arrangements; the other aspects were rated Satisfactory.

QAG remarked that the strong aspects of the project were: a) the project's CDD methodology
seems the right one, and its acceptance by Government a considerable achievement on the part of
the Bank, b) the cooperation with DFID is well worked out, and seemingly the only way in which
the Government would accept a heavy foreign TA component.

According to the QAG report, areas needing improvements were: a) Establishment of the PMU,
including the hiring of the financial management and procurement specialists and the
establishment of the MIS that had to be done prior the project began; b) The details of the CDD



                                                14

approach needed better definition; c) More emphasis had to be put on early training of
communities in all aspects of the project cycle, from identification to supervision and
maintenance, and activities to ensure that the poorest members of the community have access to
clean water; d) Attention had to be paid to improved operation and maintenance of completed
facilities by the communities; and e) More efforts to increase the level of cooperation with ADB.

Only during the project implementation, the Bank took into account the issues raised above,
including technical, financial, economic, and institutional issues, as well as procurement and
financial management. Major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in the
water and waste water social sector were considered and incorporated into the project design.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided the
technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design. The Bank
conducted analytical study along with the sector note. The Bank provided adequate resources in
terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The
project was consistent with the CAS and government priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank
had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

On the other hand, the Bank could have ensured greater harmonization with other donors,
particularly with ADB, and to a lesser extent, with DFID. The Bank had agreed with the DFID
that it would co-finance the project. However, the implementation arrangement was less than
satisfactory in the sense that the government considered the project and its activities as donor-
driven. Not much attention was paid to ensure greater involvement of the local self-governments.
The efforts of the Project Management Consultants (PMC) on increasing capacity of DRWS and
PMU were not successful due to high staff turnover in DRWS as well as their weak motivation.
There was also lack of communication between the PMC, from one side, and the PMU and
DRWS, from another.

In addition, some of the areas needing improvement as pointed out by the QAG contributed to
delay in project implementation although the task team has addressed many of these issues during
the course of the project. On the whole, given that not all the recommendations were fully
implemented, the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory.

Bank performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff
resources were allocated; the project was adequately and intensively supervised and closely
monitored. The task team prepared regular Aide-Memoires and held timely discussions with
Government and the PMU about project execution problems and remedies. Project
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated project performance on achieving
development objectives and managing project implementation. The task team monitored
safeguard and fiduciary compliances.

In November 2004, the Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR). Mission objectives were to
evaluate project performance against progress achieved toward development objectives and to
reassess their relevance in light of emerging project priorities and circumstances, and assess the
likelihood of achieving them



                                                15

The task team collaborated closely with ADB via joint supervision missions to share experience
and jointly addressing the cross cutting issues in implementation. Good working relationships
were also established with most of the rayon- and oblast-level administrations which had become
increasingly supportive as the impact of the project became apparent.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Even though there were some drawbacks in the Bank's performance at Quality at Entry, the task
team addressed these issues during implementation. The project team applied pro-active approach
in resolution of the impeding issues and in addressing QAG early concerns. Substantial efforts
were made to ensure greater collaboration in the sector with other involved IFIs. As a result,
overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The government was committed to increase water and sanitation coverage in rural areas and had
firmly endorsed the principles of: (i) cost recovery through user-fees; and (ii) community
participation, management and ownership of the water supply infrastructure. A principal
indication of government commitment was in the decree on KAS privatization that was approved
by the government on September 19, 2000. In preparation for this project, the government
decreed that KAS assets / equipment at local level were to be privatized and KAS to be fully
replaced by the already functional DRWS in the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources.
The Department was envisioned as a policy and advisory body at the national level, with
representation at the Oblast level. The budget sources and staff for DRWS were also specified.

During most of project implementation, Government remained committed to the water sector, but
then its focus shifted. As a result, Government fell short of finalizing and adopting the sector
strategy. However, Government officials and the Bank project team and cooperated fully and
continuously; the project suffered no counterpart funding problems because Government took
timely corrective measures and made appropriate budget provisions.

DRWS occasionally interfered in procedural issues, for example, payment of ineligible expenses,
and pushing for contractual issues in which the Department had no authority.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was managed by a small PMU, which was supported by the autonomous PMC
contracted and fully financed by DFID. The PMU consisted of a manager and a complement of
six professionals and five support staff, and was in charge of the administrative and financial
aspects of the project (overall coordination, financial management, and procurement). With the
help of the PMC, the PMU was able to carry out its job; however, the capacity of the PMU was a
major concern. Apart from the manager, other PMU staff were not pro-actively involved in
project implementation, leaving most technical design and reporting issues to the PMC. The
PMC helped the PMU/DRWS in all aspects of sub-project cycle ­ from selection, mobilization of
community, training of CDWUU, design of water systems, construction supervision, to post
construction technical assistance of CDWUU.



                                                16

The PMU conducted procurement in accordance with agreed procedures and the joint PMU
Procurement specialists had adequate experience and capacity to carry out project procurement.

Financial management arrangements established by the PMU were not satisfactory due to internal
control system limitations, including weak segregation of duties, incomplete recording of
accounting transactions, lack of FM monitoring, and inadequate backup arrangements. These led
to a qualified opinion on the project financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006
and December 31, 2007. Audit recommendations were implemented with substantial delays. The
project was also reviewed by the country portfolio fiduciary review. Although no fraud or
corruption practices were identified, weak internal controls, poor capacity of PMU staff and
deviations from disbursement procedures were observed. Most of these issues have since been
resolved in the course of preparation of the follow- up Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
project.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Borrower generally ensured compliance with covenants and agreements for achieving project
development objectives, but several missteps contributed to a rating of `moderately satisfactory.'
First, Government fell short of finalizing sector strategy development and approval and paid
insufficient attention to strengthening DRWS capacity; second, DRWS's attempted political
meddling in project management decisions; and third, PMU staff fiduciary capacity remained a
concern and was not addressed properly. Apart from the manager, other PMU staffs were not pro-
actively involved in project implementation, leaving most technical design and reporting issues to
the PMC. In light of the above, the overall performance of the Borrower was moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

  · Community participation: views and inputs should be collected prior to subproject
       selection and design. Community-based organizations should be formed and mobilized;
       intensive awareness campaigns should be carried out on subproject selection criteria and
       post-implementation requirements. In addition, subproject design should be compatible
       with community management capacity to maintain and operate the system.
  · In-kind community contributions are impractical. In-kind contributions of 15 percent,
       consisting of labor to contractors should be excluded from subproject eligibility criteria
       because this idea was found to be unworkable. It caused implementation delays, conflict
       with contractors, and resulted in poor quality of construction.
  · Communities need access to maintenance equipment. The CDWUUs had to rent
       equipment, which in many cases was unaffordable. Most communities are willing to
       procure equipment on installments and asked the project to help create a revolving fund so
       groups of closely located CDWUUs could buy equipment and repay the cost in
       installments.
    · A Community-based approach works well when people understand why they should
       come together to address common problems and why they pay and what they for. It took
       some time for the project to make people understand that they were not paying for water



                                                 17

       but for the services to bring water, clean it and make it safe. Likewise, in a community-
       based approach, when the people feel ownership of the system, they care more about the
       investments they have made.
    · The issue of tariffs should be raised at an early stage. In addition to the CDWUU, local
       partners including the AO, deputies, school and others should be involved in mobilizing
       for early tariff approval and timely collection. The CDWUU should also be encouraged to
       start tariff collection as soon as the WSS becomes operational: Otherwise, the community
       may think the water is free and be more reluctant to start paying for it. It should also not
       bow to pressure to reduce tariffs to levels which undermine the financial and economic
       viability of the water supply service.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The draft Implementation Report for Rural Water Supply and Sanitary Project was reviewed and
no specific comments were made

(b) Cofinanciers
DFID technical assistance was provided alongside the WB loan to support the GoKR in project
implementation. The project faced a number of challenges and has a mixed progress on various
outputs. However, there was a clear progress in delivering on the key objective of increasing
access of rural communities to clean drinking water. Despite the weak institutional framework
most of the rehabilitated WS schemes are expected to run sustainably due to the capacity of the
CDWUUs built under the Project and improved collaboration with Aiyl Okmotus. To maintain
provision of quality services by WSS, it is important that CDWUUs receive adequate and timely
support from the DRWS and local self-government bodies.
DFID welcomes the efforts in increasing coordination and joint working in the sector. Final years
of implementation saw the merger of the two project implementation units and joint annual
review processes that put harmonization and alignment into practice. In 2007 DFID supported the
DRWS in the development of the sector strategy. Finalization of this strategy is expected to guide
and further improve coordination in the sector.
(More comments are available in Annex 7)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA
After the Credit closed, some NGOs expressed concerns about the project in four areas: (i) not
enough consultation was done during the implementation of the project; (ii) poor quality of some
of the construction; (iii) some communities did not receive their water supply system even though
they paid their in-kind contribution [As explained earlier in the report, this was due the fact the
project ran out of funds and the plan to serve these communities once the second project becomes
effective]; and (iv) non-transparent processes with respect to sub-contracting. A fact finding
mission, staffed with people who never previously worked on the project, to look into these
concerns will be launched in late May-June, 2009. Follow up actions may be required after
management and Government review the mission's report.




                                                 18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                       Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
           Components                                                              Percentage of
                                          (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)          Appraisal

VILLAGE WATER
REHABILITATION SCHEMES                           16.25                20.58           126.62

RURAL HYGIENE AND
SANITATION                                        1.75                 5.744          328.00
IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
AND VILLAGE CAPACITY                              4.50                 6.57           146.00
BUILDING
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND SUPERVISION                                   1.50                 0.16           10.33

INCREMENTAL OPERATING
COST                                              0.55                 0.44           79.09


             Total Baseline Cost                 24.55                33.48           136.35

Physical Contingencies                            0.00                 0.00

Price Contingencies                               0.00                 0.00
              Total Project Costs                24.55                33.48           136.35
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                 0.00
      Total Financing Required                   24.55                33.48           136.35




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                     Type of      Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                            Cofinancing      (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)      millions)
Borrower                                                 3.31           3.195        96.22
UK: British Department for
International Development (DFID)                         6.25           12.31        196.96

International Development
Association (IDA)                                        15.00          18.72        119.87




4Increase is partly due to significant change in US$/UK£ exchange rate
5Most of the Borrower's financing (US$2.97 mln) represents granted tax exemptions


                                                    19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Village Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and Construction

166 water supply schemes (covering 203 villages) were completed, including:

    · 70 subprojects in Naryn covering 82 villages;
    · 58 subprojects in Issyk-Kul covering 67 villages;
    · 38 subprojects in Talas covering 54 villages.

As a result of the project, more than 340,500 people have now access to clean drinking water.
Prior to their rehabilitation, 18 of the 35 villages surveyed had no water service at all, while
another 10 only provided a service to 21-40 percent of the population and another five served 41-
60 percent of the population. Since their rehabilitation, 32 villages are now providing water to 81-
100 percent of the population. 27 of them provide coverage to 100 percent of the population.

The project has also contributed in increasing the cleanliness of water. The distance to fetch water
has also been considerably reduced because of the project.


Component II. Rural Hygiene Promotion and Sanitation Improvements
Under this component hygiene and sanitation education, renovation of sanitation facilities,
support to Sanitation and Epidemiological Services (SES) in Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Talas was
assumed, particularly, revision of water quality control methods. As well, under this component it
was projected to render assistance to the Republican Center for Health Promotion in capacity
building.

The DFID funded Rural Hygiene and Sanitation Project (RHSP) was linked closely to the
RWSSP to enhance health benefits by combining hygiene and sanitation with access to safe
affordable water.

(i) Hygiene promotion. The RHSP worked with the Republican Centre for Health Promotion to
train Village Initiative Groups using the Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation
(PHAST) Method hygiene promotion. In total PHAST training was delivered to 200 villages,
representing 165 water supply systems. Project trainers worked in villages to mobilize and train
groups of volunteers (Village Initiative Groups, VIGs) who then rolled out the training to their
fellow villagers. Training in villages, rather than in a central location, helped to increase the
confidence of the participants and to make it more relevant to local conditions.

The training materials were modified at the outset, and then throughout the project, to be more
appropriate for life in rural Kyrgyzstan. Working with the RCHP, UNFPA and the Department of
Veterinary Services, the PHAST materials have been modified for application to sexually
transmitted diseases and other routes of transmission such as animal borne diseases.

The RCHP, supported by RHSP, took responsibility for coordinating the PHAST training and
involvement of the Oblast Centres for Health Promotion (OCHPs). The sustainability of the
activities has been improved by developing the VIGs' role in the new Village Health Committees
(VHCs) and as local `hygiene champions'. The RCHP's role in coordinating the OCHPs'



                                                20

involvement, project trainers' transfer to the OCHPs at the end of project and the training given to
SES staff has also assisted sustainability.

The RHSP has supplied materials for the construction, by communities themselves, of safe
sanitation (i.e. VIP latrines or flush toilets), with hand-washing facilities. New toilets have been
built at 177 schools and 147 medical centers in the 200 project villages. Three banyas (public
wash houses) were rehabilitated.

Innovation Fund. The fund became an important tool for allowing communities to identify and
fund measures to improve hygiene. The majority (65%) of the grants have been awarded to VIGs,
mainly for hand washing facilities in schools, but also for other activities such as pediatric
examination and treatment. Other grants have been awarded to the RCHP, OCHPs, SES and
CDWUU networks. These have been used, amongst other things, to fund training, conferences,
hygiene campaigns, cooperation between CDWUUs, and PHAST interventions in other oblasts.
Importantly, the fund has also been able to support the development of materials to improve the
technical capacity of institutions, such as the creation of a helmintology and parasitology manual
and associated training for SES nationally.

(ii) Capacity building.

(a) Legal and regulations: RHSP reviewed all relevant laws, acts, decrees and regulations,
facilitated stakeholder workshops to help establish common ground and prepared appropriate
amendments to decrees 95 and 299 to clarify roles, responsibilities and reporting lines between
SES and RCHP.

(b) Technical/Operational competence: RHSP concentrated most effort on filling the required
staff positions, developing technical/organizational capacity using the principle of "learning by
doing" and on facilitating relationships with national and international bodies. The overarching
philosophy was to guide all capacity building by "evidence-based medicine", which seeks to
relate outputs to inputs; this should allow argument about the costs and benefits of various
activities.

(c) Curriculum development. With a specific OVI relating to development of the curriculum for
medical education, a significant effort was made in this area. RCHP have worked with RHSP in
reviewing curricula, debating options with representatives of various academies, developing
strategies and piloting development modules. This has assisted with capacity building of
individuals and also with building the networks and reputation for competence of RCHP.

(iii) Sanitation.

RHSP worked with communities to improve 324 sanitation facilities in 186 villages. This was
made up of new or rehabilitated toilets at 177 schools and 147 new toilets at medical points. It has
also helped rehabilitate three banyas (public wash houses).

The project worked closely with communities, SES and DFID to develop the policies and
processes used to carry out the required activities. The key features of the work carried out are as
follows:
     · Communities were able to select the sanitation facility design appropriate to them.
         Wooden VIP latrines were the preferred design for the sanitation facilities in most cases.
         This design was preferred because it reduced the construction burden on village workers,
         is an improvement relative to the existing simple pit latrines, is cost-effective and feasible


                                                  21

         for community members to replicate. The superstructure can also be moved easily once
         the pit is full.

    · The construction of the toilets used approximately 2,000 trees. A total of 6,000 young
         trees were purchased and provided to schools for planting to compensate for the wood
         used in the construction of the latrines.

(iv) Water Safety.

The fourth output of the RHSP was concerned with water quality monitoring for the newly
completed water supply schemes. This meant working with both the CDWUUs and the SES
which is responsible for surveillance and regulating water quality.

The RHSP developed and delivered a training package on water quality monitoring that formed
part of the RWSSP training program for the CDWUUs. The training included information on why
water treatment and monitoring are important and on how to monitor water quality. As part of the
training, the CDWUUs were provided with simple monitoring equipment. These Rapid Response
Kits (RRKs) enabled the CDWUUs to register significant change in turbidity and electrical
conductivity (an indication of a major intrusion of water from external sources) and the levels of
residual chlorine. This training was done after the schemes had been finished and shortly after the
RWSP had completed `Operation and Maintenance' training. All schemes that have been
completed have been provided with this training. They are given water quality monitoring
manuals, equipment and Water Safety Plans. This means that 47 CDWUUs have everything they
need to do the monitoring.

Component III. Project Implementation and Village Capacity Building.
Under the component it was projected to render assistance to villagers in establishment of
community- based drinking water users union (CDWUU), capacity building of the CDWUU to
operate and maintain piped water supply systems and sanitation facilities. Implementation of the
component has been completed from DFID grant proceeds.

A special charter for the overall operation of the CDWUUs, as legal bodies, was created and
distributed to all the newly created entities. Staffs were trained repeatedly throughout the
implementation period in order that they were sufficiently skilled in applying the charter. The
legislation was revised and amendments suggested to the DRWS for further action to be taken in
Parliament.

Following the selection of the villages to be involved in the project, the Consultant organised an
information campaign to disseminate the project rules and conditions. In parallel the training of
the democratically elected members of the CDWUU was started. Once the communities were
fully aware of the upfront collection of 5% of the cost of the WSS the consultants supported the
CDWUU in monitoring the achievement of this important phase. In parallel with the community
mobilisation, the consultant discussed with village members and CDWUU the preliminary layout
of the new WSS.

The representatives of the village were trained on procurement and construction issues. The
CDWUU chair was a member of the bid evaluation committee and actively participated in the
selection of the contractor. The implementation of the in kind 15% community contribution was
discussed with the community and plans were made to facilitate the cooperation with the
contractor.



                                                  22

A Socio-Economic Assessment (SEA) was carried out in each village. The aim of the SEA was to
evaluate the economic capacity needed to achieve the collection of the 5% upfront collection in
relation to the level of poverty and to the ongoing economic activities of the village. Conditions
of women and children were also studied in relation to their role in collecting water for the family.
During the impact assessment study, the benefits of these two categories of villagers were re-
assessed.

In each CDWUU the chairperson and accountant were trained to implement a self monitoring
programme, from the early setting up of the CDWUU up to the commissioning of the WSS and
collection of the water tariff. The reports of the self monitoring were analysed by the consultant
and discussed with the CDWUU board in order to identify revised planning and corrective
measures.

From the outset the principals of the OM had been strictly followed and CDWUUs were
established for every village which became part of the RWSSP. The CDWUU was formed
through democratic election by all adult members of a community and this had resulted in large
numbers of women representing the community. To ensure the CDWUUs were fully enabled, a
self monitoring programme was designed and implemented by the consultant. This worked well
and helped improve the capacity of many CDWUUs in technical and management areas. Highly
participative public assemblies were held for presentation, discussion and approval of the water
tariff.

Once the CDWUU had been formed and the necessary undertakings had been made by the
community, PMC engineers at Oblast and central level made full assessments of existing water
and sanitation infrastructure. In some cases no infrastructure existed and therefore surveys were
carried out for new sources and locations for reservoirs, chlorination systems and networks. In
addition to visual surveys, interviews with local village elders were carried in order to understand
how previous systems were operated and learn about any local problems such as flooding,
landslides and previous water quality problems.

Component IV: Consultant Services and Training
The component was aimed at funding local consultants and auditors who would render services in
project management and control. The outputs included:

The consultant carried out a training needs assessment (TNA) of the staff and developed a
detailed training programme. The consultant also worked with DRWS to revise and re-formulate
legislation over the course of the project. Several seminars and training sessions were conducted
and in particular on-the-job training was given during construction supervision. The consultant
assisted in the:
    · Preparation of preliminary designs in appropriate formats for submission to the
         Bank
    · Project re-design (in some cases) following community consultation
    · Mobilisation of 5% and 15% in-kind contribution
    · Detailed design
    · Procurement
    · Construction supervision

During the first three years of the implementation of the project the Operating Manual was
constantly revised and adapted to incorporate changes in policy, procedure and scope agreed
during review missions and in communication with donors.



                                                 23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.        The project has successfully achieved the main goal of increasing sustainable access to
          potable water supply in rural areas, while halving the incidence of waterborne related
          diseases, for a total of about 340,000 beneficiaries.

2.        The primary benefits of the project include:

              (a) Time savings arising from reduced time spent collecting water. They are likely to
              translate into increased time allocation to productive activities and hence increased
              household incomes.

              (b) The savings from reduced purchase of potable water from other sources (e.g.
              water vendors).

              (c) Increased household water consumption, together with improved drinking water
              quality, resulting in reduced medical expenditures and improved labor productivity.


3.        Other indirect benefits from the project include (as noted in the PAD):
              a) Increased capacity of the local communities to manage infrastructure services;
              b) Increased institutional capacity of DRWS; and
              c) Increased capacity for construction, operations and management of the local
                   private sector.


4.        The main costs related to increasing access to potable water supply in rural areas are:

              a) Costs of feasibility studies and construction works, of water production,
                   conveyance and distribution infrastructure.

              b) Costs of operations and management of the infrastructure mentioned above.


Methodology and main assumptions

5.        The main assumptions are described below:

              a) Benefits and costs have been projected over a 10-year horizon, corresponding to
                   the expected life of the main water supply installations. This is a (very)
                   conservative assumption since, for the standpipe systems, civil works and pipes
                   have an economic life of 20 years.

              b) The cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 12 percent, which is
                   estimated to be a proxy of Kyrgyz's opportunity cost o f capital.

              c) Time savings were estimated as the difference in water collection time between
                   the "without project" and the "with project" scenarios. The time savings were
                   valued at the hourly wage derived from the rural GDP per capita.6




6We assume that the rural GDP per capita is equal to 40 percent the GDP per capita nationwide which is an
appropriate supposition in this case; also, we don't account for unemployment because, unlike for minimum wages,
rate of unemployment is generally included in the GDP per capita.




                                                          24

                      d) All transfers including taxes and subsidies are excluded from the analysis.

                      e) The number of beneficiaries is constant over time, and the consumption of water
                               remains invariable even as water becomes more accessible and of an improved
                               quality in comparison to that purchased from vendors.

                      f)        The health-related economic benefits of the project were estimated using a
                               variant of the cost of illness approach that values current individual health
                               expenditures and hospital costs on waterborne diseases as well as related losses
                               in days of activity. We assume, following WHO research findings, that the
                               incidence of infectious diarrhea `with project' scenario is half its occurrence
                               `without project'.


The project economic analysis yields an economic NPV of US$10.8 million and an EIRR of 21.1
percent, higher than the expected 13.2 percent (all handpipe) to 14.4 percent (all standpipe) IRR
predicted at the project appraisal.

Together, all three health-related benefits only add up to 32 percent of savings in the purchase of
potable water, which in some way supports the conjecture during the project appraisal to overlook
these benefits. Indeed, most of the benefits of the project (91 percent) are credited to the savings
in time and the reduction in potable water expenditures.

The net present value of all current costs (O&M costs) accounts for only 11 percent of the total
discounted cost, therefore, the initial investment is the key factor on the cost side.


Ex-Post Economic Analysis
                                                             2002             2003           2004            2005           2006           2007           2008           2009           2010           2011           2012           2013

 Standpipe Investment                     US $           19,640,000

 Standpipe O&M                            US $                    0          225,894        239,447         253,814        269,043        285,186        302,297        320,435        339,661        360,040        381,643        404,541

 Borehole Investment                      US $            4,910,000

 Borehole O&M                             US $                    0          173,486        183,895         194,929        206,625        219,022        232,164        246,094        260,859        276,511        293,101        310,687

Total Costs                               US $           24,550,000          399,380        423,343         448,743        475,668        504,208        534,461        566,528        600,520        636,551        674,744        715,229

 Total annual water collection time w/o
 project                                  Hrs            45,990,000      45,990,000     45,990,000      45,990,000     45,990,000    45,990,000     45,990,000      45,990,000     45,990,000     45,990,000    45,990,000     45,990,000

 Total annual water collection time w/
 project                                  Hrs            12,775,000      12,775,000     12,775,000      12,775,000     12,775,000    12,775,000     12,775,000      12,775,000     12,775,000     12,775,000    12,775,000     12,775,000

Value of time saving                      US $            2,006,740        2,352,729      2,767,917       3,113,906      3,459,896      4,082,677      4,327,638      4,587,296      4,862,534      5,154,286      5,463,543      5,791,355

 Cost of potable water w/o project        US $            1,165,500        1,235,430      1,309,556       1,388,129      1,471,417      1,559,702      1,653,284      1,752,481      1,857,630      1,969,088      2,087,233      2,212,467

 Cost of potable water w/ project         US $                5,670            6,010          6,371           6,753          7,158          7,588          8,043          8,526          9,037          9,579         10,154         10,763

Water cost net savings                    US $            1,159,830        1,229,420      1,303,185       1,381,376      1,464,259      1,552,114      1,645,241      1,743,955      1,848,593      1,959,508      2,077,079      2,201,704

 Health sector costs w/o project          US $              289,065          306,409        324,793         344,281        364,938        386,834        410,044        434,647        460,726        488,369        517,671        548,732

 Health sector costs w/ project           US $              144,533          153,204        162,397         172,141        182,469        193,417        205,022        217,323        230,363        244,185        258,836        274,366

Healthcare sector costs avoided           US $              144,533          153,204        162,397         172,141        182,469        193,417        205,022        217,323        230,363        244,185        258,836        274,366

 Patient expenditures due to illness w/o
 project                                  US $              211,981          224,700        238,182         252,473        267,621        283,678        300,699        318,741        337,866        358,137        379,626        402,403

 Patient expenditures due to illness w/
 project                                  US $              105,991          112,350        119,091         126,236        133,811        141,839        150,350        159,371        168,933        179,069        189,813        201,202

Patient expenditure savings               US $              105,991          112,350        119,091         126,236        133,811        141,839        150,350        159,371        168,933        179,069        189,813        201,202

 Value of workdays lost w/o project       US $              175,246          205,461        241,719         271,934        302,149        356,535        377,927        400,603        424,639        450,118        477,125        505,752

 Value of workdays lost w/ project        US $               87,623          102,730        120,859         135,967        151,074        178,268        188,964        200,302        212,320        225,059        238,562        252,876
Value of avoided loss of workdays         US $               87,623          102,730        120,859         135,967        151,074        178,268        188,964        200,302        212,320        225,059        238,562        252,876


 Cash Flow                                US $          (21,045,284)       3,551,054      4,050,106       4,480,883      4,915,840      5,644,107      5,982,754      6,341,719      6,722,222      7,125,555      7,553,088      8,006,274
 NPV                                      US $     $10,787,911
 IRR                                      %                  21.1%




                                                                                             25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                        Title             Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending

Walter Stottman        Manager, Water and Sanitation
                       Program.                         WSP  Manager

Motoo Konishi          Water Sector Manager            ECSIE Manager
Takao Ikegami          Sr. Sanitary Engineer           ECSIE Sanitary Engineer
Kavita Sethi           Economist                       ECSIE Task Team Leader
Ben Verbeke            Engineer Consultant             ECSIE Water Engineer
Claudio Purificato     Engineer Consultant             ECSIE Water Engineer
Hermine De Soto        Sr. Social Scientist            ECSSD Social Scientist

Roque Ardon            Financial Management Specialist ECCU8 Financial Management
                                                             Specialist
Nirmala Saraswat       Environmental Engineer          ECSSD Safeguards Specialist
Natalia Charkova       Operations Officer              ECCKG Operations Officer
Asyl Undeland          Operations Officer              ECCKG Operations Officer
Erkin Sadykov          Operations Officer              ECCKG Operations Officer
Tamara Noel            Program Assistant                     Program Assistant
Daniyar Aitimbetov     Program Assistant               ECCKG Program Assistant
Nikolai Soubbotin      Sr. Counsel                     LEGEC Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai      Disbursement Officer            LOAFC Disbursement Officer

Peter Kolsky           Sr. Water and Sanitation         WSP  Water and Sanitation
                       Specialist                            Specialist

Supervision/ICR
                                                             Operations Officer /
Mirlan Aldayarov       Sr Urban Spec.                  ECSSD Task Team Leader (July
                                                             2006-October 2008)

Alexander E. Bakalian  Lead Water Resource Specialist  MNSSD Water and Sanitation
                                                             Engineer
Anna Cestari           Water Resources Spec.           ECSSD Engineer

Jonathan S. Kamkwalala Lead Financial Analyst          ECSSD Task Team Leader (as
                                                             of July 2006)
Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka
Lutalo                 Environmental Engr.             ECSSD Engineer

Claudio Purificato     Consultant                      LCSEN Engineer
Nargis Ryskulova       Operations Analyst              ECSSD Operations Officer




                                           26

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                            4.31
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                           65.79
  FY00                                 32                        88.05
  FY01                                 39                       180.25
  FY02                                 29                        89.58
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:        100                       427.98
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                   1                       14.59
  FY03                                 44                       159.06
  FY04                                 32                        87.19
  FY05                                 33                       133.58
  FY06                                 25                        99.90
  FY07                                 23                        75.27
  FY08                                 13                        18.60
  FY09                                   7                        0.00
                        Total:        178                       588.19




                                    27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Impact Assessment

Background

This section presents the findings of the Impact Assessment Study of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (RWSSP). The Proposal for the Study was drawn up in February 2007 and
modified as a result of feedback received from the World Bank and DFID. Agreement on the
methodology was finalized in April, and the field work done in May, 2007.

The study involved primary collection of data from a sample of 35 villages in the three Oblasts
where the RWSSP operates: Issyk-Kul, Naryn, and Talas. In addition, secondary data was also
drawn upon, mainly from the Project Management Consultants (PMC) Management Information
System (MIS) database.

Objectives and Methodology

The Study had four major objectives. They were to:

   · Assess the Impact of the RWSSP
   · Identify and quantify positive and negative impacts
   · Learn lessons for the future
   · Make recommendations for this and future projects

The Study assessed seven impacts, the first four were direct, and the other three indirect.

Summary of Findings

The main findings of the Study show that the RWSSP has resulted in many important positive
impacts, though there have also been some negative impacts and other areas where hoped-for
impacts have not been fully realized. The main ones are presented below.

   1. Access and Quality of Water Services

Positive

    · More people served: 118,589 more people are served than previously (and a considerably
        greater number now have a more reliable water service.)

    · More of the village is served: previously 39 percent of villagers had no functioning WSS;
        in 89 percent of the villages the WSS serves between 81-100 percent of the population

    · Improved service: reduced the average number of households sharing a Standpipe from
        64 to 12 and increased the availability of water to most households to 7 days a week and
        24 hours a day

    · Increased the cleanliness of water: 60 percent of households rated the water much
        cleaner than previously, another 34 percent - a little cleaner




                                                28

    · Reduced distance to fetch water: with 80 percent of households saying the distance to
        fetch water was now less or much less

Negative

   · Reduced service in a few villages: in 2.0 percent, the number of people served fell

   · Lost household connections: some households (especially in Issyk-Kul) lost household
        water connections

Mixed/Not fully achieved

   · Limited service in some villages: mainly villages with boreholes, due to the cost of
        electricity, water can be provided for a limited number of hours per day



                                                       Increase in population served
                                                                                               Served before
                                                                                               Served after

                   150000                                                                        148692



                   125000



                   100000

          le

            peopfo  75000
                                  64861
                  #
                                                  58527
                     50000



                     25000
                                          0                        2971312993
                                                          0
                                                                                    4408
                         0
                                                                                             12993           Served after
                            no service                                            0
                                              5-40%
                                                              41-60%                                      Served before
                                                                             61-80%
                                      Percent of population served (range %)             81-100%




   2. Creating a Community Based Model for Water Service Delivery

Positive
   · Increased the overall sustainability of the Community Drinking Water Users Union: The
        proportion of CDWUU rated as likely to be sustainable increased from 9.0 percent in
        2005 to 46 percent in 2007

   · Decentralized management by creating of Standpipe Communities that are responsible
        for care and maintenance of their Standpipe and collection of water tariffs

   · Improved tariff collection and financial sustainability of CDWUU: two-thirds of
        CDWUU now cover more than 60 percent of their budget with money from tariff
        collection (and half of these are covering over 80 percent of their budget)



                                                                     29

   · Achieved an acceptable level of repair and maintenance of WSS--most are repaired
       within a 20­day period

   · Raised community confidence in CDWUU: 74 percent of households are very confident
       or extremely confident in their CDWUU's ability to provide good water service

Negative
   · Level of breakdowns in some WSS is of concern: Almost a third of CDWUUs and
       Standpipe Leaders reported that their WSS was broken down between 1-20 days.
       However, several of these WSS were still quite new.

Mixed/not fully achieved
   · Low capacity and sustainability of a group of CDWUU: the proportion of CDWUUs
       rated as unlikely to be sustainable increased from 9.0 percent in 2005 to 17 percent in
       2007. One third of CDWUUs are not even covering half of their budget.


                Level of sustainability of 23 subprojects in Issyk-Kul,
                                   Naryn and Talas (2005)

      90%

      80%

      70%

      60%

      50%
                                                                                  1
      40%

      30%

      20%

      10%

       0%
                Unlikely to sustain    May sustain with     Likely to sustain
                                       additional support




                                               30

                   Level of Sustainability of 35 subprojects in Issyk-Kul, Naryn
                                          and Talas (2007)


         50%

         45%

         40%

         35%

         30%

         25%                                                                          1

         20%

         15%

         10%

          5%

          0%
                  Unlikely to sustain     May sustain with      Likely to sustain
                                         additional support




   3. Improving Village Health

Positive
   · Improved water quality: microbial inspection by SES showed the proportion of water
        samples below national standards fell from 23 to 9.0 percent after WSS were rehabilitated,

   · Improved hygiene: Most village stakeholders (households, schools, and Village
        Ambulatory) said the cleanliness of their houses, children and schools had improved as a
        result of increased availability of clean water. Two-thirds of children have adopted at
        least one improved hygiene practice (usually hand washing after toilet and before meals).

   · Reduced illness: the overall reported incidence of stomach pain and diarrhea in children
        fell on average six fold after the completion of the WSS. Tests by SES showed that the
        incidence of giardiasis dropped from 31 to 13 percent

Negative
    · Increased illness in a small group of villages: In 9.0 percent of villages, the level of
        stomach pain/diarrhea increased. This is likely due to multiple factors (see full report).

Mixed/not fully realized
    · Mixed results on acute intestinal infection: The reasons for this are multiple, and may not
        be directly related to the WSS (see full report).

    · Low proportion of CDWUU chlorinating water: 86 percent of CDWUUs were not
        chlorinating their water regularly for a variety of reasons (availability and cost of
        chlorine, dislike of taste, etc.)




                                                 31

                                                   Proportion of HH and children adopting improved hygiene practices - HH-Schools-VAs - All Oblasts


  se                               35,0%

    ursae                                            30,3%                                                                                  1,117 answers from all responders
                                   30,0%
         m
          eneig                    25,0%

               hy
                 ngi 20,0%
                 optda                                                                         15,2%

                      sre          15,0%
                                                                                                                            11,1%                    11,4%

                         ond 10,0%                                                                                                                                   8,9%
                         pser                                                                                                                                                      6,5%
                                                                                                             5,2%
                             e
                              thfo  5,0%                            4,3%         4,1%
                                                                                                                                        3,0%


                                  % 0,0%
                                                   Washing      Drinking safe  Drinking   Construction Collection of Taking bath, Covering food    Keeping         Keeping     Using gloves
                                                  hands with     water from  boiled water of VIP toilet,  garbage in    using banya and water,       house,        colonkas       during
                                                  soap (after    standpipe.               keeping clean   special pit      more     water storage   school,     clean. We do lumbing, etc
                                                  defecation,                             (chlorinating)                 frequently              children clean allow lifestock
                                                 before eating,                           and using the                                                          drink water
                                                 after feeding                            toilets, taking                                                       from colonca.
                                                 the livestock,                            toilet away                                                            We do not
                                                      ets).                                  from the                                                          wash near the
                                                 Installation of                          water sources                                                            colonkas
                                                  washstand.                                (irrigation
                                                  Brash teeth                               canals)




                                                                        Incidence of stomach pain in children (before and after)


                                                250

                                                                  # cases 12 mon before WSS                                               Overall average
                                                                  # cases 12 mon after WSS
                                                                                                                                            reduction 86%
                                                200




                                                150


                                       casesfo
                                              oN
                                                100




                                                 50




                                                  0
                                                       1    2   3  4   5  6  7   8    9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35

                                                                                                                     villages




                                   4. Improving Capacity of the DRWS and Private Sector Contractors

                                   a) DRWS

Positive



                                                                                                            32

           · Assisted the DRWS to clarify its future role and direction: a long-term Strategy for the
              Rural Water Supply Sector drawn up with some external assistance

           · Provided some support to CDWUU at national level such as lobbying with national
              government on tax and legislative issues affecting CDWUU

Negative
           · Little support to CDWUU at field level: 88 percent of CDWUU reported little or no
              direct support from the DRWS

High turnover of personnel/little evidence of change in capacity: an almost total change of
personnel at DRWS at national level during the life of the RWSSP has meant a lack of continuity
and direction. Although due primarily to factors outside the RWSSP's control, this factor has
depleted project impact.


                                    Rating of support given by the DRWS to CDWUU


           60%        57%

                                                                support of the DRWS to CDWUU


           50%




           40%



   WUU                                  31%

      CD   30%
        of
          %


           20%



                                                              11%

           10%



                                                                                         0%        0%
            0%
                    not at all       very little           moderately                   good    excellent

                                                             rating




           b) Contractors

Positive
           · Increased availability of work/contracts: The RWSSP provided regular work for
              contractors that was attractive due to contract size and payment reliability. Before
              RWSSP, most contractors lacked sufficient work but during RWSSP, contractors
              increased their staff by an average of 32 persons per company and 80 percent invested
              modestly in additional (mainly second-hand) equipment

           · Changes in some work practices: e.g., better contractors are adopting a volume of work
              schedule to plan their work.




                                                           33

   · Improved performance: the length of average delay in contract completion fell from 140
        days in 2003, to zero in 2006, and the number of defects at State Commission of WSS
        fell from an average of 14/WSS in 2004 to 7 in 2006

Mixed/not fully realized
   · Quality of work still mixed; some contractors are still not producing quality work.



                                               4.d Number of Defects in WSS at State Commission

                               45

                               40         Number of sub projects
                                          started
                               35
                                          Average number of defects
                               30         /sub project

                   reb         25
                      m
                       Nu      20

                               15

                               10

                                5

                                0
                                      2002                2003            2004          2005         2006

                                                                         Years




                                             4.e Average Time Delay in Completion of Contracts
                               160


                               140


                               120


                               100
                         re
                           mb   80

                             Nu
                                60


                                40


                                20


                                0
                                        2003                      2004             2005            2006

                                                                         Years




   5. Improvement in Village Livelihoods

Positive
   · Increased employment: CDWUUs created a total of 418 paid jobs, making them the
        second biggest employer in villages, after schools.

   · Led to the creation of new businesses: estimates vary from 350-525 (depending on
        source) new water-related businesses have been created (mainly baths).

   · Saved Time: The average household reported saving 40 minutes/day in collecting water,
        while 90 percent of schools reported children's attendance in school has improved since
        the completion of the WSS (the children are the main ones to fetch water for the family)




                                                                34

                                      Distribution by CDWUU of new jobs created


                   Number of new
                   jobs


                       1-2     3-4


                       5-6     >6                                         17%




                                                                                       %
                                                                                      14




                          63%
                                                                                  6%




   6. Participation in Local Self Government

Positive
   · Emergence of CDWUU Network at rayon level; many CDWUU's are members.

   · Good support to CDWUU from many Ayil Okmotu: 45 percent of CDWUU rated
        support from Ayil Okmotu as `good' or `excellent.'

   · Adoption of Good Governance Practices with all sources (Households, Ayil Okmotu and
        Schools) report that the majority of CDWUU are applying a range of good governance
        practices in their management and operation

   · Increased involvement with LSG: in 71 percent of CDWUUs, one or more Board
        members are involved in other LSG. Some have been elected to community posts (e.g.
        village deputy)

Mixed
   · Poor CDWUU accountability at some levels: 34 percent of CDWUUs are not reporting
        regularly on their performance to their members/village

   · Some CDWUU not getting adequate support from partners, with 28 percent of CDWUU
        say they have little or no support from their Ayil Okmotu




                                                    35

                                                                                   Rating of support from Ayil Okmotu


                                      60%

                                                                                                                      54%
                                             rating of support of AO by CDWUU

                                             rating of support of AO by AO
                                      50%




        AOro                          40%

                                                                                                                34%
            UU

              CDW 30%
                                                                                             26%   26%
              agesll
                    vifo              20%
                        %                   17%


                                                                      11%                                                    11%   11%

                                      10%
                                                                                6%
                                                    3%


                                       0%
                                             not at all                very little           Moderately           Good       Excellent

                                                                                              rating




                                                    Level of involvement of CDWUU board members in LSG (rated by CDWUU and AO)


                                      12



                                                                                               10
                                      10



                                                                                                                    8
                                       8

                                                                                                                                7


                         CDWUU                                            6
                              of       6



                                number          4
                                       4




                                       2




                                       0
                                              0                          1                     2                   3           >=4

                                                                        number of CDWUU members involved in LSG bodies


   7. Gender

Positive

   · Decreased workload for women: 66 percent of women report that their workload is
        `much easier,' and 31 percent report `a little easier.'

   · Women are represented at some levels of CDWUU: in 67 of the 102 villages, 60 percent
        or more of the Standpipe Leaders are women, and on average, there are 2 or 3 women
        members of the CDWUU Board.


                                                                                               36

Mixed/not fully achieved

   · Modest participation of women in a third of the villages where the women make up 20
      percent or less of Standpipe Leaders

   · Few women reaching leadership positions: there are only a few female CDWUU
      Chairpersons, despite generally good performance among those who achieved that role.



                            Proportion of female participation in the CDWUU




                            more than three women                only men

                                    9%                          14%

       three women

              23%




                                                                               23%

                                                                               one woman




                                          31%

                                          two women




                                                    37

                                                     Rating in change of women workload


           70%
                                                                                                    66%
                          rating in change of women workaload by HH
                                                                                                          60%
           60%            rating in change of women workaload by KC




           50%




  s        40%
   ge
     llaiv                                                                       31%
          %30%
                                                                                           26%



           20%




           10%                                                          9%


                                                  3%             3%
                  0%    0%               0%
            0%
                 much worse             a little worse          unchanged        a little easier    much easier

                                                             Rating of change


 Attribution

 The changes identified above are not solely due to the RWSSP. Attribution in certain areas must
 be shared with other organizations, in particular with the Rural Hygiene and Sanitation Project
 and the Swiss Red Cross. Both of these organizations have done much to increase community
 awareness of hygiene and sanitation issues and how they affect villagers' health.

 In addition, the changes have been strongly dependent on support from partners, especially from
 those Ayil Okmotu who have been involved and supported the sub-projects in their villages

Conclusions

The RWSSP has resulted in many important positive impacts. The main ones are:

              · Significantly improving the Water Service and access to clean drinking water for a
                  large number of people in rural villages in northern Kyrgyzstan (Issyk-Kul, Naryn
                  and Talas)

              · Making good progress on creating a Community Based Model for delivering Water,
                  Sanitation and Hygiene that is likely to be sustainable

              · Improving levels of Health, Sanitation and Hygiene in a large number of villages and
                  amongst a substantial proportion of the population in the three oblasts

              · Changing community attitudes towards village water problems, and increasing their
                  willingness to be involved in rehabilitating their WSS and then taking responsibility
                  to manage and run the WSS

              · Developing the capacity of private sector Contractors to build WSS to specifications,
                  on time and to a reasonable quality level



                                                                          38

        · Improving village livelihoods by creating employment opportunities both in the
             CDWUU, and also in other water related businesses started as a result of the
             increased availability of clean water

        · Increasing gender equality by reducing             the workload of many women and
              encouraging their involvement in the running and management of the WSS and the
              CDWUU

        · Increasing the participation of villages in other Local Self Governance initiatives
             and organizations

In addition, the RWSSP has contributed positively to Kyrgyzstan's Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs)

The RWSSP has also had some negative impacts. The main ones are:

        · The loss and reduction of household connections in quite a number of villages

        · The limited level of water service in some of the villages whose WSS used a
             borehole (due to the high cost of electricity needed to run the borehole pump)

        · The mixed performance of a small number of WSS which is due to a combination
             of problems: technical, poor build quality and the weak organization/capacity of
             the CDWUU

Finally, some important impacts have not been fully realized: The main ones are:

        · A considerable number of CDWUU are still not sustainable, and it is likely that a
             small group may eventually fail

        · The impact on village health would probably have been higher if all CDWUU whose
             WSS had a chlorination chamber chlorinated their water regularly.

        · The building of the capacity of the DRWS has only made limited progress. So has
             any agreement on its future role.

        · While the involvement of women in the CDWUU has been considerable, their
             involvement at the higher level (e.g. being elected as CDWUU chairperson) is still
             quite limited.

Lessons Learnt

 The Impact Study has identified some important lessons, both for future projects as well as for
 future Impact Studies.

Lessons for Future Drinking Water and Rural Development Projects

     · The impact of the RWSSP has been greatest in villages where the need for clean water
          is highest.




                                                39

   · Political interference in the choice of villages can result in villages where water is not a
       priority being chosen
   · Linking clean water provision to hygiene and sanitation promotion and awareness
       raising amongst villagers helps to maximize impact
   · Projects must make a serious commitment to community mobilization (it cannot be just
       token).
   · The sustainability of the Community Based Model of water provision depends on
       building the capacity of the CDWUU and the decentralizing of its responsibilities and
       activities.
   · The involvement and support of the Ayil Okmotu is also key to influencing the
       performance of the CDWUU and the WSS, especially in light of the current limitations
       of the DRWS
   · Focusing on better Contractors and discouraging the poorer ones helps to improve the
       performance of Contractors as a group.
   · The sustainability of CDWUU and the overall impact of the WSS appears to be higher
       in villages where local partners are actively involved
   · The impact of the RWSSP appears to be lowest in villages a combination of factors are
       present: a low need for water, a weak CDWUU and a poor Contractor
   · The sustainability and impact of the WSS appears to be higher in villages which have
       received one year's support after completion of construction of the WSS
   · The Community Based Approach employed by the RWSSP can have a positive impact in
       promoting Local Self Government in the village.
   · Conducting an Impact Study can raise awareness amongst stakeholders about the
       impacts (both positive and negative)
   · The results of the Impact Study suggest that the Community Based Model of Water
       Delivery is a viable alternative in countries such as Kyrgyzstan, where the government
       lacks the resources
   · Coverage of water provision could be further increased if water connections were made
       to schools.


Lessons for Conducting Future Impact Assessments

   · Consulting all stakeholders, including donors, when planning the Study and taking their
       comments into account is vital.
   · Baseline data is essential to do a good Impact Study.
   · It is important to use a team of experienced enumerators who understand the Project
       and the mentality of rural people.
   · The process of conducting an Impact Study can increase the understanding and
       awareness of all major stakeholders about the impact of the Project.
   · It is necessary to identify negative as well as positive impacts.
   · Case Studies should involve all the major stakeholders rather than just collecting
       information from one or two groups.
   · The composition of Focus groups should          consist of a representative sample of the
       stakeholder group.
   · More information needs to be collected on gender equality in order to get a more
       accurate picture of the impact in this important area
   · Sufficient time must be allocated for conducting an Impact Study, especially for the
       main tasks



                                              40

 Recommendations

 The following recommendations are made to increase the positive impacts and minimize the
 negative ones. They these are made for RWSSP (which is coming to an end) and for any future
 drinking water Projects.

 The RWSSP

 1. Complete the construction of the those WSS yet to be finished and ensure the one
     year's defects liability is enforced

 2. Ensure the CDWUU and Standpipe Leaders are directly involved in the handover of
     the WSS. This is essential to strengthen their feeling of ownership and responsibility for
     the WSS

 3. See that all CDWUU in the RWSSP whose WSS are completed in 2007 have one year's
     support to help them organize tariff collection, establish operation and maintenance
     procedures and systems, and to further strengthen the CDWUU capacity. Some of the
     poorer CDWUUs may need support for longer than this.

 4. Concentrate support efforts on pre-2007 CDWUU and WSS on those that have the
     most problems and are the least sustainable. The aim should be to build their capacity so
     that they become sustainable

 5. Encourage SES and others to investigate and address the issue of limited use of
     chlorination chambers and chlorination of the WSS water

 6. Encourage the development of the CDWUU Network, especially building its capacity
     and developing links with partners

 7. Encourage the DRWS to develop its strategic role and its capacity to develop the
     drinking water sector in Kyrgyzstan. This includes lobbying on relevant legislation,
     attracting investment in the sector etc


Future Drinking Water Projects

 1. To maximize the impact on the rural population, any future Projects should include a
     hygiene and sanitation component. It should be an integral part of the Project rather than
     a separate Project (and certainly not a separate Project with a different time frame to the
     Water Project).

 2. The Project Proposal must include an assessment of the current levels of drinking
     water provision as well as needs in the Project Area. These must be done for each Oblast
     to ensure that their differing situations are understood and taken into account. The level of
     service provision planned by the Project in each Oblast should take this into account.

 3. It is essential that Projects make a serious commitment to the Community Based
     Approach if they wish to ensure full village involvement and increase a sense of
     ownership in the WSS. This means a willingness to devote the necessary resources to


                                                41

   community mobilization and capacity building. This will help maximize the sustainability
   of the WSS and also the overall return on the financial investment made by Project donors

4. Encourage the building of strong links between the CDWUU and local partners.
   Encourage CDWUUs to have local partners (such as the Ayil Okmotu) on the CDWUU
   Board (possibly in an advisory capacity) and also having relevant village institutions
   (especially the school) as well as the Standpipe Communities represented.

5. Take steps to ensure that political interference in the selection of villages to be involved
   in the Project is minimized. If this is not done, the most needy and motivated may not get
   chosen. This will reduce the overall impact of the Project. One way is to agree objective
   selection criteria (based on need, willingness of the village etc) and rate/score villages on
   these.

6. Weigh up the pros and cons of gravity feed and borehole WSS. This should take into
   account not just the initial capital cost, but also the running costs. Otherwise, villages may
   find they can only afford to provide a limited water service (restricted number of
   hours/day)

7. Make efforts to increase the coverage of the WSS (and their overall impact) by
    including water connections to village institutions, especially the schools

8. Find effective ways to build the capacity of the DRWS more and encourage it to grow
    and develop its strategic and coordinating role. However, progress on this will depend
    heavily on the commitment the DRWS shows towards achieving these objectives.

9. Monitor the performance of Contractors against strict criteria and develop a list of
    approved contractors. Only those performing to the Projects standards should be allowed
    to join the approved list and tender again after their first contract. This will help ensure the
    quality of the WSS built (and their sustainability), and also enhance the development of the
    Private Contractor sector.

10. Ensure the Project proposal includes a provision for doing an Impact Study as part of
    its monitoring and evaluation. Involve all the major stakeholders, and when planning it,
    take on board the lessons learnt from this Study.

11. Encourage the participation of the Ayil Okmotu: their involvement and support are key
    to the success and sustainability of the sub projects




                                               42

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                  43

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                                      Attachment to the Final Report on RWSSP-1


                                        PMU Final Report
                          On the first «Rural Water and Sanitation Project»
                                     Prepared by the Kyrgyz Republic

   Total project cost:                               US$24.5 million (planned)
   World Bank credit:                                US$15 million (planned)
   Financial terms:                                  0.75% for 40 years, 10-year grace period
   Grant of the UK Department for                    US$6.25 million (planned)
   International Development:

   Government co-financing:                          US$3.3 million (planned)
   Date of singing:                                  February 12, 2002
   Effectiveness date:                               April 26, 2002
   Project completion date:                          October 31, 2007
   Implementing agency:                              Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
                                                     Processing Industry of the KR
   Withdrawn as of December 31, 2008:
                 Out of IDA funds:                   US$17,987,725.59
               Out of the GoK funds:                  US$3,190,798
                                                     - of which: GoK co-financing ­ US$45,443;
                                                      VAT-exempt supplies ­ US$2,974,356 and
                                                     CDWUU ­ US$170,999

Project Description:
      The project is aimed at providing access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene
improvements, improvement of rural water supply and sanitation systems in Issyk-Kul, Naryn and
Talas oblasts. It was projected that the project beneficiaries will be 250 villages with the
population of more than 369 thousand people. The first project actually completed 166 sub-
projects covering 203 villages with the population of 340.5 thousand people.

      The project implementing agency was the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Processing Industry of the Kyrgyz Republic (MAWRPI).
      The Project Management Unit (PMU) was established under the RWSD for effective
project management, administration and coordination. The Steering Council on Water Supply and
Sanitation under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic was established by Instruction 365-r
of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic dated September 20, 2000 for the purpose of
interdepartmental coordination of operations, project monitoring and control. Since the beginning
of project implementation two meetings of this Steering Council and four meetings of the State
Commission of the Kyrgyz Republic on Foreign Investments and Economic Assistance were held
to discuss the progress in project implementation. Besides, the project implementation issue was
reviewed at the meetings of profile committees of the Jogorku Kenesh and Parliamentarian
hearings.
      At International Consulting Company ­ Carl Bro (Denmark) worked under the project
technical assistance. The company's terms of reference included the provision of general advisory


                                                44

services on project management. This company was financed by the grant funds of the UK
Department for International Development (DfID). On the annual basis the project consultants
jointly with state administrations of the oblasts of the republic identified a preliminary list of
villages for conducting water system repairs and construction. The consultation company worked
on drafting project documents necessary for rehabilitation of water supply systems in villages.

The project consisted of the following components:
      1. Component "Village Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and Construction".
         Under the component reconstruction and construction of about 200 water supply systems
were envisaged in three oblasts of the country.
      2. Component "Rural Hygiene Promotion and Sanitation Improvements" (US$1.75 million
from DfID grant funds).
       Under this component hygiene and sanitation education, renovation of sanitation facilities,
 support to Sanitation and Epidemiological Services (SES) in Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Talas was
 provided, particularly, revision of water quality control methods. As well, under this component
 the assistance was provided to the Republican Center for Health Promotion in institutional
 capacity building.
      3. Component "Project Implementation and Village Capacity Building" (US$4.5 million
from DfID grant funds).
      Under the component the assistance was rendered to villagers to establish a community-
based drinking water users union (CDWUU), as well as in capacity building of the CDWUU to
operate and maintain piped water supply systems and sanitation facilities.
      4. Component "Project Management and Control" (US$1.5 million).
      The component was aimed at funding local consultants and auditors who rendered services
in project management and control. No counterpart funding of the KR government was envisaged
to co-finance the project.
      5. Component "Incremental Operating Costs" (US$0.46 million).
      The component funding was allocated for PMU operating expenses, including
administration costs, PMU staff salary and other operational expenses of the Project. Financing
under the component was carried out in the following proportion: 90% - from IDA loan proceeds
and 10% - co-financing of the Government of the republic.

Implementation Outputs
      For effective utilization of funds, on initiative of the Ministry of Finance of the KR, special
accounts have been opened in the Naryn, Issyk-Kul and Talas branches of the JSCB "Kyrgyzstan"
for accumulate the initial 5% contribution of the CDWUU ( letter ­ notification 15-33/1495 of
the JSCB "Kyrgyzstan" on opening the accounts dated May 29, 2003). The control over the use of
these accounts was placed on the corresponding oblast Rural Water Supply Departments.
      Each year the project consultants jointly with state administrations of Issyk-Kul, Talas and
Naryn oblasts identified a preliminary list of villages, where water supply systems were to be
rehabilitated and constructed.
      In total 172 CDWUU have been established under the project (in Issyk-Kul oblast ­ 62, in
Naryn oblast ­ 71, in Talas oblast ­ 39). All CDWUU have been registered with the Ministry of
Justice of the Kyrgyz Republic and have opened settlements accounts in commercial banks.
      Since April of 2002 international project management consultants worked on preparation of
project documents necessary for rehabilitation of village water supply system. The list and the
costs of facilities were to be approved by the World Bank.
       The contribution of the CDWUU to participate in the project was 25% of the total cost of
construction works under the project, of which:




                                                  45

        · 5% of the costs in cash was the initial contribution as a guarantee of participation of the
CDWUU in the project;
        · 15% - an in-kind contribution during construction;
        · 5% - repayment of credit funds during 7 years, including a 4-year grace period, in the
national currency, interest-free, the currency risk was to be covered by the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic.
       Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic  478 as of June 29, 2004 approved
the procedure of disbursement and repayment of the credit funds under the project in the form of a
tripartite agreement among the CDWUU, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Processing Industry of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic
against the guarantee of local state administrations, local self-governments and aiyl okmotu.
       In all sub-projects the work on development of construction documents were started only
after the collection of the 5% contribution was completed. In parallel the population was involved
in civil works under subprojects as the 15% in-kind contribution of the CDWUU.
        In 2005, to cover the largest number of villages, the project reallocated the funds among the
categories.


          From the beginning of the project implementation 166 schemes (covering 203 villages)
have been completed in the total amount of 733.7 mln Som, including:
    · 70 subprojects in Naryn for the total amount of 326,9 mln Som ­ 82 villages;
    · 58 subprojects in Issyk-Kul for the total amount of 255,3 mln Som -67 villages;
    · 38 subprojects in Talas for the total amount of 151,4 mln Som ­ 54 villages

         Construction works under 3 subprojects covering 4 villages in Issyk-Kul oblast have been
identified as to be rolled over to the new second project in 2009.
         Certain problems have been identified under the completed subprojects, such as the
Chelpek subproject in Issyk-Kul oblast covering 3 villages (Chelpek, Burmassuu and Tashkiya);
and the Yntymak subproject covering 6 villages (Yntymak, Madaniyat, Koo-Tash, Kyzyl-
Oktyabr, Tash-Kuduk, Urmaral) related to water intake facilities, well output and water network
leakages.

Evaluation of the project goals, design, implementation, and implementation
experience
All key activities of the project were implemented by international companies, except for
construction works. Probably, it was appropriate to attract international experts in such a scale.
Local specialists, employees of the PMU and RWSD worked together with international
specialists.
The in-kind (non-cash) participation of communities is not appropriate. The community
contributions in the form of labor, which is 15% of the contract value, should be excluded from
the list of project selection criteria, as this idea was founds untenable. The in-kind contributions
resulted in implementation delays, disputes with contractors and the unsatisfactory quality of
construction works.
The need for the household connections should be taken into account. One of the most frequent
complaints received from the communities participating in RWSSP-1 was related to household
connections to the earlier existing water supply systems. This is especially relevant in relation to
some rayons of Issyk-Kul oblast, where local population in engaged in seasonal tourism-related
activities.




                                                   46

         Evaluation and comparison of the achieved results compared to the projected
         plans
         The project implementation by components is summarized in the table below.


                 Table 1. Implementation by components


 Name of the            Planned scope of works                    Project achievements                     Notes
    project
  component
I. Village      Construction of about 200 rural water     The works were implemented by a            The key
    water       supply schemes covering 250 villages      project management consultant from the     problems were
    supply                                                Karl Bro company (Denmark).                related to
    systems                                            1.1. The investment plan consisted of 169     deficiencies in
    rehabilitat                                             subprojects covering 207 villages, of    preparation of
    ion and                                                 which 5 subprojects covered 13           subproject
    constructi                                              villages, which require adjustment       designs, increase
    on                                                      works and should be included in the      in prices for
    (US$16.2                                                implementation plan of the second        construction
    5                                                       project (in Isykk-Kul oblast ­ Temir     materials, works.
    million).                                               subproject (2 villages), Korumdy,
                                                            Chelpek (3 villages), Birlik; in Tala
                                                            oblast ­ Yntymak subproject (6
                                                            villages)).
                                                       1.2. There are also outstanding liabilities
                                                            on guarantee payments of completed
                                                            projects, which will be financed from
                                                            the second project.
                                                       1.3. Sustainability of rural water supply
                                                            systems of the CDWUU. The project
                                                            prepared    and    implemented       the
                                                            methodology      of    a    systematic
                                                            evaluation of subprojects sustainability
                                                            based on the institutional, technical
                                                            and organizational sustainability of the
                                                            CDWUU. The prepared evaluation
                                                            methodology      is    also     applied
                                                            successfully by the ADB project. In
                                                            future, when establishing a GIS-bases
                                                            monitoring system, this methodology
                                                            would     be    probably    used     for
                                                            monitoring purposes.
                                                       1.4. The     RWSD       notes    that     the
                                                            establishment of CDWUU networks
                                                            and associations helps to monitor
                                                            CDWUU problems.

II. Rural       Subcomponent : The rural hygiene                                                     For item 2.4 The
    hygiene     promotion program in rayons of the     2.1. The works under this component were      analysis
    promotio    three oblasts. Implementation of this       implemented by the WS Atkins             conducted by the
    n and       hygiene promotion program guarantees        company (United Kingdom) under the       DSSES noted the
    sanitation  maximizing    potential  benefits  for      project Rural Hygiene and Sanitation     disadvantages of
    improve     health from the WB water supply             Promotion, which was accountable to      express water
    ment        project.                                    the Ministry of Health of the KR.        test kit, such as



                                                        47

  Name of the          Planned scope of works                         Project achievements                    Notes
     project
   component
    (US$1.75   Subcomponent B: Capacity building in       2.2. On Subcomponent B: The Republican        consumable
    million)   the   Republican      Health    Promotion       Health Promotion Center has been         materials and
               Center.     The     Republican      Health      established and is operational.          reagents ­ it is
               Promotion Center will be directly          2.3. On Subcomponent : the activities         difficult to buy
               accountable to the Ministry of Health.          were implemented in selected villages    them at prices
               It will act as a resource and training          of the three oblasts of the Rural        affordable for
               center and will develop materials,              Supply and Sanitation Project. Limited   CDWUUs.
               methods to promote a health life style          resources have been allocated to invest
               and guidelines.                                 in initiative groups, schools and FAPs.
               Subcomponent C: Improvement of             2.4. On Subcomponent D: express water
               sanitary and technical facilities in            test kits have been procured for pilot
               villages (school and household toilets,         CDWUUs and training has been
               washstands). This activity will be              provided under coordination of the
               aimed at encouraging local population           Republican DSSES of the Ministry of
               to improve their household sanitary and         Health of the KR.
               technical     facilities,   demonstrating
               benefits from the approved facilities at
               schools and health facilities. It also
               assumed capacity building in rural
               areas, so that sanitary facilities are
               improved to the level desired by
               owners of individual houses.
               Subcomponent D: Introduction of an
               effective and efficient system to protect
               water quality, using the approaches of
               laboratory and sanitary supervision.
               This activity is aimed at conducting the
               work     with      the    Sanitary    and
               Epidemiological      Service    (SES)  to
               improve the methods of drinking water
               quality    control     and     procedures,
               notwithstanding which the quality of
               water is still not up to the standard.
III. Project   This component finances international      3.1. The funds were allocated to finance
     implemen  and local consultants, who will provide         international     and    local   project
     tation    assistance in (i) implementing control          management consultants (PMC).
     support   over the work of the consultant on
     (US$1.50  project implementation; (ii) considering
     million)  and approving subproject proposals;
               (iii) maintaining project accounts in
               accordance with the IDA requirements
               to financial management; (iv) resolving
               environmental issues; (v) preparing
               monitoring and evaluation reports; and
               (vi) audit.
IV. Institutio This component will finance the            4.1. The funds have been mainly allocated     According to the
     nal       management contractor to implement              to finance activities of Component 1,    RWSD'
     capacity  Component 1 and ensuring technical              rather limited resources have been       evaluation,
     building  assistance and activities aimed at              used for capacity building of the        notwithstanding
     (US$4.50  community development to improve                RWSD,       training   for  construction a number of
     million)  the   community's       ability  to  plan,      contractors.                             implemented
               implement, operate and maintain water                                                    activities to train
               supply and sanitary facilities in an                                                     the RWSD staff,


                                                           48

Name of the            Planned scope of works                      Project achievements                 Notes
   project
 component
               effective and sustainable manner. As                                               there was no
               well as building capacity of the RWSD,                                             smooth
               development, establishment and usage                                               transformation in
               of the monitoring and evaluation                                                   project
               system.                                                                            implementation.

V. Increment   This     component      will     finance 5.1. The funds were allocated for the PMU
   al          incremental operating costs of the            costs.
   operating   PMU, which include financing of the
   costs       administrative      support,      office
   (US$0.63    equipment,     spare      parts,    and
   million).   communication costs, other operating
               costs and project audit.




        Evaluation of Borrower's activities in project implementation
            The key difficulty in the work of the RWSD under the MAWRPI of the KR, was lack of
            PMCs cooperation with local authorities, established CDWUU, lack of funds for the material
            and technical basis for maintenance of rehabilitated or newly constructed village water supply
            schemes. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in coordination with the project donors
            amended the Regulation on the RWSD ­ the second project will be implemented under the
            National Agency on Local Self-Governments of the KR. Also, alongside with other
            amendments in the design of the second project, it is projected to allocate funds for
            establishment of the technical and material base of CDWUU associations.

        Evaluation of Bank's activities in project implementation
            On the whole, the Implementing Agency and the RWSD have been provided with effective
            and timely assistance in project implementation by the team leader and WE specialists and
            the WN country office.

        Proposals on development of the future project
            Based on the lessons learned from the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, the WB
            team and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic agreed on a number of changes for the next
            second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The experience accumulated when
            implementing the first project will serve as a good basis for the new project.




                                                         49

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Following the GoKR and WB request, DFID provided grants for technical assistance alongside
the WB loan. DFID TA was an integral part of the RWSSP, which played a crucial role in
achieving the development objective. Two TA projects were supporting the RWSSP in the areas
of project management support (contracts management, capacity building support, technical
supervision), sanitation provision and health promotion.

The role of the DFID funded Project Management Consultant was assisting the Department of
Rural Water Supply (DRWS) to consolidate and further develop a new approach to rural water
supply as well as building capacity within DRWS and local government to promote and manage
future programmes in the sector without external Technical Assistance.

The RWSSP project was implemented with participation of Kyrgyz Government agencies which
included MAWRPI, DRWS, AO, Rayon Akims and Oblast Governors as well as international
consultants and NGOs. All stakeholders had a key role in initiating and facilitating the
development process. In addition to Government agencies, the private sector played an important
part at all stages of planning, construction, operations and management. At the village level
implementation was based on an approach of community participation so that any relevant
decision was taken together with the representatives of the villages during public meetings.

In each of the sub-projects, a Community Drinking Water Users Union (CDWUU) was created
and registered as a legal entity undertaking the responsibility to rehabilitate or build a new water
supply system. To this end the members of the CDWUUs were trained and supported by
specialised staff in developing basic knowledge to run water services. Sanitation provision and
health promotion was carried out by the DFID funded Rural Hygiene and Sanitation Project. The
water component of the project was carried out under the Ministry of Agriculture whilst the
sanitation component was carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Health.

The delivery of the water supplies has been judged likely or probably sustainable in over 80% of
the schemes because these CDWUUs are well along the way to securing at least operational
viability. They collect user fees and ensure that small repairs and maintenance are carried out.
There is an arrangement between CDWUUs and Aiyl Okmotus, through the payment of taxes
from the former to the later. This continues to hold the Aiyl Okmotu's interest and support.
However longer term financial costs of replacing the assets is not being catered for - and it is
something that a motivated DRWS would be concerned about. The other 20% of CDWUUs will
require operational subsidies, which can only come through annual Aiyl Okmotus allocations
from the Republican budget. Hence there is an urgent need in the next phase to pay attention to
the roles and responsibilities of the Aiyl Okmotus and CDWUUs. The Department has recently
been placed within the National Agency for Local Self Governance, which now has the mandate
for rural water supplies and is very willing to take on this function.

Due to the improved donor harmonisation efforts between the key donors, coordination and joint
working in the sector has improved significantly. There is a number of important outputs of such
efforts, which include the development of the draft sector strategy (DFID funded), which is
expected to streamline activities under "one sector ­ one strategy" approach. Another output is
the merger of the two Project implementation Units into one Joint PMU. This led to increased
collaboration between sector specialists and improved exchange of lessons learned and best
practices. All these changes are expected to have a positive impact on sector development.

More detailed assessment of the project implementation can be found in the final project reports
(RWSSP, RHSP) available at DFID-Kyrgyzstan.




                                                  50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Reports

   · Project Implementation Plan

   · Project Appraisal Document for Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Water and Sanitation Project,
       dated November 8, 2001 (Report No: 23139-KG)

   · Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   · Project Progress Reports.

   · Project Appraisal Document for Kyrgyz Republic: Second Rural Water Supply and
       Sanitation Project, dated January 13, 2008 (Report No: 46943-KG)

   · Preparation Aide Memoires for the preparation missions of the Second Rural
       Water Supply and Sanitation Project (May-September 2008).

   · Borrower's Evaluation Report dated April 17, 2009

Technical Reports

   · Water Code of the Kyrgyz Republic (Law No. 8, published on January 12, 2005);
   · Law of Local State Administrations and Local Self-Governments (Law No. 99,
       published on May 29, 2008)
   · Baseline Survey Report
   · Draft of Long Term Strategy for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector in
       the Kyrgyz Republic, January 21, 2008
   · Impact Assessment Study of the RWSSP, June 2007
   · Asian Development Bank's Report and Recommendation of the President to the
       Board of Directors for the Proposed Supplimentary Asian Development Fund
       Grant for the Kyrgyz Republic: Community Based Infrastructure Services Sector
       Project (Asian Development Bank Project No. 31197, September 2008)




*including electronic files




                                              51

Map IBRD No. 36804




                      52

