Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16601
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2954-MOR)
May 20, 1997
Natural Resources and Envir-onment Division
Maghreb and Iran Departnent
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
Appraisal year average (1987)   US$ =8,0 DH
Official Exchange Rates (DH per US$ - Annual averages)
1988          1 US$ =        8.21 DH
1989          1 US$ =        8.49 DH
1990           1 US$ =       8.24 DH
1991           1 US$ =       8.71 DH
1992          1 US$ =        8.54 DH
1993           1 US$ =       9.30 DH
1994           1 USS  =      9.20 DH
1995           1 US$  =      854 DH
1996           1 US$ =       8 71 DH
At closing date February 1997    1 US$ =        9 15 DH
KAV Loan
1992           I DM   =      5.47 DH
1993           I DM  =       5.64 DH
1994           1 DM   =      5,68 DH
1995          1 DM           5.97 DH
1996           1 DM   =      6.10 DH
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Until 1995:    January I - December 31
Since 1996:   July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AN)D ACRONYMS
WUA       Water Users Association
CCSP      Comite de Coordination et de Sivi dc/ l'rojet
Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
CMV       Centre de Mise en 11aleur
Agricultural Development Center
CT        Centre c/e Travauix
Extension Center
DAHA    Direction des Amnnagemenis H&dro-Agricoles
Irrigation Infrastructure Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Continued)
DPA       Direction Provinciale de I Agriculture
Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
DPAE    Direction de la Planification et des Affaires Economiques
Planning and Economic Affairs Directorate
KfW       Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau
MAMVA Ministere de I 'Agriculture et de la Mise en Valeur Agricole
Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development
NEF       Notice d'Enlretien et de Fonctionnement
Operation and Maintenance Handbook
ORMVA Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
Regional Agency for Agricultural Development (Irrigation)
PMH       Petite et Moyenne Hydrotnliqute
Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
PMH2    Second Projet de Petite et Movenne Hydraulique
2nd Small and Medium Scale Irrigation Project
SR       Service de RMhabilitation
Rehabilitation Service
Vice President  Kemal Dervi            Division Chief:  Mark D. Wilson
Director:      Daniel Ritchie          Task Manager:  John Cole/Van Tuu NgLi),'cn
This document hag a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . ................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   ..................I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES  ......................  1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES  ........................  2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ......................  9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  .................................  10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE   ....................................  11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE   ................................
G. ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL OUTCOME  .........................  11
H. FUTURE OPERATION   .....................................   12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT   ....................................  12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES  ................................   15
Table  1: Summary of Assessments  ...............................  15
Table  2: Related Bank Loans/Credits  ..............................  17
Table  3: Project Timetable  ....................................  19
Table  4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ...                 .....  19
Table  5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .....................  20
Table  6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .........................  21
Table  7: Studies Included in Project ...............................  21
Table  8: A: Project Costs .....................................  22
B: Project Financing   ..................................  22
Table  9: Economic Costs and Benefits  .............................  23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  ...............................  24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .. ............... 25
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .............................  25
Table 13: Bank Resources:  Missions ...............................  26



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-M6moire (in French)  .........                  ....................  27
Annex A: Project Costs (in French) . ........................... 37
Annex B: Economic Analysis (in French) .........                  ...............  42
Annex C: Monitoring-Evaluation (in French) .......                 ...............  58
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR ................................. 62
C. Map: Location of SMSI Schemes



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2954-MOR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Small and
Medium Scale Irrigation Project (SMSI 2) in Morocco for which Loan 2954-MOR in the amount
of US$ 23 million equivalent was signed on January 27, 1989 and made effective on June 16,
1989.
The World Bank loan was closed on 31 December, 1996, that is two years after the
scheduled date. On April 15, 1997, US$ 4.7 million have been cancelled from the loan at the
borrower's request. Total disbursements reached US$ 18.1 million and US$ 0.2 million were
cancelled at loan closing. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW); it is currently expected that the entire KfW loan amount (DM 21.5 million
i.e. approximately US$ 11.8 million) will be disbursed by the time of its closing date (December
31, 1997).
The ICR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperation Program (FAO-CP) on
behalf of the National Resources, Water and Environment Division (MN1NE) of the World Bank.
The preparation of this ICR was begun during the FAO/CP mission to Morocco from February
13 to 28, 1997. The report is based inter alia,on material gathered from the project files,
supervision reports, as well as on findings from field investigations and discussions with
representatives of the World Bank, the KfW and the Ministry of Agriculture (Minisl/;re dce
I 'agriculture et de la mise en valeur agricole - MAMVA) who were involved in the project. The
borrower's contribution to this report included the timely provision of a progress report, the
assembly of a limited number of data on the project's economic impact, and participation in field
trips. The borrower's contribution has been inserted as Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2954-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Second Small and Medium Scale Irrigation Project (SMSI 2) was conceived, just
as its predecessor, as part of a long-term program to rehabilitate approximately 250,000 ha of
SMSI schemes over a period of 20 years in order to reduce poverty and better satisfy the
Kingdom's food requirements. The project's principal objectives were to: (a) rehabilitate
approximately 120 traditionally irrigated schemes over a total area of 32,000 ha, and this included
9 spate irrigation schemes of 8,000 ha; (b) set up 7 mechanical repair brigades for spate irrigation
schemes; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity for managing SMSI programs at both central and
regional levels. Total cost for this five-year project was estimated to be US$ 44.9 million. The
World Bank was to provide a loan of US$ 23 million, German aid (KfW) US$11.8 and the
Government of Morocco the remaining US$ 10.1 (7.2 million of which would have been drawn
from taxes and duties as well as financial contribution from water users). The project was
appraised in April 30, 1987, approved by the World Bank Board of Directors in June 1988 and
became effective in June 1989. The project was extended by two years and closed in December
1996. On April 15, 1997, at the borrower's request, US$ 4.7 million have been cancelled from the
loan. Disbursements totalled US$ 18.1 million, leaving US$ 0.2 million which were cancelled.
Outcome of Project Implementation
Selection of schemes and feasibility studies: By and large, the project's principal
objective of reinforcing a systematic approach to the rehabilitation of SMSI schemes was
achieved. MAMVA's central and provincial services have increased their efficiency in
rehabilitating traditionally irrigated schemes, from the identification and selection stages all the
way to the construction and transfer of works to the users. The selection procedure and
preparation phase, involving five sequential stages, led to lengthy and costly studies because
insufficient account had been taken of the fact that the targeted schemes had been cultivated and
irrigated for generations and that the required works were really quite simple. Credit must be given
for the recognition at preparation of the need to involve users as of the studies phase, allowing
them to have a say in the choice of technical solutions. MAMVA technical agents and the
consulting firms had some trouble in implementing this participatory approach because they
themselves were not well versed in this participatory approach and because the users had not really
1i



grasped the point of the exercise. Nevertheless, as the project gradually took off, progress was
made and the users' sense of ownership over the works was consolidated.
Rehabilitation works: On the project's scheduled closing date (December 31, 1996) it had
achieved 80% (i.e. 25 150 ha) of its surface area goal and on December 31, 1997 will achieve 90%
(28 070 ha) when ongoing works will be completed and when KfW's loan will be closed. The
works largely concentrated on those perennial and seasonal schemes over 100 ha because few
small-scale schemes met the selection criteria. It was decided, also, to rehabilitate only 4 spate
irrigation schemes owing to the high cost and low return involved. Renovation works overran the
scheduled timetable for a number of reasons: the length of the studies, interruption of works so as
not to interfere with crop cultivation, failure of some contractors, and floods in certain wadis.
Given that the initial timetable was probably over-optimistic anyway, it must be pointed out that
the delay in works only had a relative effect on the end results and ultimately even helped users to
foster a better sense of ownership over the works. The cost for renovating seasonal and perennial
irrigation schemes turned out to be 10% less than forecast. This welcome result, and the fact that
the quality of works was generally satisfactory, goes to show that the number of Moroccan
contractors capable of qualified work on SMSI schemes is sufficient to warrant competition in
tendering.
Other components: The equipment for the seven mechanical repair brigades to renovate spate
irrigation schemes in the southern provinces was delivered with a delay varying from one to
three years. Their disappointing performance led a World Bank/KfW supervision mission to
recommend that a system be designed to optimize their operations program, and an expertise for
this was procured at the end of 1995, but never started because of lengthy local procedures. This
study should first of all sort out the problem of how to divide up the tasks to be allocated to the
DPAs, ORMVAs and to private companies on the basis of service efficiency. The program for the
purchase of vehicles and office equipment was accomplished but overran the budget, and training
was provided for 154 engineers but not for farmers yet.
The Water Users' Associations (WUAs): The SAR rightly highlighted the importance of
grouping users together as of the selection phase. However, the establishment of legally
recognized Irrigation Water Users Associations could not begin until May 1992 when the decree
for the implementation of the law on WUAs was published in the Official Gazette. It was only then
that they could be converted into associations with legal standing. There are currently 73 WUAs
within the 39 schemes involved in the project, but the overall number is growing as more and more
users put in a request for the rehabilitation of their schemes. Users are thus shedding their doubts
as regards the opportunity of the WUAs. Generally speaking, however, the WLJAs, once
established, have not quite engaged in the corporate activities expected of them. General meetings
are not held, the board's decisions are not put down in writing, and the amount of annual water
charges not always set, etc. If, as is the case, the O&M of renovated schemes has so far not run
into any particular problem, that is because the practices of traditional associations have continued
to work even after the works were completed. This means that the users have not understood
what is demanded of them, and that is that they must (a) formalize the management of this
traditional association by progressively incorporating the legal framework required by the law and
iii



(b) systematize the O&M of schemes so as to ensure the sustainability of government investments.
This problem, which had not been identified at preparation, fortunately came to light in the course
of the project and the WUAs are now beginning to receive assistance. This support will be
bolstered by a pilot training program aimed at technical agents and WUAS representatives which
will soon be launched with KfW's assistance and funding. The project also assisted in the
production of instructions handbooks (Notices d'entretien7 et defonctionneniemi - NEF) which will
help the WVTAs of two pilots schemes in getting themselves ready to deal with the kind of
problems they will encounter in the future.
Agricultural development: The bulk of the renovation work on schemes has only recently been
completed and farmers have not had the time to substantially modify their production system.
Nevertheless, there are indications that intensification is beginning and farmers say that, once they
can be sure of a permanent water supply, they are ready to develop cash crops and make more use
of inputs. This trend was only to be expected since farmers on most SMSI schemes have always
had to save on water and, water being so rare and precious, it is only natural that they treat any
additional resource with great care. The extent of intensification will depend on each farmer's
technical knowledge and his cost/benefit assessment of the major crops. Thus any advice local
technical services can provide farmers on choice of crops, technical packages, marketing and
processing of products etc. can only be for the good and lead to better profits. Those schemes that
come under the scope of Agricultural Development Centers (CMV) will be more advantaged in
this respect than the other schemes, because Extension Centres (CT) do not have the means to
deal with all the issues brought up by the farmers.
Monitoring and evaluation: Monitoring of the physical components of the renovation program
was carried out satisfactorily and the bi-annual reports of the Project Coordination and Monitoring
Unit (CCSP) provided regular information on the execution of the various phases. But on the
social and economic aspects, numerous problems are encountered in implementing the system for
evaluating the impact of SMSI 2 led a supervision mission to redefine and simplify it. To date, four
of the five selected schemes have managed to transmit data to the CCSP. This is an encouraging
start but the difficulties that the CTs are facing in collecting the data must not be underestimated.
Monitoring of the WUAs entails data collection from all the schemes and would be a relatively
simple exercise. Instead, the evaluation of the rehabilitation program's impact on agricultural
development and farmers' income calls for specific surveys on a representative sample of schemes.
The two should thus be conducted as separate exercises.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The analysis of the difficulties encountered in the early stages of the first project SMSI
1 was very useful for the preparation of project SMSI 2 and led to the drawing up of realistic
objectives. The project also benefited from the fact that MAMVA technical agents had already
worked in the previous project. Thus, an experienced team of staff played a fundamental role in
obtaining good results. The law on WJUAs was only promulgated in December 1990 and its
implementation decree in May 1992, that is nearly three years after the loan became effective. This
delay certainly hampered the project's work with the associations.
iv



Sustainability
The sustainability of the rehabilitation of seasonal and perennial irrigation schemes
rests on three conditions which have been or are likely to be fulfilled. First, the works have
generally been of an acceptable standard and respond to the real needs of the users who are
increasing their involvement in the choice of technical solution. Second, farmers' income level
should not stand in the way of good maintenance of the infrastructure, and their long-standing
respect for the value of water will act as a further incentive. Third, thanks to assistance they have
begun to receive and which is set to increase, the WUAs should be able to progressively supersede
traditional associations in carrying out O&M in a regular and systematic way. On the contrary, the
investments in spate irrigation schemes are not likely to be sustainable. The high cost of the first
rehabilitation works led the project to put a stop to this component. The management of the
mechanical repair brigades is currently beset by problems.
World Bank and Borrower Performance
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was well prepared, with
lessons drawn from the previous project used to good effect, but greater account should have been
taken of the fact that the schemes to be rehabilitated had been cultivated for a long time. The
project should also have been more thorough in preparing the spate irrigation components.
Supervision missions were regularly carried out and helped project staff solve a number of
technical, administrative and financial problems, all of which was much appreciated in Morocco.
The missions could have dealt with the issues of monitoring and evaluation and of the mechanical
repair brigades management earlier and more insistently. Borrower performance can likewise be
judged satisfactory. MAMVA made sure the staff who had worked on project SMSI carried on
working for Project SMSI 2 and gradually even reinforced it. Despite severe budgetary
constraints, MAMVA managed to allocate adequate funds to the project although with serious
delays during the last four years. There were certain weaknesses in performance, however, such as
delays in the payment of some contractors, low level of disbursement for World Bank and KfW's
loans, difficulties in evaluating the economic impact of the project, the linited resources available
to the CTs, weaknesses of the MAMVA support services.
Economic Rate of Return: At appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estinated to
be 20%. Present estimates do not diverge from the appraisal ones. The ERR for the entirety of the
perennial and seasonal schemes is estimated to be 23%. If the costs of the spate irrigation
component (14.6% of the total project cost) are included in the analysis, without taking into
account its related benefits since those benefits are low and difficult to estimate, the ERR ( 15%) is
still very satisfactory.
Assessment of Overall Outcome
Taken as a whole, the project's outcome can be considered satisfactory. The principal
objectives were largely achieved. At project final closing, about 90% (28,070 ha) have been
rehabilitated out of a total of 32,000 ha initially determined. The experience MAMVA's central
v



and regional services gained in small and medium scale irrigation schemes was substantial. Several
consulting firms and contractors have similarly gained experience, as the project progressed, and
learnt how to collaborate with the users of schemes to be rehabilitated. The smaller spate irrigation
component did not achieve good results in terms of economic returns and sustainability and
consequently has been reduced during implementation. Rehabilitation efforts were concentrated on
the more productive perennial and seasonal schemes over 100 ha. As a result, the project as a
whole reached the objective of physical works, increased agricultural production, reduction of
poverty and development of side activities (livestock, small agro-industries). The positive overall
assessment is borne out by the project's economic rate of return which reaches 23% for all the
rehabilitated perennial and seasonal schemes and 15% if the rehabilitated spate irrigation
component is included.
Future Operation
The project is to continue throughout 1997 with the assistance and financing of KfW.
This supplementary year will be used to complete ongoing works, bringing the total rehabilitated
schemes to 28,000 ha, and to conduct a pilot training program aimed at MAMVA technical agents
and WUAS members as a precursor to what should ultimately be a national program. The long-
term rehabilitation program of SMSI schemes will be continued as far as Government resources
will allow. The support of donors such as the World Bank and KfW would be a useful
contribution.
Key Lessons Learned
Small and medium scale irrigation schemes provide an enormous potential for the
development of agricultural production in Morocco. Participatory approach through the WUA
system is essential to the success of SMSI projects and must be replicated in other countries. The
continuation of the long-term program for the rehabilitation of traditional schemes should take into
account the following key lessons:
(a) studies should be kept simple so as to reduce their cost and duration although the
time required to enter into dialogue and cooperate with users should respect their pace
in thinking things out and coming to a decision;
(b) the studies phase should be used to identify the issues concerning the WUAs' legal
status and management with the user community;
(c) local and regional agricultural services should be involved in the sub-projects at the
studies phase;
(d) the role of the WUAs' "7th board member"' should be clearly outlined;
The 7th board member comes from MAMVA and represents the Ministry in the WUA's board whereas the six
other board members are elected by the Users.
vi



(e) tenders for studies and works should be organized for groups of small projects in
order to attract a greater number of contractors;
(f) a net distinction should be made between monitoring of associations on all schemes
and the evaluation of agricultural production and farmers' income on a sample of
representative schemes;
(g) improving the quality of the support and assistance provided for farmers by the
MAMVA's regional entities; and
(h) continuity in the management of the project, at both central and regional levels,
should be ensured.
Vii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2954-MOR)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The Second Small and Medium  Scale Irrigation Project (SMSI 2) was
conceived, just as the first one, as part of a long-term program to rehabilitate
approximately 250,000 ha of SMSI schemes over a period of 20 years. The program's
objectives are to fight poverty and better satisfy the Kingdom's food requirements. The
restoration of small irrigation networks spread out throughout the nation would increase
the revenue of a large number of small farmers and, at the same time, play a larger role in
satisfying the food needs of neighboring urban areas. In order to meet these objectives, the
systematic approach used in the first phase has been continued and reinforced. The
approach seeks to: (a) set up Irrigation Water Users' Associations (Associations
d'usagers des eauix agricoles - WUA) to be in charge of O&M and of recovering the
investment cost pertaining to users, and (b) build up MAMVA's technical services'
experience in SMSI schemes both at central and provincial levels.
2.        The project was conceived as a sub-sector program  with three main
components: (a) renovation of approximately 120 traditionally irrigation schemes,
comprising a total area of roughly 32,000 ha, some 8,000 ha of which are covered by 9
spate irrigation schemes; (b) purchase of equipment for seven spate irrigation repair
brigades to operate in the southern provinces; and (c) reinforcement of management
structure for SMSI schemes at central and provincial levels: provision of technical
assistance and training of personnel, special studies, crop trials in areas of spate irrigation,
vehicles, office equipment and supplies and operating expenses. The implementation of the
renovation component was to be carried out in four tranches of 8,000 ha each. When the
project was prepared, studies on the schemes of the first tranche had already been carried
out and selection criteria and procedures had been defined for the other schemes.
3.        At appraisal, the cost of the 5-year time slice project was estimated at about
US$ 44.9 million (DH 359.9 million). Financing included a Bank loan of US$ 23.0 million,
a KfW loan of US$ 11.8 million and a Government contribution, including taxes, duties
and contribution from water users, of US$ 10.1 million.



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General
4.        By and large, the project's principal objective of reinforcing a systematic approach
in the management of SMSI schemes has been reached (Part n, Table 1). The project has
steadily raised the skills of MAMVA's central and provincial services in managing sub-
projects for the renovation of traditionally irrigated schemes, from the identification and
selection stages all the way to the construction and transfer of works to the users. Most of the
areas targeted by the project have been rehabilitated, at least as far as perennial and seasonal
irrigation are concerned. The overall quality of the works carried out, the interest shown by
farmers in cultivating cash crops, and their current involvement in the management and
maintenance of the irrigation systems, are factors which point to a substantial increase in their
revenue as well as to the sustainability of the schemes. These are the positive results of the
project. On the negative side are the facts that it took two extra years to complete the project
(seven years instead of the scheduled five), that the spate irrigation component had to be scaled
down, that the mechanical repair brigades in the southern provinces are not operating as they
should and that the system for monitoring and evaluating the project's economic impact has yet
to be implemented. Furthermore, assistance to WUAs has consisted for the most part merely in
the establishment of such associations; it is high time they are provided with: (a) back-up in
matters of organization and operation to ease their transition from traditional to the modern
management procedures now required of them; and (b) support and assistance to maximize
production on rehabilitated schemes. These issues will be analyzed further on.
Selection and Feasibility Studies of the Schemes
5.        In order to back up the technical and economic justification of the program of
work and begin work without delay, preparation of project SMSI 2 had included studies
on the first four schemes (7,800 ha) which had been selected as being representative of the
traditional irrigation sub-sector. Studies on the remaining 24,000 ha were to be carried out
in three tranches of 8,000 ha. Half the studies were to be entrusted to private consultancy
firms and the other half (i.e. roughly 12,000 ha) to the technical services of the Provincial
Directorates for Agriculture (Directions provinciales de 1'agricultutre - DPAs) and of the
Regional Authorities for Agricultural Development (Offices regionaux de mise en a/lecur
agricole - ORMVAs). The cost was estimated to be equivalent to 100 person/months of
consultancies, that is DH 9.5 million.. As it turned out, however, the contribution of the
DPAs and ORMVAs was far below expectation: they have only prepared studies on 14
small schemes for a total area of 830 ha. This meant that the studies outstanding of
34 schemes had to be handed over to private consultancy firms. The cost therefore rose to
DH 48 million, a very sizable overrun. High unit costs, which will be looked into in the
following paragraph, account for this overrun. The option taken to hire consultancy firms
to study those schemes over 100 ha, and the decision to establish a portfolio of sub-
2



projects (9 schemes for a total of 7 600 ha) so that the next phase of the long-term
program could go ahead without delay, were the main factors for this underestimation.
6.        The selection procedure adopted at the time of the project's preparation for
selecting schemes for the program's second, third and fourth tranches was partly to blame
for the overrun in budget and delays in the project. The procedure involved five sequential
stages requiring formal approval before implementation of works could begin. Criteria
included land tenure, quality of soil, economic rate of return, need for infrastructure
rehabilitation, a two-year deadline for the execution of works and, last, the commitment of
water rights owners to establish themselves WUAs to be in charge of the works' O&M.
These criteria led to long and costly studies each of which entailed 10-12 reports. What
had not been sufficiently taken into account at the time of project preparation was that the
traditional schemes targeted for renovation had been irrigated and cultivated for many
generations. The required works, which generally consisted in upgrading intake structures
and in lining of canals without interfering with existing water rights, were relatively simple.
It was superfluous, for instance, to conduct detailed soil studies or topographical surveys
entailing aerial coverage and photographic mapping. In hindsight, the process could easily
have been reduced to two phases: discussion with users in order to draw up a pre-
feasibility outline (see following paragraph) followed by a feasibility study with detailed
designs and preparation of bidding documents.
7.        The need to involve users in the choice of technical solutions was clearly
recognized at the time of project preparation. However, engaging the users in a proper
dialogue in order to ensure that they really were participating in the decision making, as
opposed to a mere and hurried consultation, did not prove to be an easy task. MAMVA's
technical agents had only a very limited knowledge of the participatory approach and the
users themselves were somewhat at a loss as to the purpose of the exercise. Nevertheless,
as preparation for the various tranches of works went ahead, the advantages of the
approach became better understood by MAMVA's technicians, the consulting firms and
the users; this led to more flexible schedules and plans for the works, which were therefore
more in line with the users' needs. As a result, the users' sense of ownership over the
renovated works steadily increased and there were less disputes when work was under
way.
8.        At the time of project preparation, the spate irrigation components (renovation
works and maintenance by mechanical repair brigades) could not benefit by any previous
lessons leamt under SMSI 1 since that project was only concerned with perennial and seasonal
irrigation schemes. These components were therefore less thoroughly prepared.
Renovation Works
9.        At the end of the project, 39 schemes amounting to 25,150 ha had been
rehabilitated. By the time the KfW Loan Agreement closes on December 31, 1997, it is
expected that a total of 28,070 ha will be renovated. The project thus achieved 80% of its
goal of 32,000 ha at the closure of the Bank's loan and will reach 90% by the end of 1997
3



when ongoing works are completed. In terms of area covered, perennial and seasonal
irrigation schemes will exceed the set goal by the end of 1997 (24,480 ha against the
targeted 24,000 ha). In terms of number of schemes, however, these fall very much short
of the target at appraisal: 35 against 111 (Part II, Table 5). One of the reasons is that
selection criteria privileged larger schemes as the studies undertaken during the project
found only few small schemes satisfying the rate of return criterion in spite of the fact that
the average renovation cost of a small perimeter turned out to be only US$ 1,000/ha (see
para. 12). Spate irrigation schemes selected represented less than 50% of the set goal
(3,590 ha against 8,000 ha), but in this case the problem of rate of return was the
overriding factor in the management's decision to rehabilitate only 4 out of 9 schemes.
10.       The rehabilitation component principally entailed work on weirs, intake
structures, tubewells, lining of 'seguias' and repair of rural roads (Appendix C). The
quality of work carried out can on the whole be considered satisfactory. Supervision
missions did, however, point out a series of minor problems in the 'seguias', such as
expansion joints missing in certain sections, but these were more often than not overcome
during the interim between the provisional and final handover of works. Other 'seguias'
had problems with control structures. It must be mentioned that, although flow control
structures for the distribution of water within a perimeter are easy to use, the
'mokkhadems' do not really consider them indispensable, accustomed as they are to
sharing water by methods which, however basic, fully comply with traditional water rights.
So far as work on intake structures was concerned, supervision missions did much to
improve their design and construction quality. The project entrusted the Laboratoire
public d'essais et d'6tudes with the job of supervising all works requiring geotechnical
study and this has guaranteed that they were properly carried out, especially in the case of
diversion weirs.
11.       Rehabilitation works greatly overran the scheduled timetable which presumed
that the first tranche of works would be completed by end 1990 and the remaining three
between mid-1992 and end 1993. Instead, the first tranche (covering 7,800 ha) was only
completed in 1994 and, as of end 1996, tranches 2,3 and 4 had only respectively reached
93%, 82% and 80% of the target, bringing the total area equipped to 25,150 ha. The main
factors which contributed to this delay are: the laborious selection procedure for schemes
and the length of the studies; the necessary interruption in the execution of works during
irrigation periods in order to allow crops to grow; the extension of works, in particular for
the lining of 'seguias', in order to meet last-minute requests of WUAs; unforeseeable
interruption of works during wadi spates; failures on the part of certain contractors forcing
MAMVA to terminate their contract (first tranche); and delays in payment to contractors
because of budget crises. This said, the effects of the delay must be measured within a
wider perspective since the initial schedule of activities, especially the studies component,
was probably over-optimistic anyway and since the project's principal objective of handing
over the schemes to user groups and placing them in charge of O&M was more important
than a rigid adherence to the timetable.
4



12.       The cost of renovation works turned out to be less than estimated, averaging
DH 8,400/ha against the forecast DH 9,300/ha (Annexe A of Appendix A). This
unexpected bonus and the overall satisfactory quality of rehabilitation works carried out
on SMSI schemes demonstrate that the number of Moroccan contractors able to compete
for rehabilitation works is large enough to influence prices. Spate irrigation schemes
turned out to be much more costly to renovate (on average DH 15,400/ha) than perennial
or seasonal schemes (on average DH 7,500). This explains why project staff privileged
perennial and seasonal irrigation schemes and preferred to wait until the technical services
could provide them with economically viable solutions before carrying on the spate
irrigation program. On the other hand, the slight difference in cost per hectare (7%)
between small and large schemes does not really explain why priority was given to
schemes over 100 ha. The reasons are probably to do with the DPAs and ORMVAs'
insufficient capacity to prepare studies and supervise the works, as well as the fact that in
some regions contractors showed little interest in the program. For the moment, it would
seem that the best way of reducing this last constraint would be to contract for clusters of
small projects situated at a reasonable distance from one another.
Other Components
13.       The equipment for the first four mechanical repair brigades was delivered in
1990 and in 1993 for the last one, that is with a delay varying from one to three years.
They were allocated to two ORMVAs and five DPAs for renovation work on spate
irrigation schemes in the southern provinces; the target was that they would be working
annually on a total area of about 80,000 ha. According to the project's annual reports, the
repair brigades worked on close to 42,000 ha in 1991, their pace slowing down to a
trough of 14,500 ha in 1994 before picking up again in 1995 and reaching 17,300 ha in
1996. The brigades' poor performance was analyzed by the supervision mission in
February 1994. It was thought that the problem was due to the lack of an operation
program that would ensure full use of the brigades in priority activities. In effect, the
average use of the equipment was very low, amounting to less than 300 hours/year, when
a normal schedule would call for 1,200 to 1,500 hours/year. The lack of heavy duty
trailers to shift the equipment is a limiting factor and accounts in part for the slack
performance. There are other factors, however, including cumbersome administrative
procedures for the purchase of spare parts for the angledozers, wheel excavator, back-hoe
tractors, etc. which can have the effect of interrupting work for several months. The
supervision mission therefore suggested that a system should be worked out to optimize
the work of the brigades, and an expertise for this was being procured at the end of 1995.
This study should first of all sort out the problem of how to divide up the tasks between
DPAs or ORMVAs and private contracting firms on the basis of comparative advantage.
14.       The program  for the purchase of vehicles and office equipment was
accomplished but overran the budget considerably. In the case of vehicles, unit prices
turned out to be far above estimates. As for office equipment, unforeseen expenditures
were encountered in equipping regional services for the feasibility studies they had to
5



conduct. Funds earmarked for technical assistance were used to finance the contracts for
the Laboratoire public d'essais et d'etudes to oversee the works. Funds were also used to
train 154 engineers, mostly from DPAs and ORMVAs, in using computer programs for
rehabilitation works design and O&M. The 3-year research program on cereal production
under spate irrigation has still not begun. The contract is in the process of being
committed since end 1995.
WUAs
15.       The SAR was very firm in recommending that water users associations be set
up as of the studies phase. The very existence of such associations was to be used as a
criterion in selecting those schemes to be renovated. However, the creation of legally
recognized. Irrigation Water Users Associations (WUAs) was put off until May 1992
when a decree for the implementation of the law on WVUAs was published in the Official
Gazette. It was only then that they could be converted into associations with legal
standing. There are currently 73 WUAs within the 39 schemes involved in the project;
further WUAs are being created by users who have applied for the rehabilitation of their
schemes. It would thus seem that the message transmitted to village communities by the
project has been properly understood and that communities are not reluctant to setting up
WUAs. The project in fact succeeded in convincing users that the associations would not
change their ancestral land and water rights. Generally speaking, however, the WUrAs,
once established, have not actively undertaken the activities expected of them. General
meetings are not held, the board's decisions are not put down in writing, and the amount
of annual water charges is not always fixed nor recovered. Yet the O&M of renovated
schemes has not run into any particular problem, because traditional practices have
continued to work. It would therefore seem that the technical staff have not had the time
or have not succeeded in convincing users on the role the WUAs should play. Users have
not understood what was demanded of them, which was to: (a) formalize the management
of this traditional association by progressively adopting the framework established by the
laws and the decree; and (b) systematically plan the O&M of schemes so as to ensure the
sustainability of government's investments, and (c) collect water fees to face O&M costs
and charges.
16.       Preparation for project SMSI 2 failed to analyze how  the traditional
associations were run and their capability to manage small-scale irrigation schemes. Such
an analysis would have provided them with the justification for the creation of WUAs and
helped to define an education and training program aimed at users so that they could
better understand the rules of the new legal framework and use it to better effect. It was
fortunate that this problem was spotted in the course of the project and WUAs are now
beginning to receive assistance. Indeed, if the WUAs are to fully play their role in the
future O&M of the irrigation systems, the project simply must intensify its efforts to
ensure that the DPAs and ORMVAs give these associations the necessary support. As the
results of the soon-to-be-started pilot training program come in, it is proposed that all the
schemes and WV.UAs concerned be progressively integrated within a national support
6



program. It is not too late to implement such a program because the management
problems the associations face at present can still be overcome in the traditional manner. It
is nevertheless necessary that the associations immediately receive assistance in getting
themselves ready to face the kind of problems they will encounter in five or ten years timie.
To this end, O&M procedures should be formalized and explained in appropriate
instruction handbooks (Notice d'entretietn et de fonctionnement - NEF). Two NEFs are
currently being produced for the schemes of Talghoumt and Toroug. These NEFs will
enable the WUA to get to know the various O&M tasks and their costs and the
organization involved and will also enable MAMVA to verify that the maintenance is
being done.
Agricultural Development
17.       It is still too early to provide a firm estimate of the agricultural development
likely to result from the rehabilitation works. Project works have only just been completed
for most of the concerned schemes and farmers have not had the time to substantially
modify their production system. The data gathered by the DPAs and the ORMVAs for the
ICR provide only a prospective idea of how production might develop. Field trips have
shown evidence, however, that the production system is being intensified, as witnessed by
more land being used for cash crops and by the increased use of inputs. This trend was
only to be expected because farmers on most of the SMSI schemes have always had to
economize on water and, water being so rare and precious, it is only natural for them to
use any surplus water with care within the bounds of their technical knowledge. Thus,
farmers have indicated that, once they can be sure of a permanent water supply and
depending on the suitability of their schemes, they will increase fruit trees (apple, almond,
olive, date palms), market-garden produces and fodder and will reduce fallow. These are
the first findings of change. Farmers have also said they wish to intensify production
through a greater use of inputs and better care to their crops. They now are in a position
to do so because they spend much less time maintaining and operating their irrigation
networks. Farmers who had decided to cut down on inputs because of water shortages are
likely to more rapidly switch to more intensive cultivation practices. Those, however, who
are not fully convinced of the economic advantages of intensive farming will, instead, be
slower to change.
18.       The extent of intensification will depend on each farmer's technical level and
his cost/benefit analysis for each crop. Advice provided by local technical services
regarding choice of crops, technical packages, marketing and processing of products, etc.,
will enable farmers to improve their profits. From this point of view, those schemes within
the scope of ORMVAs will be in a position of privilege since ORMVAs are staffed and
equipped  to  provide  extension  services.  As  the  mission  was  informed,
ORMVAs'extensionists are capable to assist farmers'in improving agricultural production.
Other schemes will suffer unless MAMVA sets up an efficient extension service for them
in the near future. Moreover, once production increases, there is scope for certain farm-
7



related activities to develop (such as milk collection, packaging of fruit, pressing of oil
etc.) thus widening the range of work and generating additional incomes.
19.       Data on agricultural production gathered for the ICR did not cover spate
irrigation. In view of the issues affecting its future and of the component's marginal
importance within the project, it was considered preferable to concentrate on perennial
and seasonal irrigation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
20.       The Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (Cellule de coordinatio77 el de
suivi du projet - CCSP) was to monitor and evaluate progress made in implementing
SMSI 2. Monitoring of the implementation of the physical program was carried out
satisfactorily and the biennial reports of the CCSP provided regular information on the
execution of the various phases, On the contrary, the evaluation of the economic impact
has posed and continues to pose problems. The system  initially put forward for this
evaluation proved so difficult to implement that a supervision mission in 1994 had to
redefine and simplify it. The structure of the information system included four levels:
WUA; Extension Centers (Centtes de travaux - CT) and Development Centers (Cenfres
de mise en valeur - CMV); DPA and ORMVA; and CCSP. It entailed data on agricultural
and animal production and marketing, on water resources and on monitoring of the
WUA's administrative and accounts system. Information on production, based on
statements furnished by the farmers, was to be matched against data collected by the
Directorate for Planning and Economic Affairs (Direction de la pl/aificatioi et des
affaires &onomiques - DPAE) from a sample of farms. Instead of all renovated schemes,
the 1994 SPN mission reduced the member of schemes to be monitored to only five
earmarked for a trial phase.' To date, the CCSP has only received data from two schemes
for the 1994/95 campaign and from four schemes for the 1995/96 campaign. Difficulties
encountered by the CTs in collecting the data must not be underestimated. Data gathered
by the CCSP for the 1994/95 campaign were inputted according to a program proposed
by the DPAE that would enable a computerized statistical treatment. Given the limited
number of variables and extent of the samples, however, a simpler program would suffice
for the required analyses and presentation of results.
21.       Monitoring of the WlUAs and data collection for the evaluation of the
rehabilitation program's impact on agricultural development and farmers' income should
be conducted as separate activities. Data on agricultural development can be collected
from a representative sample of schemes, whereas the monitoring of WUAs must involve
Even this revised system  proved difficult to implement and in 1996 a Governmenti of
Morocco/BIRD/KfW supervision mission proposed that the structure of the information system be
reduced to two levels (AUEA and CCSP) and that the information be limited to the level strictly
necessary for an evaluation of the impact on production and of the financial status of AUEA. Five
schemes (three of which had already been earmarked under the first system) were then selected for this
purpose.
8



all schemes concerned so that the CCSP's support program can adequately reflect the
situation. Besides, the data necessary for this kind of monitoring are easy to access since
they require no estimation. In his capacity as "7th member of the board", MAMVA's
representative should make sure the CCSP receives basic information on the association's
internal affairs and on the maintenance of the irrigation network. In the case of data
collection for the evaluation of agricultural development, the sampling methodology
should be revised so as to include useful information on crop rotation and yields.
Moreover, funds should be allocated to enable consulting firms to carry out a study, based
on a sample of rehabilitated schemes, for the evaluation of the impact of SMSI programs
on agricultural production and farmers' income.
Economic Rate of Return
22.       At appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated to be 20 %.
That estimate was based on ERR calculated for each one of the four sub-projects for
which feasibility studies were available: from 12 % for the Alt Messaoud spate irrigation
Sub-Project to 46 % for the perennial Agadir Lahna Sub-Project (Part II, Table 9 and
Appendix A). Present estimates do not diverge from the appraisal ones. The ERR for the
entirety of the perennial and seasonnal schemes is estimated to be 23 %, varying from 20
to 32 % according to the categories of schemes. If the costs of the spate irrigation
components (renovation works and repair brigades) are included in the analysis, without
any related benefits being taken into account, the ERR (15%) is still very satisfactory. The
switching values show that the ERRs are quite insensitive to cost increases or benefit
decreases.
23.       During the last three years of the project, budget constraints have seriously
hampered the project implementation. Execution of rehabilitation works have been
delayed and several construction companies have not been paid. Rehabilitation of some
schemes have therefore been delayed or even stopped.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
24.       The project's preparation benefited from  the analysis of the difficulties
encountered during the first years of SMSI I and this meant that, with the exception of the
above-mentioned issues concerning perimeter selection procedures and traditional water
users associations, the objectives proposed for perennial and seasonal irrigation schemes
were realistic. The project also benefited from the fact that MAMVA technical agents had
already worked in the previous project. Thus, an experienced team of staff played a
fundamental role in obtaining good results.
25.       The law  on WUAs was only promulgated in December 1990 and its
implementation decree in May 1992, that is nearly three years after the loan became
effective. During this period, the project had to spend a lot of time explaining to the users
what the WUAs were all about and the program of work consequently had to contend
9



with all the problems that a de facto association entailed. Additional work was later
required in convincing the community of users to convert their defacto associations into
dejure associations.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.       The sustainability of the rehabilitation of seasonal and perennial irrigation
schemes rests on three conditions: the renovation of works must be of good quality,
farmers' revenue from crops must be sufficient to enable them to carry out the schemes'
O&M, and the organizational system set up must guarantee that the maintenance is done.
These conditions would appear to be met for SMSI 2. As mentioned in para. 10, the
works were on the whole properly done. As the project progressed, users became more
and more involved in the technical choices and later also in the overseeing of the works,
which of course benefited the quality of work carried out. Although it is too early to give
a precise estimate of the future development of agricultural production and farmers'
income, there are clear indications that the water made available will generally be put to
good use and that the cultivation of cash crops will be intensified. Farmers' incomes
should thus not constitute a problem for the future maintenance of the networks. Since,
moreover, farmers in these SMSI schemes have always had to deal with a water shortage,
they are very much aware of the value of water and are thus bound to give maintenance
adequate priority. Data furnished to the mission, and confirmed by brief field visits,
indicate that even though traditional associations are still in charge of the O&M of their
newly renovated schemes, the standard of maintenance is satisfactory. Nevertheless,
measures must be now taken to ensure that they set up a system based on users' payment
of annual water charges. The preparation of O&M handbook (NEF) outlining appropriate
requirements, as well as the training program for MAMVA technical agents and WUAs'
members (which the DAHA is soon to launch with assistance from the German Fund for
Training and Specialization), will facilitate the establishment of this system. The training
program will assist WUAs to progressively supersede traditional associations in the O&M
of irrigation networks, so that the proposed legal framework can enable them to deal with
the more complex management problems they are likely to face in the near future.
27.       The situation of spate irrigation schemes and the mechanical repair brigades
presents a markedly less favorable outlook. The renovation cost of these schemes is
currently too high for cost-efficient investment which is why the project decided to curtail
their number. The poor performance of the brigades has warranted a recent study, to be
presented to the Government, in order to propose ways and means of improving the
situation. Meanwhile, efforts are re-concentrated on perennial and seasonal irrigation
schemes, which are more important than spate irrigation schemes in terms of surface area
and investments, and which show better signs of sustainability.
10



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.       At the request of the World Bank, the FAO-CP provided assistance to the
Government in preparing the project. The preparation (1986-87) and the subsequent
appraisal (1987) benefited from lessons derived from the SMSI 1 project (1984-1992). As
mentioned, the project ought to have taken more account of the fact that the schemes to
be rehabilitated had been cultivated for generations by farmers who appreciate the value of
water and are accustomed to the collective maintenance of irrigated land. Also, more
attention should have been given to preparing the spate irrigation components. On the
other hand, the project's firm recommendation that users be involved as early as the
studies phase did much to ensure the project's successful outcome. Because SMSI I
project supervision missions had been able to tackle some of SMSI 2's problems, the first
project SMSI 2 supervision mission did not take place until November 1990, that is 1S
months after the loan became effective. Missions were thereafter conducted twice a year
until mid-1994 and were then scaled down to once a year (Part II, Table 13). For the most
part, the missions were made up of two representatives: an Agronomist and an Irrigation
Engineer. The missions provided assistance to project staff in helping to solve problems of
various kinds (technical, administrative and financial) and this was much appreciated.
However, the hiring of a monitoring and evaluation expert should have been organized in
1992 or 1993, since the problem had been pointed out mid-1991. Furthermore, given that
the problems associated with mechanical repair brigades had been pointed out by the
supervision mission in May 1992, subsequent missions could probably have followed this
up with more determination (the study has yet to begin).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.       When SMSI 2 project was added to and then eventually took over from
SMSI 1, MAMVA ensured that its staff continued to work on it and progressively even
reinforced it. MAMVA managed to do this even at a time when the restructuring of the
Rural Engineering Directorate promoted the CCSP as Chief of Service of a newly
established Rehabilitation Unit (Service de rehabilitation - SR). At the beginning.,
MAMVA allocated enough funds to the project, but by the end of the project, because of
budget constraints, execution of project's components was delayed. Main weaknesses in
performance concerned: (a) delays in the payment of contractors; (b) difficulties on the
part of the CCSP and DPAE in evaluating the economic impact of the project; (c) limited
human and material resources allocated to extension services; (d) failure to begin the trials
on cereal crops in spate irrigation schemes; (e) delays in starting study to improve
management of mechanical repair brigades; (f) cumbersome and lengthy procedures, and
(g) low disbursements rates.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL OUTCOME
30.       Taken as a whole, the project's outcome can be considered satisfactory. The
principal objectives were substantially achieved (Part II, Table 1). MAMVA's central and
11



regional services gained extensive experience in small and medium scale irrigation schemes
and this will no doubt boost the Ministry's pursuance of the long-term program for the
rehabilitation of SMSI schemes and increase its efficiency. Several consulting firms and
contractors have similarly gained experience, as the project progressed, and learnt how to
collaborate with the users of schemes to be rehabilitated. The spate irrigation component,
however, did not achieve good results and therefore the project as a whole only partially
reached the objectives of physical works and reduction of poverty. The same can be said
for public sector management, whose good results were marred by the weaknesses
outlined in para. 29. In terms of environmental objectives, a project to rehabilitate
irrigation schemes can only have a positive impact, especially if certain measures are taken
to improve irrigation practices. However, efforts should be made to ensure that feasibility
studies take environmental problems into greater account. That satisfactory assessment is
supported by Economic Rates of Return which show the profitability of investing in the
rehabilitation of perennial and seasonal schemes.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
31.       The project is to continue throughout 1997 under KfW's loan. Once ongoing
works are completed, a total of 28,000 ha of schemes will have been rehabilitated
corresponding to 90% of SMSI 2's target. This additional year will also be used to
conduct a pilot training program aimed at MAMVA's technical agents and WUA's
members as a precursor to what should turn into a nationwide program. Such training
programs are indispensable in providing guidance to the new WUAs.
32.       The completion of SMSI 2 project does not signal the end of the long-term
rehabilitation program of SMSI schemes; it does, however, bring up the question of the
budget that will be allocated to it. In view of the program's merit, it would be worthwhile
for the World Bank and KfW to continue providing financial support to the Government
of Morocco.
33.      In order to enable MAMVA to monitor the long-term rehabilitation program
of SMSI schemes, it would be useful if CCSP could systematically provide information on
WUA's performance, and could provide regular evaluations of the program's impact on
agricultural production and farmers' income. This could be done following the suggestions
outlined in para 21.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
34.       As underlined in the project's SAR, small and medium scale irrigation schemes
provide an enormous potential for the development of agricultural production in Morocco.
The rehabilitation of schemes offers three advantages with respect to other investments in
irrigation: the investment cost is far below that of large-scale or modern SMSI irrigation
schemes; farmers on the schemes are accomplished at practicing irrigation and have done
so for generations; and the dissemination of small schemes throughout the country means
12



that annual production can be more evenly distributed. The total area rehabilitated by
SMSI 1 and 2 projects and other projects amounts to only less than a quarter of thie
250,000 ha being targeted by the long-term program. This program can gain from the
lessons learnt from SMSI 2 project:
-    Sophisticated feasibility studies are not necessary; a substantial reduction
in the cost and duration of these studies is possible by limiting them to
two phases: a pre-feasibility outline drawn up in collaboration with the
users and including a preliminary estimate of the costs involved in the
range of basic options, followed by detailed design and preparation of
bidding documents.
-    The studies must not, however, attempt to cut down on the time
required to enter into dialogue and cooperate with users in all the
various phases of the sub-projects: establishment of the WUA, selection
of works, their implementation and training of WUA's representatives.
The program will only be thwarted if attempts are made to speed ahead
of the rhythm required by the user community in order to think things
out and come to a decision. Involvement of WJUAs at all stages of the
project from studies to works is indispensable as well as their formal
agreement concerning all the project's features
-    During the studies phase, the issues concerning the WUA's legal status
and management should be broached with the user community; these
discussions will enable them to set down rules and establish annual water
charges etc. The consulting firm should also consult the association in
order to design an instruction handbook (NEF) on the O&M of the
rehabilitated schemes.
-    In order to make the best use of the rehabilitation works, the concerned
local and regional agricultural services should be strengthened. They
must be closely involved in the sub-project at the studies phase so that,
once the works are completed, they can be on hand to provide qualified
support. Farmers will require technical advice in order to take full
advantage of the works.
-    The job description of the WtUA's "7th board member" must be clearlv
outlined so that its role is properly understood. Because this person
represents MAMVA, and as such has to ensure that the association
complies to its commitments, it should be checked if this role is
compatible with his other duties (secretarial-accounting and extension
work).
13



In seeking to rehabilitate schemes, it is recommended that clusters of
small projects be selected within a given region so that tenders for
studies and works could attract a greater number of contractors and thus
lead to lower prices. Support and assistance to farmers would be easier
to provide.
The study on the management of mechanical brigades which is to begin,
should provide a wide range of options, including that of removing these
brigades and of awarding contracts to private firms for maintenance
work.
Monitoring of associations on all schemes and evaluation of agricultural
production and farmers' income on a sample of schemes should be
conducted separately. Economic impact surveys should be assigned to
consulting firms.
Continuity in the management of the project, at both central and regional
levels, is essential to its successful outcome.
14



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies                     jjE                       EDi           FI
Financial objectives                EII             ]          K             E
Institutional development           FEd          L --i                      LI
Physical objectives                EL             fi           Li           Ei
Poverty reduction                   Li           [R           Ei            Li
Gender issues                       L            Li           E             F
Other social objectives             Li           Li           LI]          [P1
Environmental objectives            Li             -I          Li           Li
Public sector management            L            F[           ED            Li
Private sector development          F3           Li           EII           Li
Other (specify)                     LII          LI]          [IIE Li
B. Project sustainability           Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(6;           (F)         (n
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance            ED            [E          Ei
Appraisal                         K]           [F]           K]
Supervision                       K]           R5I          EI
15



Highly
D. Borrower performance          satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                      L             E      
Implementation                   E-           EE
Covenant compliance              D             [          F
Operation (if applicable)                                 [I]
Highlv                                     HigWly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory
16



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                    Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Loan 2253-MOR         Support the development of the           FY 1983      Closed
Small and Medium      neglected Small and Medium Scale                      December 1992
Scale Irrigation      Irrigation Sub-sector through the
Project I             creation and rehabilitation of five
schemes and the preparation of a
second-stage project.
2. Loan 2590-MOR         Support the first phase of               FY 1985      Closed
Agricultural Sector   implementation of the Government's                    June 1987
Adjustment Loan       program of adjustment in the
agricultural sector. The principal
objectives of the program were to
improve the growth rate in agriculture
within the overall constraints in public
resources.
3. Loan 2656-MOR         Support and complement the reform        FY 1986      Closed
Large Scale Irrigation   package agreed upon under the First                June 1993
Improvement Project    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
with regard to the irrigation sub-sector
through the rehabilitation of about
150,000 ha, the improvement of
operation and maintenance operations
and the setting up of an efficient
management information system.
4. Loan 2885-MOR         Support the second phase of              FY 1988      Closed
Second Agricultural    implementation of the Government's                   April 1992
Sector Adjustment     medium-term agricultural sector
Loan                  adjustment program within the
framework of a general macro-economic
restructuring program. The essential
objectives were to foster efficient
agricultural growth and to contribute to
the reduction of budgetary and current
account deficits to manageable levels.
5. Loan 2954-MOR         Finance a part of the Government's       FY 1988      Closed
Second Small and      public investment program in small and                Decembcr 1996
Medium Scale          medium scale irrigation during the
Irrigation Project    1988-92 Plan through the renovation of
about 120 traditional irrigation schemes
and the equipment of seven spate
irrigation repair brigades to operate in
poverty areas in selected southern
provinces.
17



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Continued)
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                     Year of          Status
approval
Following operations
1. Loan 3036-MOR        Support the establishment of efficient    FY 1989      Closed
Agricultural        national research and extension                         June 1996
Research and        institutions for the development and
Extension Project   dissemination of improved agricultural
technology so as to increase agricultural
productivity, production of food. livestock
and cash crops, and farmers' income
throughout the country.
2. Loan 3403-MOR        To support a 1991/92 time-slice of the    FY 1992       Closed
Agricultural Sector   agricultural sector investment program, to            June 1994
Investment Program   promote essential policy reform measures
to improve the investment process and
strengthen MARA's institutional capacity
and to continue implementing key sector
policy issues.
3. Loan 3587-MOR        Nation-wide rehabilitation of large-scale  FY 1993     On-going
Second Large Scale  irrigation systems and associated
Irrigation          management and policy reforms with a
Improvement Project  view to increasing efficiency, providing
better resource allocation and ensuring
long-term sustainability of the sub-sector.
4. Loan 3765-MOR        Finance a part of the investment program  FY 1994       On-going
Second Agricultural   of the Ministry of Agriculture for a four-
Sector Investment    year period (1994/1997).
Program
5. Loan 3935-MOR        Alleviate the impact of the current severe  FY 1996    On-going
Emergency Drought   drought by providing: (i) rural
infrastructure (water and roads) to
generate income; (ii) agricultural inputs to
restore crop production and (iii) animal
feed to safeguard productive livestock.
18



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                       Date planned                  Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                  May 1983
Preparation                                                                                 03/04/1987
Appraisal                                                                                   04/20/1987
Negotiations                                                                                05/02/1988
Board presentation                                                                         06/14/1988
Signing                                                                                     01/27/1989
Effectiveness                                                                               06/16/1989
KfW  Loan Agreement                                                                         05/03/1991
Mid-term review                                                                             07/01/1994
World Loan closing                                             12/31/1994                   12/31/1996
KfW  Loan closing                                                                           12/31/1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 1989   FY 1990   FY 1991   FY 1992   FY 1993   FY' 1994   FY 1995   FY 1996           FY 1997
Appraisal estimate       1,700      3,400     7,900     13,500     19.200     23.000     23.000     23.000       23.000
Actual                       -      1,116     2,166      4,153      6.839      8.698     11.676     14.493      16.300"'
Actual as% of                -        33         27         31         36         38         51          -         83'
estimate
Date offinal                 -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -  04,30/1997
disbursement
a! 71 kg - Estimate as of 02/27/1997.
19



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators           Unit       Estimated        Actual       Actual as a %
in SAR/President's Report                                                       of Estimate
A. Renovation Works
- Perennial and Seasonal
Less than 100 ha                               Nb                 73             14                19
ha             3,000            830                28
More than l00 ha                               Nb                 38             21                55
ha            21,000         21,680               103
Sub-total                                      Nb                111             35                32
ha            24,000         22,510                94
- Spate
Less than 500 ha                               Nb                  3              2                67
ha              1.(00           340                34
More than 500 ha                               Nb                  6              2                33
ha             7.0)0          2,300                33
Sub-total                                      Nb                  9              4                44
ha             8.000          2.640                33
Total                                          Nb                120             39                33
ha            32,000        25,150a/               79
B. Spate Irrigation Repair Brigades
- Wheel Excavator                               Nb                  7              7               100
- Back-hoe Tractor                              Nb                  7              7               100
- Angledozer                                    Nb                  2              2               100
- Compactor                                     Nb                  7              7               100
- 7 t Truck                                     Nb                  7              7               100l
- Ancillary Equipment                           Nb                  7              7               1(0
- 4WD Vehicle                                   Nb                  7              7               100
C. Vehicles and Equipment
- Light Vehicle                                 Nb                 14             12                86
- 4WD Vehicle                                   Nb                 14             15               107
- Office Equipment                             DH'M                1.1            2.7              234
D. Studies, Training & Technical Assistance
- Studies                                       Nb                114             45                39
ha            24,000         43,477               181
- Training                                     DH'M                1.1            4.5              409
- Technical Assistance                         DH'M                0.5            0.7              140
a/ Assumed to reach 28,000 (88%) by end 1997.
20



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Project
economic evaluation has been based on various assumptions related to cropping patterns,
crop yields inputs, etc. These assumptions are assessed in Table 9 and Appendix A.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined                           lmpact     l
Study                   at appraisal/redefined         Status         of study
1. Studies required for the
selection and the
implementation of the
renovation works were
included as a separate project
component. The main text
and Table 5 therefore present
their purpose, status and
impact. No other studies were
defined in the SAR.
2. Improvement of the          During the January 1994        Expert is being
mechanical brigades         supervision mission, it was    recruited.
performance.                agreed that a study would be
undertaken in order to identify
ways to improve the performance
of the mechanical brigades.
21



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimlate (USS'000)        Actual/latest estimate (US$s000)a
Local       Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign       'I'otal
costs        costs                    costsb/      costs b
Item
Investment Costs
| lRenovation Works            25,240        11,940      37,180        16,312        7,710        24,022
2. Equipment for Brigades        1,150         1,720      2,870         1,341         2,000         3,341
3. Vehicles                       200           240         440           374          450           824
4. Office Equipmenit               80            60         140           171           130          301
5. Studies, Training and          670           710       1,380         2,933         3,110        6,043
Technical Assistance
Sub-total                    27,340        14,670      42,010       21,131        13,400        34,530
Recurrent Costs
1. O&M Brigades Equipment        1,010        1,340       2,350         1,030         1 ,340       2,370
2. O&M Vehicles                   220           410         630           230          420           650
Sub-total                     1,230         1,750       2,980         1,260        1,760         3,020
TotalProjectCosts            28,570        16,420      44,990       22,391        15,160        37,550
i Estimate as of 02/27/1997.
b/ Based on the appraisal's average rates of local and foreign costs.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total         Local        Foreign       Total
costs       costs                    costs          costs
Source
IBRD/IDA                           12.9        10.1        23.0                                      19.Oa,
Cofinancing institutions            7.4         4.4        11.8                                      5 lb/l
Other external sources                           -            -           -                           -
Domestic contribution               8.8          1.3       10.1                                      13.4
TOTAL                              29.1        15.8        44.9                                     37.5
Estimate as of 02/27/1997.
b/ Estimate as of 02/17/1997.
22



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appendix A presents the assumptions which are underlying the economic analysis. As
shown hereafter, the economic rates of return are satisfactory.
ICR                  Internal Rate                   Switching Values'
of Return             Costs          I        Benefits
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................................................% .........................
Ouled Boukhalfa                          24                 + 232                     - 70
Outat                                    20                 + 134                     -57
Tazarine                                 24                 + 189                     -65
Draa                                     32                 + 336                     - 77
Total Perennial and Seasonal             23                + 191                      - 66
Irrigation Perimeters2
Total Project3                           15                +  68                      - 41
These rates are similar to the rates calculated at appraisal.
SAR             Internal Rate                      Switching Values
of Return                Costs           I         Benefits
I ~~~~~~~~~...................................................% ..........................
Amizmiz                       24                   +  50                       - 33
Guigou                        22                   +  34                       - 26
|At Messaoud                  12                   +   5                       - 6
Agadir Lahnia                 46                   + 237                       - 70
Total Project                 20                   +  31                       - 24
1 At an assumed opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
2 Excluding benefits and costs related to spate irrigation.
3 Excluding benefits and including costs related to spate irrigation.
23



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfillmeent   fulfillment         Descriptioii of
Agreement   Section         type       status        date          date             covenant                Commilenits
Loan      3.02 (b)          13         C          N/A           N/A       Apply agreed criteria in the selection of  None
L2954    Sched. 5                                                         irrigation perimeters to be rehabilitated
Sect. 11
4.01              1          C          N/A           N/A       Maintain adequate accounts and apply     None
suitable audit procedures; audit report
and certified summary accounts to be
submitted to Bank within 6 months of
end of fiscal year
4.02              2         CP          N/A           N/A       Apply system of water charges to         None
recover 100% of O&M costs and at
least 10  of inivestimient cost
5.01 (a)          4          C        06/30/90        N/A      Cofinancing Agreements to becomile        None
effective by 06/30/1990
Sched. 4          5          C          N/A            N/A      Use of local competitionl bidding        NOnCe      l
Part C2                                                        procedures acceptable to thiC Bank
Sched. 4          5          C          N/A           NIA       Award of contracts for training, stuLdies  None
Section 11                                                     and technical assistanice in accordance
with Bank guidelines
Sched. 5          5          C          N/A           N/A      Maintain the Consultative                 None
Sect. IA                                                       Coordinating Committee
Sched. 5          5          C          N/A           N/A       Maintain Project Manager with            None
Sect. IBI                                                       adequate staff
Sched. 5          5         CP          N/A           N/A       Maintai tile Project Coordination and    Nonic
Sect. IB2                                                       Monitoring Unit appropriately staffed
Sched.5           2          CP         N/A           N/A       Water Users Associations to be           None
Sect. IIB                                                      established for eacl schemile to carry
out O&M and Govemniienit to conclude
arrangements with the WUAs to apply
systemn of water charges
Status:  C        -           Complied with
CD     -            Compliance after Delay
NC      -           Not Complied with
SOON  -             Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP      -           Complied with Partially
NYD   -             Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1.                Accounts/audit
2.                 Financial perfonnance/gelierate revenue from beneticiaries
3.                 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4.                 Counterpart funding
5.                 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6.                 Environmental covenants
7.                Involuntary resettlement
8.                 Indigenous people
9.                Monitoring, review and reporting
10.                 Implementation
11.                 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.                 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13.                 Other
24



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          I   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Overall, there was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                   Revised                  Actual
project cycle
Weeks       US$'OOO       Weeks      US$'0((       Weeks    US$000
Preparation to             N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A        136.8       31.4
appraisal                                                                                      l
Appraisal                  N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A
Negotiations through       N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A         40.0       84.0
Board approval
Supervision                96.7        272.5                                   91.2      251.3
Completion                  8.0          29.7                                   8. Oa'     1 b/
TOTAL                     N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         276.0d/   368.3bl
i/ As of 03/31/1997.
b/ As of 02/07/1997.
25



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomiaice rating.'
proSect cycle           Mono           Number                   Specialized    Implermen-     Develop-
project cycle  Month/of                 Days in       staff skills    tat ioni       ment          Ty'pes of
year         persons       fie        represented'      status      objectives     problems"
Through appraisal            N/A             N/A         N/A           N/A
Appraisal through            N/A             N/A         N/A           N/A              -             -              -
Board approval
Supervision:
1                   Nov./Dec. 1990       2          15            A, 1            2              1           v S 0,S
2                        June 1991       2&         12            A E             2                          1. S, W
3                   Nov./Dec. 1991       2          12            A [             2              1            NA, W
4                        May1992         2          12            A,]             2              2           M.N,O 
5                    February 1993       2         N/A            A, 1            2             2             B. M
6                        June1993        11          9             A              2                          1. C, M
7                    Jan./Feb. 1994      3          11          A. 1, M           2              1         13. C. M, N
S (MTR)              June/July 1994      2"         12            A, F            S             S           MI. N. lI
9                 March/April '995       1          33             1              S              S           N. D, F
10                      March 1996        1                         I              S             S        A. 1). M. O, F
N/A:    Non Available
MTR:   Mid-Tenn Review
a!  A: Agronomist; I: Irrigation Engineer, E: Economist; M: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; F: F-inaticial
Analyst.
b/  I: Problem free or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems, S: Satisfactory.
C!  A: Support actions to improve agricultural production; B: Beneficiary participation; C: Works' Ullit cost. D:
Delays in disbursements; F: Shortage of funds; M: Monitoring of agricultural development; N: Management ol tlhe
mechanical brigades; 0: WUA  organization; S: Slowness in preparing studies; U: Project Coordination) and
Monitoring Unit W: Works' progress.
d/  Not taking into account specialists financed by KfW.
26



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE






Appendix A
Aide-memoire de la mission pr6paratoire
1. INTRODUCITION
1.         A la demiande du Gouvernement marocain, de la Banque mondiale et de la KfW, une
mission du Programme de cooperation FAO-Banque mondiale 1 a sejourne au Maroc du 13 au
27 fevrier 1997, afin d'initier la preparation du rapport d'achevement de la seconde phase du projet de
petite et moyenne hydraulique (PMH 2). La mission, dont le travail a ete efficacement organise par le
Service de la r6habilitation et la Cellule de coordination et de suivi du projet (CCSP) qui y est basee, a
travaille avec des specialistes de divers departements techniques du Ministere de l'agriculture et de la
mise en valeur agricole (MAMVA) ainsi qu'avec les responsables de l'ORMVA de Ouarzazate et des
DPA de Boulemane, de Khenifra et d'Azilal, ou des visites rapides ont ete organisees. La PMH 2, en
effet, est intervenue dans 39 p6rimetres dissemines dans 1 7 provinces et, du fait de l'impossibilite de les
visiter tous, la mission en a selectionn6 5, representatifs des principaux types. Les conclusions
provisoires de la mission, resumees dans cet Aide-memoire, ont et presentees au Gouvernement lors
de la reunion de synthese tenue le jeudi 27 fevrier 1997, sous la pr6sidence de M. Rahali, Directeur de
la Direction des amenagements hydro-agricoles (DAHA).
-i. LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
2.         La seconde phase du projet PMH  s'inscrit, comme la premiere, dans le cadre du
programme a long terme qui prevoit la rehabilitation de 250 000 ha environ de perimetres de PMH en
une vingtaine d'ann6es. Les objectifs de ce programme concernent la lutte contre la pauvrete et une
meilleure satisfaction des besoins alimentaires nationaux. La remise en etat de nombreux petits reseaux
eparpilles dans le pays doit perniettre, en effet, d'augmenter les revenus d'un grand nombre de petits
agriculteurs tout en contribuant a satisfaire les besoins alimentaires des zones urbaines voisines. Ces
objectifs seront recherch6s en poursuivant et en renfor,ant I'approche systematique adoptee au cours de
la premniere phase. Cette approche comprend: (a) la cr6ation d'Associations d'usagers des eaux agricoles
(AUEA), chargees de l'exploitation et de la maintenance des reseaux et du recouvremenit de la part des
couts d'investissement A charge des usagers, et (b) I'acquisition d'experience dans le domainie des
p6rimetres de PMH par les services centraux du MAMVA et par ses directions provinciales.
3.         Le projet a ete con,u comme un programme sous-sectoriel dont les trois principales
composantes concernent: (a) la renovation d'environ 120 perimetres irrigues traditionnels d'une
superficie totale de pres de 32 000 ha dont 8 000 ha d'epandage de crues, (b) I'acquisition de
Ch. Lauwers, Econiomilistc, Chlef d missioin, 0. Farcy. Spjcialistc cn suivi-dvaluation. Consultant. T. Nguyen. SpVcialisic
en irrigation, Consultant et J-C. Rocaboy, Sp&cialistc ci organisalions paysaniiiales, Constiltiant dc la K[W. M. B.
Liche, Chargc du projct A la KRW a participc aux visites dc terrain ct aux discussionis finales ct M. V. T. Nguycn.
Charge du projet A la Banquc mondialc. aux discussionis fiiaics uniqucmcnt.
27



sept brigades de reparation des perimetres irrigues par epandage de crues, et (c) le renforcement des
structures centrales et regionales concemres: vehicules et materiel de bureau, assistance technique et
formation du personnel, etudes sp6ciales, essais agronomiques en zones d'epandage de crues et frais de
fonctionnement. La premiere des quatre tranches pr6vues, comprenait les quatre perimetres etudies lors
de la preparation. Des criteres ont egalement ete retenus pour la selecticn des sous-projets ulterieurs qui
devaient faire l'objet d'etudes detaillees soit pour les petits perimetres par les DPA et les ORMVA
concemrs, soit pour les autres par des bureaux d'etudes. Le co6t total du projet a ete estime a 359,9
millions de DH ou 44,9 millions de $ EU dont 23 millions de $ EU devaient etre pretes par la Banque
mondiale, 11,8 millions de $ EU fournis par la Cooperation financiere allemande (KfW) et le solde
(10,1 millions de $ EU, y inclus 7,2 millions de $ EU de taxes et droits et la participation financiere des
usagers) a la charge du Gouvernement.
111. RESULTATS AlTEINTS PAR LE PROJET
4.         Les rapports annuels 6tablis par la CCSP montrent que les objectifs quantitatifs du projet
ont ete, en grande partie, atteints ou le seront prochainement. De plus, les visites dans les
cinq perimtres choisis laissent une impression generale positive. La qualite g6n6rale des travaux
effectues, la motivation des agriculteurs en matiere d'intensification de la production et leur implication
actuelle en matiere de gestion et d'entretien des reseaux laissent presager une progressive augmentation
de leurs revenus et la durabilite des amrnagements. Ce bon resultat doit cependant etre nuance par le
fait que 7 ans ont et6 n6cessaires au lieu des 5 ann6es pr6vues, que le fonctionnement des brigades
m6canis6es pose des problemes et que le systeme d'evaluation de l'impact economique du projet ne
fonctionne pas encore. De plus, I'appui aux AUIEA a concerne principalement leur creation et devrait
maintenant porter sur leur organisation et leur fonctionnement sous peine de voir une majorite d'entre
elles ne pas etre capables de passer sans heurt d'une gestion traditionnelle A une gestion moderne.
5.        Bien que la mission n'ait pas encore eu le temps d'analyser l'ensemble des donnees
collectees A Rabat et lors des visites de terrain, il est cependant possible de presenter quelques
conclusions preliminaires. Ces conclusions seront regroupees en six paragraphes: les etudes, les travaux
de rehabilitation, les autres realisations, les AUEA, le developpement agricole et le suivi-6valuation.
A. Les etudes
6.        11 avait ete prevu que les services techniques des DPA et des ORMVA prendraient la
responsabilite de la pr6paration des etudes des perimrtres de moins de 100 ha (73 perimetres pour une
superficie de 3,000 ha) et que pour les perimetres plus importants (47 perimetres totalisant 29,000 ha),
le projet ferait appel A des bureaux d'6tudes prives. L'implication des services specialises des DPA et
des ORMVA dans la preparation des etudes a ete moindre que prevu du fait que la selection n'a retenu
que 14 petits perimetres et que 21 dossiers ont ete confies a des consultants. Le cout de ces 22 etudes et
des 12 autres preparees afin de constituer un portefeuille de projets, est de 62,5 millions de DH soit
cinq fois environ ce qui avait ete prevu lors de l'evaluation du projet. Elles concernent 43 477 ha soit 50
% de plus que les 29,000 ha programmes, L'important depassement des couts ne peut donc pas
s'expliquer par la seule variation des superficies. La principale raison est une sous-estimation de ces
28



couits. Cette sous-estimation provient des exigences de l'evaluation en matiere de: (a) s6lection des
perimetres, et (b) preparation des dossiers. Lors de la preparation du projet PMH 2, il n'a pas
suffisamment ete tenu compte du fait que les perimetres a rehabiliter sont cultives depuis plusieurs
generations et que les travaux a y faire sont, en gen6ral, techniquement simples. II n'est donc pas besoin
d'etudes pedologiques pour pouvoir estimer les benefices futurs ni de releves topographiques complets,
de couvertures aeriennes et de photorestitutions detaillees pour etablir le plan des travaux. De plus,
l'etablissement des plans parcellaires est tres on6reux.
7.         La longueur des etudes prevues est egalement responsable d'une partie des retards
enregistr6s dans la mise en oeuvre du projet. Une simplification des etudes et leur reordonnancement
permettraient de gagner plusieurs mois.
8.         Des la conception du projet, la necessite d'impliquer les usagers dans le choix des solutions
techniques a ete reconnue. II n'a cependant pas ete facile de passer d'une simple consultation des
agriculteurs a un veritable dialogue qui leur permette de participer aux choix apres avoir ete informe
des avantages et inconvenients des diverses solutions. Une majorite de techniciens de ]'Administration
et des bureaux d'etudes n'avait, en effet, qu'une experience limitee de ce genre d'approche. Une
amelioration progressive de la participation a pu etre notee au fur et a mesure de la preparation des
diverses tranches et il semble qu'actuellement les divers intervenants sont convaincus de son interet.
9.         La qualite des etudes, bien que pouvant etre amelioree, est globalement acceptable. La
participation des usagers a la selection des variantes techniques ne semble pas avoir intrinsequement
amelior6 leur qualite mais elle a certainement reduit le nombre de contestations des agriculteurs au
cours des travaux. 11 les a egalement amene a participer a la surveillance de ces travaux, ce qui a
certainement eu un impact sur leur qualite.
B. Les travaux de rehabilitation
10.        A la fin du projet, 39 perimetres totalisant 25 156 ha avaient ete rehabilites. Il est d'autre
part prevu que la superficie atteindra 28,070 ha a la fin de l'annee 1997 lorsque l'Accord avec la KfW
sera cl6ture. En matiere de superficie, les objectifs (32,000 ha) ont donc ete atteints a 80 % et le seront
a 90 % lorsque les travaux en cours seront termines. La r6partition de cette superficie entre les
p6rimetres a irrigation perenne et saisonniere et a irrigation par epandage de crue montre que la
premiere cat6gorie depassera les objectifs a la fin 1997 alors que la seconde ne les atteindra qu'a moins
de 50 %. En effet, les sous-projets a irrigation perenne et saisonniere couvriront 24 485 ha d6passant
donc tres legerement les objectifs retenus (24,000 ha). Les p6rimetres a epandage de crues ne
couvriront, par contre, que 3 585 ha, soit 45 % des 8,000 ha prevus. Les couts relativement eleves de la
r6habilitation de ces perimetres et donc leur rentabilite marginale expliquent pourquoi il a ete mis un
frein a leur financement. C'est egalement une question de rentabilite qui a reduit le nombre de petits
perimetres selectionnes, a savoir la difficulte a trouver des sous-projets satisfaisants au critere de coat
par ha (moins de 1,500 $ EU par ha en prix 1987). II est, en effet, onereux pour un entrepreneur
d'installer un chantier pour quelques dizaines d'hectares. C'est la raison pour laquelle, il est propose de
29



financer ulterieurement des grappes de petits projets situes les uns pres des autres, marches qui
pourraient int6resser bureaux d'etudes et entreprises de genie civil.
11.        La qualit6 des travaux, dans son ensemble, peut etre consideree comme satisfaisante. Les
Aide-memoire des missions de concertation mentionnent neanmoins quelques problemes mineurs. Cette
impression a et6 confirmee par les courtes visites de terrain de la mission. L'organisation du contr6le
des travaux y a certainement ete pour quelque chose de meme que la decision de confier au Laboratoire
public d'essai et d'etudes le suivi de la qualite des travaux. Le r6le de certaines AUEA doit egalement
12.        8tre signale; leurs membres qui visitaient les chantiers, assuraient un contr6le continu des
activites des entrepreneurs et informaient les techniciens de l'Administration des anomalies constatees.
13.        Les travaux de rehabilitation ont pris du retard par rapport au calendrier fixe qui prevoyait
que la premiere tranche de 7 800 ha serait terminee a la fin de l'annee 1990 et que les seconde,
troisi6me et quatrieme tranches de 8,000 ha environ chacune, seraient r6ceptionnees A la mi-1992, mi-
1993 et fin 1993 respectivement. Or, ce n'est qu'en 1994 que le demier perimetre de la premiere tranche
a ete receptionne; de plus, au 31 decembre 1996, les tranches 2, 3 et 4 etaient respectivement terminees
A 93, 82 et 80 %. Les principales raisons qui permettent d'expliquer ce retard sont la duree des etudes,
les problemes rencontres par certains entrepreneurs, ce qui a amene I'Administration A resilier quelques
contrats, les elements naturels tels que des crues et la difficulte qu'il y a A travailler dans des perimetres
cultives en essayant de gener le moins possible les agriculteurs dans leur travail.
14.        Les cofits des travaux sont 1lgerement inferieurs A ce qui avait e  prevu. Ramene a
l'hectare rehabilite, its s'etablissent A 8 500 DH alors qu'ils avaient ete estimes A 9 300 DH. Ce bon
resultat met en lumiere le fait que le nombre d'entreprises de travaux publics capables de mener A bien
les travaux de r6habilitation de petits p6rimetres irrigues est actuellement suffisant pour assurer une
veritable concurrence lors des soumissions.
C. Les autres realisations
15.        La livraison des brigades mecanisees aux DPA et ORMVA concernes s'est faite avec un
certain retard, les quatre premieres n'ayant ete livrees qu'en 1990 et la derniere en 1993 soit avec
respectivement deux et quatre ans de retard par rapport aux previsions. Ces brigades n'ont effectue
qu'une partie des travaux d'entretien qu'il avait ete pr6vu qu'elles fassent et leur gestion pose des
problemes aux responsables des DPA et des ORMVA. C'est la raison pour laquelle une etude devrait
etre faite dans les meilleurs delais de maniere A r6pondre A la question de savoir si de telles unites
peuvent etre gerees economiquement par les structures concernees et dans l'affirmative, definir les
mesures A prendre.
16.        Le programme d'achat de vehicules et de materiel de bureau a donne lieu a des
depassements de budgets. 27 des 28 vehicules prevus ont ete achetes A des prix unitaires largement
sup6rieurs a ceux du rapport d'evaluation. En ce qui conceme le materiel de bureau, la diff6rence est
due A des achats non prevus pour les services exterieurs.
30



17.        Les fonds prevus pour l'Assistance technique ont et utilises pour financer le laboratoire
LPEE. La formation a beneficie A 154 ing6nieurs dans les domaines de l'utilisation de la micro-
informatique, de la conception des travaux de rehabilitation et de l'organisation des travaux d'entretien.
18.        Les essais agronomiques dans les perimetres irrigues par 6pandage de crue n'ont pas
encore commenc6; le marche est en cours d'engagement.
D. Les AUEA
19.        Le rapport d'6valuation insistait particulierement sur l'importance pour les usagers de se
grouper des la phase d'etudes. Il en avait d'ailleurs fait un critere de choix des p6rimetres A rehabiliter.
La creation d'AUEA legales a cependant et retardee jusqu'en mai 1992, date A laquelle a et publie au
Bulletin officiel le decret d'application de la loi sur les AUEA. La conversion des associations de fait en
associations "de jure" a pu alors commencer. Il existe actuellement 73 AUEA dans les 39 p6rimetres
concernes par le projet; d'autres AUEA ont et cre6es par des usagers ayant introduit une demande de
rehabilitation de leurs perimetres. II apparait donc que le message transmis aux communautes
villageoises par le projet a et bien compris et que ces communautes creent actuellement des AUEA
sans reticences particulieres. La CCSP, avec l'aide des Services des amenagements des DPA et des
ORMVA, en effet, a pu convaincre les usagers que la creation d'une association ne changerait pas leurs
droits ancestraux sur la terre et sur l'eau.
20.        Une fois constituee, ces AUEA n'ont pas, en g6neral, eu une vie organique tres active.
L'Assemblee generale ne s'est pas tenue, les decisions du bureau n'ont pas ete consignees par ecrit, le
niveau des cotisations annuelles n'a souvent pas et fixe, etc... Et pourtant, la gestion et 1'entretien des
perimetres rehabilites ne semblent poser aucun probleme majeur du fait que l'organisation traditionnelle
a continue A fonctionner apres la fin des travaux. II apparait donc que les techniciens n'ont pas eu le
temps ou n'ont pas reussi A convaincre les usagers des avantages des AUEA. Les usagers n'ont pas
compris que ce qui leur etait demande, 6tait de: (a) formaliser le fonctionnement de cette association
traditionnelle en lui donnant progressivement le cadre juridique prevu par la loi et son decret
d'application, et (b) systematiser la maintenance et l'exploitation du p6rimetre pour perenniser les
investissements consentis par l'Etat.
21.        Le rapport d'evaluation du projet PMH 2 n'a pas analyse le fonctionnement des associations
traditionnelles et leur capacite A gerer des perimetres de petite hydraulique. Cette analyse aurait permis
de justifier le choix de la creation d'AUEA et de definir un programme d'information et de formation
pour permettre aux usagers de mieux comprendre les regles du nouveau cadre juridique et de l'utiliser
rationnellement. Heureusement ce probleme a et6 per,u en cours de projet et un appui a comrnence A
etre donne aux AUEA. C'est dans ce cadre qu'un programme pilote de formation de techniciens et de
representants d'AUEA va prochainement debuter avec l'appui de la KfW.
22.        Afin que les AUEA puissent, dans le futur, jouer pleinement leur r6le en matiere de gestion
et d'entretien des reseaux, il est indispensable que la CCSP intensifie ses efforts de maniere A ce que les
DPA et les ORMVA apportent A ces associations l'appui n6cessaire. II est propose d'attendre les
r6sultats du programme pilote qui va demarrer prochainement et de progressivement integrer
31



l'ensemble des p6rimetres concem6s et des AUEA a un programme national d'appui aux associations. II
n'est pas trop tard pour mettre en oeuvre ce programme car les problemes de gestion des perimetres qui
se posent actuellement aux associations sont encore g6rables de maniere traditionnelle. II faut par
contre, des a present, preparer les associations a faire face aux problemes qui se poseront dans cinq ou
dix ans. L'entretien et le fonctionnement devraient 8tre formalises sous forme d'une notice d'entretien et
de fonctionnement (NEF). Deux NEF sont actuellement en cours d'elaboration pour les perimetres de
Talghoumt et de Toroug. Ces notices permettront: (a) aux AUEA de connaitre les diverses taches de
maintenance et d'exploitation ainsi que leurs couts, et (b) A l'Administration de verifier que cet entretien
a bien ete fait.
E. Ie developpement agricole
23.       II est encore trop tot pour pouvoir estimer avec une certaine precision le developpement
agricole que les rehabilitations vont susciter. Les travaux dans la plupart des perimetres concernes par
le proj'et viennent r6cemment d'ere acheves ou ne le sont pas encore et les agriculteurs n'ont pas encore
eu le temps de modifier substantiellement leur systeme de production. Les donnees collectees par les
DPA et ORMVA pour la preparation du rapport d'achevement ne donnent qu'une idee imprecise de ce
que pourrait etre 1'evolution de la production. Cette premiere indication precisee par les visites de
terrain montre un debut d'intensification du systeme soit par une plus grande part reservee aux cultures
de rente soit au niveau des memes cultures par une augmentation de l'utilisation des intrants. Cette
orientation 6tait previsible du fait que les agriculteurs de la majorite des perimetres de PMH, ont
toujours vecu dans un contexte d'economie d'eau, d'eau rare et precieuse et qu'il est naturel pour eux
d'utiliser toute ressource additionnelle en eau avec soin, dans la mesure de leurs connaissances
techniques.
24.        Des que l'eau devient disponible sans risque serieux de penurie, les agriculteurs
.orivilegient, selon la vocation des perimetres, les cultures fruitieres telles que les pommiers, les
amandiers, les oliviers, les palmiers dattiers, etc..., les cultures maraich6res et les cultures fourrageres et
reduisent les jacheres. D'autre part, ayant limite les quantites d'intrants du fait du manque d'eau, ils
peuvent actuellement augmenter les doses; ils vont egalement mieux entretenir leurs cultures, y
consacrant une partie du temps qu'auparavant ils utilisaient A la maintenance du reseau en terre.
25.        Le degre d'intensification que choisira chaque agriculteur dependra de son niveau
technique et de ses analyses couts-benefices pour les principales sp6culations. Tout appui que pourra lui
donner les services techniques locaux en matiere de choix de speculations, d'itineraires techniques, de
commercialisation et de transformation des produits, etc... lui permettra d'affiner son analyse et
d'ameliorer sa rentabilite. Les perimetres situes dans les zones d'action des Centres de mise en valeur
(CMV) seront, de ce point de vue, privilegies, si comme cela a ete dit a la mission, ce sont les
agriculteurs qui precisent aux techniciens les themes A approfondir. II n'en sera pas de meme des autres
perimetres, a moins que l'Administration n'y mette sur pied prochainement un service d'appui aux
agriculteurs.
32



26.        Au fur et a mesure que la production augmentera, certaines activites peri-agricoles telles
que: centre de collecte de lait, centre de conditionnement de fruits, pressoirs, etc... pourront se
developper, diversifiant ainsi l'activite et creant une valeur ajoutee supplementaire.
F. Le suivi-evaluation
27.        Le projet PMH 2 avait prevu un suivi des realisations et une evaluation de son impact
economique (productions, revenus et rentabilit6 economique). Le suivi du programme de rehabilitation
a 6te realis6 de fa,on satisfaisante et les rapports semestriels de la CCSP ont donne une information
r6guliere sur l'execution des diverses phases. Par contre, l1'valuation de l'impact economique a pose et
continue a poser des problemes. Elle merite donc une analyse plus detaillee.
28.        Du fait des difficultes a mettre en oeuvre le systeme d'evaluation prevu, une mission de
consultation a, en 1994, defini un systeme simplifie de gestion et d'aide a la prise de decision pour les
quatre niveaux concernes par le programme: AUEA, CT et CMV, DPA et ORMVA et CCSP. II
comportait des donnees sur les productions v6getales et animales et leur commercialisation, sur les
ressources en eau et sur le suivi administratif et comptable des AUEA. Ces informations obtenues sur la
base de declarations des producteurs devaient etre croisees avec celles provenant d'une collecte de
donnees effectuee par la DPAE sur un echantillon d'exploitations. Cinq perimetres ont et retenus pour
une phase test '. A ce jour, les donnees parvenues a la CCSP proviennent de deux perimetres pour la
campagne 1994/95 et de quatre perimetres pour 1995/96. Les donn6es de la campagne 1994/95 ont ete
saisies par la CCSP selon un format propose par la DPAE pour permettre un traitement selon un
logiciel d'analyse statistique. Considerant le faible nombre de variables collectees et la taille des
echantillons, cette option est certainement trop ambitieuse.
29.        Le systeme d'information repose sur la presence sur place du 7eme membre du bureau des
AUEA. Mais celui-ci, souvent agent du CT, ne dispose que de peu de moyens de fonctionnement et si
le CT n'est pas situe a proximite immediate du perimetre, le manque de moyens de deplacement est
souvent la justification de la difficulte de la collecte des donnees.
30.        Le suivi des associations et la collecte des donnees pour 1'evaluation de l'impact de la
rehabilitation sur la mise en valeur agricole et les revenus des agriculteurs devraient etre dissocies. Si la
collecte des donnees sur la mise en valeur peut etre effectuee sur un 6chantillon representatif de
perimetre, le suivi des AUEA doit concemer l'ensemble des perimetres afin que la cellule d'appui aux
Associations puisse organiser son programme d'intervention. Actuellement, le responsable du suivi des
AUEA au sein de la CCSP ne dispose que des informations qu'il a pu collecter lors de ses tournees et
de celles transmises par les services provinciaux a sa demande. En sa qualite de 7eme membre du
bureau, le representant de l'Administration devrait transmettre annuellement a la CCSP les informations
de base sur les associations, telles que: situation financiere, principales activites menees par l'association
Constatant les difficultes d'application du dispositif propose, Ia mission de concertafion Gouvemement
marocain/BIRD/KfW de mars 1996 a propose une simplification de ce systeme en reduisant a deux niveaux la structure
du systeme d'information (AUEA et CCSP) et en limitant l'information au minimum necessaire pour une dvaluation de
l'impact sur la production et de la situation financiere des AUEA. Cinq pdrimetres (trois ddjA retenus par le premier
systeme et deux nouveaux) ont etd retenus pour appliquer cette nouvelle simplification.
33



y inclus 1'entretien du reseau, decisions prises par le bureau, etc..., ce qui n'occasionnerait pas de frais
supplementaires.
WV. COUTS DU PROJET ET FINANCEMENT
31.        Le coOt du projet PMH 2 atteignait, au 31 decembre 1996, la somme de 332,1 millions de
DH. Ce montant represente 92 % des cofits prevus lors de l'6valuation du projet pour des travaux
depassant les 80 % des previsions et des foumitures d'engins, de vehicules et d'equipements superieurs
aux estimations de la mission d'evaluation. Les differences les plus significatives entre les estimatior.s
prealables et les cofits effectifs concement les travaux (para 13) et les etudes (para 6). La premiere a
reduit les depenses de 83 millions de DH du fait d'une part d'une reduction des superficies rehabilitees
et d'autre part d'un coat unitaire inferieur aux previsions. Les 6tudes ont coute 37 millions de plus
qu'estime par suite de superficies plus grandes que prevues et de coats unitaires largement superieurs
aux estimations.
32.        Les decaissements de la Banque mondiale n'atteignaient le 3 fevrier 1997 que 15 millions
de $ EU soit 65 % du montant du pret. D'autres decaissements pourront neanmoins encore se faire d'ici
le 30 avril 1997; ces decaissements sont actuellement estimes a 4 millions de $ EU, ce qui amenerait le
total a 19 millions de $ EU soit 83 % des 23 millions de $ EU qui etaient disponibles. Sur un pret de
21,5 millions de DEM de la KfW, 7,5 millions de DEM avaient et decaiss6s au 17 fevrier 1997. Bien
qu'il reste encore 13 millions de DEM disponibles pour le financement des travaux de rehabilitation,
une consommation totale de ce credit est encore possible car la date limite d'utilisation des fonds est le
31 decembre 1997.
V. DURABILITE
33.        Trois conditions essentielles doivent ere remplies pour que la perennite du projet soit
assur6e: la qualite des travaux de rehabilitation, des revenus agricoles qui permettent aux usagers de
financer un entretien correct et une organisation de ces usagers qui garantissent cet entretien. Ces trois
conditions peuvent etre remplies dans le cas du projet PMH 2 comme le montre les paragraphes qui
suivent.
34.        La qualite des travaux de rehabilitation depend de celle des etudes et de celle des travaux
proprement dit. La qualite des etudes revues par la mission est globalemenit acceptable (para 9). Elle
s'est progressivement amelioree du fait d'une participation accrue des usagers au choix des variantes
techniques. Les travaux ont egalement ete d'une qualite globalement acceptable du fait d'un suivi
regulier qui pour les demieres tranches a beneficie de l'attention des usagers (para 11).
35.        Bien qu'il soit trop t6t pour pouvoir estimer avec une certaine precision l'evolution future de
la production agricole et des revenus des agriculteurs, les premiers elements indiquent que 1'eau
disponible sera, en general, bien utilisee et que l'accent sera mis sur les cultures a haute valeur ajout6e
(para 22). Les revenus des agriculteurs ne devraient pas constituer un frein au bon entretien futur du
34



r6seau, surtout que dans les principales regions de PMH, 1'eau est un facteur limitant et que les
habitants en connaissent la valeur. Ils donneront certainement au maintien en etat du perimetre une
priorite suffisante.
36.        Les associations traditionnelles ont poursuivi, apres la fin des travaux de rehabilitation,
leurs taches anterieures de gestion et d'entretien des reseaux. Les donnees foumies A la mission,
confirmees par les courtes visites de terrain, indiquent que la gestion et 1'entretien de ces perimetres
neufs sont actuellement satisfaisants. II faut n6anmoins penser des maintenant a mettre en place un
systeme base sur le versement par les usagers de redevances annuelles. Ceci sera facilite par l'operation
pilote de formation de techniciens de l'Administration et de membres des AUEA que la DAIHA, avec
l'aide du Fonds allemand de formation et de perfectionnement, va prochainement lancer. Cette
formation devrait aider les AUEA A progressivement se substituer aux associations traditionnelles en
matiere de gestion et d'entretien du reseau, leur cadre juridique devant leur permettre de faire face aux
problemes complexes de gestion qui risquent de se poser d'ici quelques annees.
VI. LECONS A TIRER
37.       Il serait presomptueux, avant d'avoir analyse plus en detail les donn6es collectees au cours
de cette mission, de vouloir tirer les le,ons du projet PMIH 2. On peut cependant indiquer un certain
nombre de points qui semblent particulierement importants et qui seront completes et developpes dans
le rapport d'achevement. La liste provisoire de ces points se presente comme suit:
(i)     simplifier et reordonnancer les etudes de maniere A reduire leur duree et leur coat;
(ii)    continuer a impliquer les usagers des le debut des etudes de maniere a assurer
l'appropriation des projets;
(iii)    aborder avec les usagers des le debut des etudes les questions relatives au cadre
juridique des AUEA et A leur fonctionnement; les aider a etablir leur reglement
interieur, y inclus la fixation de la redevance annuelle;
(iv)    aider les AUEA a e1aborer leur notice d'entretien et de fonctionnement;
(v)     impliquer les services agricoles des la phase d'etudes de maniere A ce qu'ils appuient
les agriculteurs des que l'eau sera disponible;
(vi)    clarifier le r6le du 7eme membre du bureau car iA ne peut pas etre, en meme temps, le
representant de l'Administration faisant respecter les engagements, le secr6taire-
comptable de I'AUEA et son conseiller agricole;
(vii)    revoir la gestion des brigades mecanisees A la lumiere des recommandations de 1&tude
qui devrait &re lancee des que possible;
(viii)   dissocier le suivi des AUEA qui doit etre exhaustif de la collecte des donnees
necessaires A 1'evaluation de l'impact economique qui peut ne concemer qu'un
echantillon de perimetres;
35



(ix)    confier a la DPAE, ou A un bureau d'etudes si la DPAE n'en pas le temps, les etudes
d'impact economiques qui devraient concemer un echantilion representatif de
perimetres.
VII. SUITE A DONNER
38.       De retour A Rome, la mission elaborera une version provisoire du rapport d'achevement qui
pourrait etre envoyee a la Banque mondiale et A la DAHA A la fin du mois de mars 1997. Afin de
respecter les delais fixes, la DAHA est invitee a envoyer ses commentaires A la Banque mondiale, avant
la mi-avril si possible. Ces commentaires constitueront le chapitre m dudit rapport d'achevement.
36



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE A: COUTS DU PROJET
Tableau 1: COUTS REELS DU PROJET
('000 DH)
1989       1990        1991       1992       1993         1994         1995         1996    TOTAL
L INVESTLSSEMENTS
A. REHABLITATIONDES PERIMETRES                                     14289.9     11473.0    7877.0   20267.2        44753.3      75031.0      36739.0      210430.4
B. EQUIPEMENTS ETFOURNITURES                              138.5      325.6        25.0      280.0       773.7       568.4        505.5         46.1        2662.8
C. BRIGADES MECANISEES                                                          9831.2    15469.2     2837.7        818.7         52.0                    29008.8
D. VEHICULES                                                                               2941.2     2752.5       1689.8                                  7383.5
E. ASSISTANCE TECH., ETUDES, FORMATION
1. Assistance technique                                                          50.3       83.2      199.0       828.0       1793.8        1581.7       4536.0
2. Etudes                                                                      2173.9    3980.4    9214.7        7771.2      16693.9        8127.6       47961.7
3. Fonnation                                                                                          191.1         64.5       493.6                       749.2
Sous-Total E                                                         0.0       2224.2    4063.6    9604.8         8663.7     18981.3        9709.3       53246.9
TOTALLNVESTISSEMENTS                                      138.5   14615.5      23553.4   30631.0   36235.9        56493.9      94569.8      46494.4      302732.4
IL COUTS RECURRENTS
A BRIGADES MECANISEES                                                                      5760.0     4844.0       3695.0       3295.0       3370.0       20964.0
B. VEIHICULES                                             206.6      578.5       777.0      610.0      1733.9       704.0        920.9        212.5        5743.4
TOTAL COUTS RECURRENTS                                   206.6       578.5       777.0    6370.0    6577.9         4399.0       4215.9       3582.5       26707.4
TOTAL COUTDU PROJET                                       345.1    15194.0     24330.4   37001.0   42813.8        692.         985.7         50076.9     329439.8
COOT DU PROJET (selon l'Evaluation)
('000 DH)
1989       1990        1991       1992       1993         1994         1995         1996     TOTAL
L INVESTISSEMENTS
A. REHABILITATION DES PERIMETRES                        12068.2   32785 3      95919.4   95414.6   61250.7                                               297438.2
B. EQUIPEMENTS ET FOURNlIIRES                             334.6      803.2                                                                                 1137.8
C. BRIGADES MECANISEES                                  14693.0    8299.6                                                                                 22992 6
D. VEHICULES                                             1478.7     2010.4                                                                                 3489 1
E. ASSISTANCE TECH. ETUDES, FORMATION
1. Assistance technique                                 201.4      204.2       209.5       217.5      225.7                                               1058.3
2. Etudes                                              2103.8     3317.1       3144.8      743.8      169.3                                               9478.8
3. Fonnation                                                       120.6        127.2      269.8                                                           517.6
Sous-Total E                                           2305.2    3641.9       3481.5      1231.1      395.0                                              11054.7
TOTAL1NVESTISSEMENTS                                   30879.7   47540.4       99400.9   96645.7   61645.7                                               336112.4
IL COUTS RECURRENTS
A BRIGADES MECANISEES                                     643.0    2032.0       4441.3    5685.0    5994.1                                                18795.4
B. VEHICULES                                              166.8      556.1      1359.7     1443.9    1533.9                                                5060.4
TOTAL COUTS RECURRENTS                                    809.8    2588.1       5801.0    7128.9    7528.0                                                23855.8
TOTAL COUTDUPROJET                                      31689.5   50128.5    105201.9  103774.6   69173.7                                                 359968.2
37



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE A: COUTS DU PROJET
Tableau 2: LES PRINCIPAUX TRAVAUX DE REHABILITATION
A. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Boukhatfa)
Superfficle >100 ha
Num.        Nom            Superlicle (ha)     Ouvrage da prise   RevAtement   Captageg au   Am6nagement                   Observations
program.    6qulpee        (Nombre)        sigula (ml)    souterralna      piste (km)
Al1.       Guigou              3000         3000                 2          16100                              12
A1.2      Amimiz               3250         3250                 2          28800                             10.4
A2.2      Mouzrou              2100         2100                 1          20000
A2.4      Zobzit                350          130                 1           4000                                 Ouvrage de prise avancd & 37%
A2.5      Tamguert              546          546                 1           7850
A3.2      KitanYarghit           166         160                 1          11800
A3.4      Mestigmeur            28.          284                            18400
A3.5      0. Boukhalfa          258          258                 2           2660
A3.6     A.H. Fanata           2695         1890                 1         16200                                  Ouvrage de prise avancA a 74%
A4.1      Talghoumt              770         770                 1          13840
A4.2      Taguitount            222          222                             3500
A4.3      Bouhlou              1160          770                 2          12920                                 Ouvrages de pnse avanrds a 57%
A4.4      Tizgui                 257         150                             2900    3 sources                    Captage sources avancd a 80%
A4.7      Amimiz2              1200         1200                            13200
TOTAL                         16258        14730                14         172170                             22.4
B. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Outat)
Superficie >100 ha
Num.        Nom            Superficie (ha)     Ouvrag. de prise   RevAtement   Captage au  | Amnagernnt                    Observations
program.    quip4e         (Nombre)        s6gula (ml)    souterrainau   pist. (km)
A2 1      Z, Echeikh           1632         1600                            35000
A2.9      Targa Wassay           138         138                             2250
A3.1       Outat               2310         2310                11          65000
A3.3      Gafait                330          330                             5200
TOTAL                          4410         4378                11         107450
C. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Tazarine)
Superficie >100 ha
Numr.       Nom            Superficle (ha)     Ouvrage de prise   RevAtement   Captage *au   Am6nagement                   Observations
program. Iquipee           (Nombre)        s6gula (ml)    soutorralne      piste (kem)
A2.6      TizguiNtarga         1152         1152                            21050    kheffaras
A2.7      Tazarine               810         550                 1          13300
A4.6      Palm. Akka             950         870                            20000
TOTAL                          2912         2572                 1          54350
TOTAL GENERAL                 23580        21680                26         333970                             22.4
38



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE A: COUTS DU PROJET
Tableau 3: REPARTITION DES COUTS D'INVESTISSEMENT PAR TYPE DE PERIMETRE
A. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Boukhalfa)
Superficle >100 ha                                                  000 dh
NumL |Nom          |Superficie (ha)    |           |   19891    19901   19911   19921   19931   *9941    19965   19961 TOTAL
l         ~~~~program. |eiquipee
A1.1  Gulgou             3000     3000 INVEST.             0      941    2296    4579    4710    3907           73      348    16854
A1.2  Amimiz             3250     3250 INVEST.             0     3589        0      555    4558    2761       2260        0    13723
A2.2  Mouzrou           2100      2100 INVEST.             0        0      600      450    1083   13224       9141      617    25115
A2.4  Zobzit              350      130 INVEST.             0        0      112      328      152      369        0      582     1543
A2.5  Tamguort            546      546 INVEST.             0        0        0      107      632    1156      2693      397     4985
A3.2  Ktan Yarghit        166      160 INVEST.             0        0        0      343      296      432     2295      320     3686
A3A  Mestlgmeur           284      284 INVEST.          1989     1990    1991    2177    2517    4499         3357    2252    20772
A3.5  0.Boukhalfa         258      258 INVEST.             0        0        0      455      305    3426      1026        0     5212
A3.6 A.H.Fariata        2695      1890 INVEST.            0         0        0     123      400      588      7825    7460    16394
A4.1  Talghoumt           770      770 INVEST.             0        0        0       39      528      252      932    4006      5757
A4.2  Tagultount          222      222 INVEST.             0        0        0       27      436      257     1754    2217      4691
A4.3  Bouhlou            1160      770 INVEST.             0        0        0      126      183    1070      2875    2912      7168
A4.4  Tizgui              257      150 INVEST.             0        0        0       17      256      111      413      849     1646
A4.7  Am,miz2            1200     1200 INVEST.             0        0        0        0        0      177     6704    3346    10227
TOTAL                            14730 INVEST.         1989      6520    4999    9326   16056   32227    41348   25306   13M1
B. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Outat)
Superficie >100 ha                                                        000 dh
Num. Nom            Superficie (ha)                    1989      19901   1991    1992    1993    19941   199           199   TOTAL
I             lprogram. jequipee             I
A2.1  Z. Echeikh         1632     1600 INVEST.             0        0      395       91      853    4630      3825    1135    10929
A2.9  TargaWassay         138      138 INVEST.             0        0        0      126      413      700     2414      250     3903
A3.1  Outat              2310     2310 INVEST.             0        0      774      180      353    3351    20492    4157    29307
A3.3  Gafait              330      330 INVEST.             0        0        0      371      444    3081      1945        0     5841
TOTAL                             4378                     0        0    1169       768    2063   11762    28676    6642    49980
C. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Tazarine)
Superricie >100 ha                                                        000 dh
Num. Nom            Superficie (ha)                    1989      1990    1991    1992    1993    1994         1995    1 996  TOTAL
program. lIquipee              I
A2.6  TizgulNtarga       1152     1152 INVEST.             0        0        0      167      972    1772    11379    1823    16113
A2.7  Tazarine            810      550 INVEST.             0        0      145      109      262    1572      7313    4965    14366
A4.6  Palm. Akka          950      870 INVEST.             0        0        0        0      350       97     1222    4209      5878
TOTAL                             2672                     0        0      145      276    1684    3441    19914   10997    36357
39



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE A: COUTS DU PROJET (Suite)
D.PETITS PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Draa)
Superficis <100 ha                                                      000 dh
Num. Nom          ISuperficie (ha)                    199      19901   1991 |   19921   19931   194        199|5  19961 TOTAL
I            |program. 1equipee 
B1.4  Agd.Lahna           50       50 INVEST.            0        0      545     303       21       21        0       0      890
B2.10 Bin Ewidan          30       30 INVEST.            0        0      237      35        0        0        0       0      272
B2.11 Tissar              40       40 INVEST.            0        0      314      35        0        0        0       0      349
B2.12 Tazrout             50       50 INVEST.            0        0      411      53       33        0        0       0      497
B2.13 Tagadirt            80       80 INVEST.            0        0      202     436      108        0        0       0      746
B2.14 Gendir              40       40 INVEST.            0        0      180      20        0       0         0       0      200
B2.15 Draa                95       95 INVEST.            0        0      729     320        0        0        0       0     1049
B2.16 A. Sefrou          100      100 INVEST.            0        0      416     541        0      95         0       0     1052
B2.17 A. Jouala           45       45 INVEST.            0        0      150     210        0        0        0       0      360
B2.18 Ijarmouas           30       30 INVEST.            0        0      180      60        0        0        0       0      240
B2.19 A. Hajbat           50       50 INVEST.            0        0        0     125       80      182       12       0      399
B3.9  Talahyant          100       75 INVEST.            0        0        0       0        0      90         0       0       90
B3.10 Tarseft            100       75 INVEST.            0        0        0       0        0     318         0       0      318
B3.11 A. Hassan           95       70 INVEST.            0        0        0       0        0      46       142      45      233
TOTAL                             830                    0        0    3364    2138       242     762       154      45     6696
E.PETITS PERIMETRES A EPANDAGE DE CRUES
Supericie >1OO ha                                                       000 dh
Num. Nom          ISuperficie (ha)                   1989       990    1         19921   19931   1994      19961   19961 TOTAL
I |          |program. |equipee |                                  9  
A1.3  A. Messoud        1500     1500 INVEST.            0     9760    5813      605    9931    1057        544       0    27710
A2.8  Botm.Jema          460      230 INVEST.            0        0      178     151    1334    4854       1251     453     8221
A3.7  Touroug           1000      800 INVEST.            0        0        0     378      415     588    2404    1831       5616
A3.8  Taghicht           625      110 INVEST.            0        0       20     290       49     665      1223    4271     6518
TOTAL                            2640                    0     9760    6011    1424   11729    7164    5422    6555    48065
40



AIDEMEMOIRE - ANNEXE A
Tableau 4: RECAPITULATIF COUTS DU PROJET
A. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Boukhalfa)
Superficie totale equipee, fin 1996: 14 730 ha
000 dh                             1990   1991    1992    1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001 2002-06 2007-11 2012-20
Investissement total              6520   4999   9326  16056  32227  41348  25306
CoOt entretien avant-projet       7070   7070   7070   7070   7070   7070   7070
CoOt entretien aprns-projet                                                                   976     976    976       976     976    1464    1952   2440
B. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Outat)
Superficie totale equipee, fin 1996: 4 378 ha
OOOdh                              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995   1996   1997    1998   1999   2000   2001 2002-062007-11 2012-20
Investissement total                  0    1169     768   2063  11762  28676   5542
CoOt entretien avant-projet        2100    2100   2100   2100   2100   2100   2100
CoOt entretien aprLs-projet                                                                   400     400     400      400     400    600       800    1000
C. PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Tazarine)
Superficie totale equipee, fin 1996: 2 572 ha
oao dh                            1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995    4996   1997    1998    1999   2000   2001 2002-06 2007-11 2012-20
lnvestissementtotal                   0     145     276    1584   3441   19914  10997
CoOt entretien avant-projet        1235    1235    1235    1235    1235    1235    1235
CoOt entretien apres-projet                                                                   290     290     290      290     290     435      580     727
D.PETITS PERIMETRES A IRRIGATION PERMANENTE ET SAISONNIERE (Type Draa)
Superficie totale equip6e, fin 1996: 830 ha
000 dh                             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996   1997   1998    1999   2000    2001 2002-06 2007-112012-20
Investissement total                  0   3364   2138       242      752     154      45
CoOt entretien avant-projet         265     265     265      265     265     265     265
CoOt entretien apres-projet                                                                    54      54      54       54      54       80     120     134
41



AIDE-MEMOIRE ANNEXE B
Analyse economique
1.        La PMH 2 est intervenue dans 39 perimetres dissemines dans 17 provinces et dans le cadre
de la pr6paration de ce rapport d'achevement, cinq perimetres ont ete selectionnes comme
representatifs de la majorite des autres perimetres. II aurait, en effet, pris beaucoup de temps de
collecter les donnees dans chacun des 39 perimetres et d'aller en verifier la coh6rence. La Cellule de
coordination et de suivi du projet a donc choisi cinq perimrtres et y a fait collecter des donn6es
necessaires A 1'estimation de la rentabilite 6conomique des investissements r6alis6s, donnees qui ont et6
completees lors de discussions avec les techniciens de ces regions. Ces p6rimetres sont brievement
presente ci-dessous, la liste exhaustive etant donnee au Tableau 4 de l'Appendice B:
* Ouled Boukhalfa dans la province de Boulemane d'une superficie equip6e de 260 ha
qui represente 14 p6rimetres A irrigation permanente et saisonniere de plus de 100 ha;
* Outat dans la province de Khenifra, d'une superficie equipee de 2 310 ha, qui
represente 4 perimbtres A irrigation permanente et saisonniere de plus de 100 ha;
* Tazarine et Tizgui N'targa dans la province de Ouarzazate de superficies equip6es
respectives de 810 ha et 1 150 ha qui repr6sentent 3 perimetres a irrigation permanente
et saisonniere de plus de 100 ha;
* Draa dans la province d'Azilal, d'une superficie equipee de 95 ha, qui repr6sente les 14
perimetres de moins de 100 ha a irrigation permanente et saisonniere.
2.        Cette selection m6rite deux commentaires. Le premier a trait A I'absence de p6rim6tre
d'epandage de crues. La duree de la mission n'a pas permis de trouver le temps necessaire a cette
visite; une solution aurait ete de reduire le nombre de p6rimrtres A irrigation perenne et saisonniere ce
qui n'a pas ete retenu car un temps suffisant a voulu etre reserve A ce type d'irrigation dont l'avenir est
actuellement nettement plus prometteur que celui de l'epandage de crues. Le second concerne les deux
perimetres, Tazarine et Tizgui N'targa, qui ont ete retenus dans un groupe qui n'en compte que trois;
les hasards du calendrier ont fait qu'une demi-journee a pu etre trouvee A Ouarzazate pour visiter le
second perimetre et qu'il aurait e dommage de ne pas utiliser les donnees collectees.
3.        Cet appendice presente les donnees de base qui ont permis d'estimer la rentabilit6
6conomique du projet. Seront successivement passes en revue, les donnees relatives aux b6n6fices:
superficies cultivees, donnees technico-economiques pour les principales speculations, prix
6conomiques et facteurs de conversion, celles concemant les couts et finalement les taux de rentabilitW
economique.
42



BWnefices economiques
4.         Afin d'estimer les benefices economiques du projet, il a, dans un premier temps, ete evalue
le b6n6fice par ha dans chacun des 5 perimetres. Ce ben6fice a ensuite 6te extrapole au niveau de la
superficie totale de tous les p6rimetres representes par ces perimetres. L'estimation du benefice par ha
pour chacun des cinq perimrtres a suivi la m8me s6quence de calcul:
* presentation de I'evolution des superficies cultiv6es dans la situation "avant le projet"' la
situation actuelle et la situation "en periode de croisiere" (Tableau 1 a 5); les donnees de
la situation avant le projet proviennent de l'6tude de factibilite, celles de la situation
actuelle ont 6te foumies par les techniciens locaux et celles de la situation en periode de
croisiere sont des estimations faites par la mission sur la base des discussions avec les
techniciens et avec les agriculteurs; du fait de l'imprecision relative des donn6es, il n'a
et retenu que les cultures les plus importantes pour chacun des p6rimrtres; c'est ainsi
par exemple que les 1lgumineuses qui a Ouled Boukhalfa ne couvraient que 9 ha sur un
total de 280 ha, n'ont pas et retenues dans l'assolement, cette superficie ayant ete
integree A celle des cereales;
. pour chacune des speculations representatives du perimrtre, les donnees technico-
6conomiques des situations "avant le projet" et '"priode de croisiere" ont ete preparees
sur la base des donn6es fournies par les techniciens des CT, des CMV, des DPA et de
l'ORMVA; les Tableaux 6 a 15 presentent les fiches relatives au ble, mais en derobe,
feves, luzeme, pomme de terre,olivier, pommier, amandier, palmier dattier et henne;
pour chacune d'elles, le produit brut et les couits de production sont presentes en
quantites et en valeur;
* les prix economiques (Tableau 16) utilises dans ces fiches technico-economiques sont
tous des prix premier trimestre 1997; ils ont ete soit repris du rapport de pr6-evaluation
du Projet d'amenagement de bassins versants, soit collectes localement; certains prix
comme ceux des pomme de terre, des pommes et des dattes ont 6te revus a la baisse;
pour les intrants et les travaux mecaniques le facteur de conversion a 6te pris egal A 1;
pour la main d'oeuvre agicole, le facteur de conversion a et pris egal a 0,8;
* le Tableau 17 resume les benefices nets economiques par ha "avant le projet" et en
"annee de croisiere" pour les cultures s6lectionn6es.
5.         Les b6n6fices economiques pour chacun des types de p6rimetres sont obtenus comme suit:
* en combinant les superficies des Tableaux 1 A 5 et les benefices par ha resumes au
Tableau 17, on obtient les benefices economiques des situations "avant le proj et" et
"annee de croisiere" pour chacun des cinq perimetres choisis; la periode de croisiere est
prevue commencer 4 ans apres la fin des travaux, ce qui est le double de l'estimation
faite au cours de l'evaluation (deux ans apres la fin des travaux); 1'evolution du
benefices net economique au cours des 4 premieres ann6es (Tableau 18) pour chacun
des quatre types de perimetres, a ete arbitrairement fixe a 20 %, 20 %, 30 % et 30 % de
la diffirence entre le ben6fice "avant le projet" et "ann6e de croisiere" respectivement
43



les annees 1, 2, 3 et 4; comme precise ant6rieurement, les p6rimetres de Tazarine et de
Tizgui N'Targa representent un seul type de perimetre;
les donnees relatives aux ben6fices economiques annuels par perimetre ont ensuite ete
multipliees par les superficies rehabilitees annee par annee (Tableau 19) ce qui a permis
d'obtenir, pour chacun des quatre types de p6rimetres, les ben6fices economiques
additionnels resultant du projet (Tableaux 23 a 28).
Couits economiques
6.         Tous les coats ont etd transformes en DH 1997 afin de pouvoir les comparer aux benefices
qui ont ete estimes en prix 1997. Les taux d'actualisation utilises sont presentes au Tableau 20. Cette
actualisation a ete faite sur la base des taux de l'inflation locale pour la totalite des cofits (monnaie
locale et devises 6trangeres) sur la base de l'hypothese que le differentiel d'inflation entre le Maroc et
les pays exportateurs de biens et services est compense par les variations du taux de change DH-
devises etrangeres.
7.         Les couts exprimes en DH  1997 ont ensuite ete ajust6s par le facteur de conversion
standard (Tableau 16). Les couits economiques d'investissement et de fonctionnment presentes au
Tableau 21 ne diffbrent que de peu avec les couts du projet en DH courants (Appendice B, Tableau 1).
Ceci resulte du fait que les augmentations provenant de l'actualisation sont partiellement annul6es par
I'ajustement du facteur de conversion standard.
8.         Comme precise au niveau des fiches technico-economiques, le coat de l'eau a ete presente
globalement pour chacun des perimetres (Tableau 22). L'estimation du cofit de l'eau a ete abordee par
le biais des couts d'entretien des perimetres. En effet, dans les perimetres traditionnels, les usagers ne
paient pas l'eau; par contre, ils financent l'entretien et les reparations du perimetre, soit en travaillant
eux-memes, soit en foumissant de la main-d'oeuvre salari6e. Pour les perimetres rehabilites,
l'estimation des coats d'entretien a ete faite sur la base de 2 % par an des couits de rehabilitation.
Malgre un taux pris volontairement assez elev6, les usagers font des economies d'entretien assez
importantes. Les economies varient par perimetres, de 140 DH par ha et par an au Draa a 310 DH a
Ouled Boukhalfa.
Taux de rentabilite economique
9.         L'estimation de la rentabilite a ete faite pour chacun des quatre types de pdrimetres
rehabilites, pour l'ensemble des p6rimetres d'irrigation permanente et saisonniere et pour le projet en
entier:
* pour les quatre types de perimetres rehabilit6s, les couts pris en consideration sont les
couts directs d'investissement et les economies en matiere d'entretien des perimetres.
Les couts gen6raux de fonctionnement du projet n'ont donc pas ete affect6s aux sous-
projets;
* pour l'ensemble des perimetres d'irrigation permanente et saisonniere, tous les coats du
projet ont ete pris en consideration a 1'exception des cofits de rehabilitation des
44



perimetres d'epandage de crues et d'achat et de fonctiaoinement des brigades
m6canis6es;
* pour le projet en entier, tous les couits ont 6t6 pris en consid6ration alors qu'aucun
benefice relatif aux composantes d'epandage de crues n'a 6t6 comptabilise.
10.        Les tableaux suivants resument les taux de rentabilite estim6s par le rapport d'achevement
et ceux qui avaient ete calcules par la mission d'evaluation.
Rapport                 Taux de  |               Switchingvalues'
d'achevement             rentabilite     Diminution des        Augmentation des
benefices               coots
............................................ ....% ...........................
Perinmtres du type Oui'^d Boukhalfa     24                70                    232
Perimetres du type Outat                20                57                    134
Perimetres du type Tazarine             24                65                    189
Pnrimtres du type Draa                  32                77                    336
Ensemble des perimetres d'irrigation    23                66                    191
perenne et saisonniWre3
Total du projet3                        15                41                     68
Rapport           Taux de                       Switching values
d'evaluation      rentabilite    Diminution des bnefices  I Augmentation des coftts
.................... .............................. .% ..........................
Amizmiz                  24                    33                         50
Guigou                   22                    26                         34
Alt Messaoud              12                    6                          5
Agadir Lahnia            46                    70                        237
Total du projet          20                    24                         31
Les taux estimes pour le rapport d'achevement se comparent tres favorablement avec les taux calcules
par la mission d'evaluation du projet. Au niveau des quatre types de p6rimetres, les taux de rentabilite
varient de 20 a 32 % alors que pour l'irrigation perenne et saisonniere l'evaluation avait obtenu des taux
de 22 a 46 %. Les 'twitching values" montrent cependant une plus grande sensibilit6 aux diminutions
de b6n6fices et aux augmentations de couits que dans le cas du rapport d'achevement. II faut noter,
cependant, que le cout d'opportunite du capital n'est pas indique dans le SAR et que donc la
' A un cout d'opportunite du capital de 10 %.
2 Non inclus les benefices et les cofits relatifs aux epandages de crues.
3 Hors benefices relatifs aux epandages de crues mais y inclus les cofits de cette composante.
45



comparaison n'est pas entierement valable. Le taux pour la totalite du projet est de 20 % pour le SAR;
il varie entre 15 et 23 % pour le rapport d'achevement. Le taux de 15 % peut, en effet, tre consid&r6
comme une limite minimum puisque l'ensemble des couits a 6te pris en consideration et qu'aucun
benefice n'a ete estime pour la composante d'epandage de crues. D'autre part, 23 % est un maximum
puisque les couts et ben6fices de l'epandage de crues, composante la moins rentable du projet, ne sont
pas pris en consideration.
46



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 1. Perimetre d'Ouled Boukhalfal - Superficies cultivees
Cultures                 Situation                  Situation                 Situation
"Avant le projet"2            actuelle3        I "Periode de croisiere"4
.......................................................... ha ......................................
Cerdales5                           110                       110                       110
Ldgumineuses6                        10                        10                         15
Fourrage7                            20                        25                        40
Maralchage8                          10                        10                        20
Arboriculture9                      125                       130                       175
Total                            275                       285                       360
Intensitd culturale                 106                       110                       138
Source: Donnees de la CCSP, de la DPA et estimations de la mission.
1 Infrastructures achevdes en 1995; superficie irrigable: 260 ha.
2 Donndes de l'etude de factibilitd.
3 Saison culturale 1996-1997.
4 Prevue 4 ans apres la fin des travaux.
5 Bld principalement.
6 Feves principalement.
7 Luzerne principalement.
8 Pomme de terre et carottes/navets.
9 Olivier principalement.
47



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 2. Primetre d'Outat' - Superficies cultivees
Cultures                 Situation                 Situation                 Situation
' "Avant le projet"2    I         actuelle3        I "P6riode de croisire"4
.........................................................  ..........................ha
Cereales5                           810                     1 420                     1 200
Fourrage6                           290                       330                       360
Maralchage7                          60                        80                       150
ArboricultureS                      450                       480                       600
Jachere                             700
Total                           2 310                    2 310                     2 310
Intensite culturale                  70                       100                       100
Source: Donnces de la CCSP, de la DPA et estimations de la mission.
1  Infrastructures achevees en 1995; superficie irrigable: 2 310 ha.
2 Donnees de l'etude de factibilite.
3 Saison culturale 1996-1997.
4 Prevue 4 ans apres la fin des travaux.
5  B1 principalement.
6 Luzerne principalement.
7 Pomme de terre et carottes/navets.
8 Pommier principalement.
48



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 3. Perimetre du Draal - Superficies cultiv6es
Cultures                 Situation                 Situation                 Situation
"Avant le projet"2    I       actuelle3        |  P&riode de croisiere"4
.........................................................  .......................... h a .
Cdrdales5                             5
LUgumineuses6                        20                       35                        40
Fourrage7                            25                       30                        30
Maraichage8                          10                       20                        25
Arboriculture9                       95                       95                        95
Total                            155                      180                       190
Intensite culturale                 163                      189                       200
Source: Donnees de la CCSP, de la DPA et estimations de la mission.
' Infrastructures achevdes en 1993; superficie irrigable: 95 ha.
2 Donnees de I'etude de factibilitd.
3 Saison culturale 1996-1997.
4 Prdvue 4 ans apres la fin des travaux.
5  Mais principalement.
6 Feves principalement.
7 Luzerne principalement.
s Pomme de terre et carottes/navets principalement.
9 Olivier principalement.
49



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 4. Perimetre de Tizgui N'Targal - Superficies cultivees
Cultures                 Situation                 Situation                 Situation
"Avant le projet'2            actuelle3          Periode de croisi6re"4
.........................................................  .......................... h a .
Cerealess                           600                       600                       650
Mais (en derobd)                    400                       400                       350
Fourrage6                             80                       90                       100
Maraichage'                           50                       60                       100
Arboriculture8                      610                       620                       660
Total                           1 740                    1 770                     1 860
Intensitd culturale                 151                       154                       162
Source: Donnecs de la CCSP, de l'ORMVA et estimations de la mission.
' Infrastructures achevees en 1996; superficie irrigable: 1 150 ha.
2 Donnees de l'dtude de factibilit.
3 Saison culturale 1996-1997.
'  Prevue 4 ans apres la fin des travaux.
5 Ble et orge.
6 Luzerne principalement.
7 Pomme de terre principalement.
8 Amandier principalement.
50



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 5. Pcrimitrc Tazarinc' - Superficics cultivees
Cultures                 Situation                Situation                 Situation
'Avant lc projet"2   I        actuelle3         "Periodc de croisiere "
.........................................................  ......................... h a .
Cereales5                           405                      425                       450
Mais (en d&robc)                     70                       70                        50
LUgumincuscs6                        35                       40                        50
Fourrage7                           110                       120                      150
Maraichagc8                          30                       35                        50
Arboriculture9                      67()                     670                       700
Hennd                                 0                        0                        50
Total                          1 320                     1 360                    1 500
Intensitc culturalc                 163                      168                       185
Source: Donn6cs dc la CCSP, dc l'ORMVA et estimations de la mission.
1 Infrastructurcs achcv6ecs cn 1996; supcrficic irrigable: 810 ha.
2  Donnees dc l'ctudc dc factibilit.
3  Saison culturalc 1996-1997.
4 Prevue 4 ans aprcs la fin dcs travaux,
5 Bid principalcment.
6 Feves principalcnicnt.
7 Luzerne principalcmcnt.
h Pomme de terre principalement.
9 Palmier datticr principalement.
51



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 6. Liste des prix economiques et des facteurs de conversion
Prix economiaucs des cultures selectionnees              DH par Qx
Cereales                                                      170
Paille                                                         30
Mais                                                          150
Feves                                                         300
Vegetation de Idgumineuses                                     60
Luzerne                                                        20
Pomme de terre                                                150
Olives                                                        275
Pommes                                                        150
Amandes                                                     2,000
3atte                                                         500
Henne                                                       2,000
Facteur de conversion pour les couts de production  Facteur de conversion
Intranis                                                     1,0
Travaux du sol                                               1,0
Battagc                                                      1,0
Main-d'ocuvre agricole                                       0,8
Facteur de conversion standard
Couts d'investissement                                       0,9
Couits d'operation                                           0,9
Source:  MAROC - Rapport de pre-evaluation du Projet d'am6nagement de bassins versants
Annexe II: Analyse economique et estimations de la mission.
52



AIDE-MEMOIRS - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 7. Benefices nets economiques "avant le projet" et en "ann6e de croisi&re" par ha
pour les cultures s6lectionn6es
Avant le projet     I     Ann&e de croisier
........................................ DH par ha .
CUraUes                           1 030                        1 390
Mais en derobe                      730                        1 030
Ldgumineuses                      1 260                       3 120
Fourrage                          2 420                       4 140
Maraichage                        6 700                       8 700
Olivier                           4 450                       6 205
Pommier                          11 960                       18 320
Amandier                          8 120                      11 600
Palmier dattier                  16 720                      23 900
Henne                              -                          15 260
Source:     Donn&es technico-economiques relatives aux principales cultures sur perimetres
PM (FAO/CP Fivrier 1997)
53



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 8. Evolution du benefice net 6conomique par ha
pour les quatre types de perimatres silectionnis'
Types de p6rim6tres         Situation                         Ann6W
I "Avant projet"|     1     r      2     I    3       I  4-30
Type Ouled Boukhalfa               3 070          3 706        4 342        5 296       6 250
Type Outat                         3 210          3 906        4 602        5 646       6 690
Type Tazarine etTizgui N'Targa     9480           10602       11 724       13 407      15 090
TypeDraA                           6 110          7 112        8 114        9617       11 120
Source: Tableau% 1 a 5 et 7.
Tableau 9. Evolution des superficies rehabilit&es pour les quatre types de p$rimitres silectionnis
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Type Ouled Boukhalfa    Additionnels   -        -        -        -     6 250   2 802    5 678
CumulIs                                      6 250    9 052   14 730
Type Outat             Additionnels    -        -        -       -        -      2 068    2 310
Cumules     -        -       -        -        -      2 068    4 378
Type Tazarine          Additionnels    -        -        -       -        -        -      2 572
Cumules     -        -        -       -        -        -      2 572
Type DraS              Additionnels    50      110      400      50        75      -        145
CUmUl16    so       160     560      610       685     685       830
Source: CCSP.
Les accroissements annuels ont ete arbitrairement fixes A 20 /o, 20 %, 30 % et 30 % de la difference entre la
situation en periode de croisi&re et la situation avant le projet.
2 Le projet demarre I'annee qui suit la fin des travaux.
54



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 10. Actualisation des coOts du projet'
Taux annuels              Taux
Annees          d'inflation locale         cumules
(%)                   (%)
1989                 3,9                   41,2
1990                 5,7                   36,7
1991                 6,5                   29,3
1992                 4,9                   21,4
1993                 3,6                    15,7
1994                 0,2                   11,7
1995                 7,2                    11,5
1996                 4,0                    4,0
Actualisation calcule sur la base de l'inflation locale pour la totalite du cofit (en monnaie locale et en devises
etrangeres) sur la base de I'hypothese que le differentiel d'inflation (international et local) est compense par les
variations du taux de change du DH.
55



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 11. Couts tconomiques d'investissement et de fonctionnement (en 000 DH constant 1997)1
1989  1 1990      1991  1 1992  1  1993          1994       1995      1996      Total
Couts d'investissement
Wrim6tres du type Ouled       -       5 574    3 500    8 013    14 644     30 393     39 491    21 818    123 433
Boukhalfa2
Nrimdtres du type Outat2      -        -       1 361      839     2 148     11 824     28 777      5 188     50 137
Nrimetres du type             -        -         168      302     1 650      3 460     19 984    10 293      35 857
Tazarmine
P&rim6tres du type DraA2      -        -       3 915    2 336       252        756        155        42       7 456
Nrimetres a epandage de       -      12 008    6 99S    1 556    12 213      7 202      5 441     6 135      51 550
crues2
Equipements et foumitures    176       401        29      306       806        572        508        43       2 841
VWhicules                    -         -        -       3 214     2 866      1 699       -          -         7 779
Formation                     -        -        -         -         199         65        495       -          759
Brigades m6canis&es           -        -      11 441   16 902     2 955        823         52       -        32 173
Total                     176     17 983   27 409   33 468    37 733     56 794     94 903    43 519    311985
"Investissements"
Co&ts de fonctionnement
Brigades m6canis&es           -        -        -       6 293     5 044      3 715      3 307     3 154      21 513
Whicules                    263        712      904       666     1 806        708        924       199       6 182
Total                    263        712       904    6 959     6 850      4 423      4 231      3 353     27 695
"Fonctionnement"
Cout total du projet     439      18 695   28 313   40 427    44 583     61217      99 134    46 872    339 680
Les donnees des Tableaux 1 et 4 de I'Annexe B ont ete actualis&es au moyen des taux du Tableau 10 et corriges
par le facteur de conversion standard.
2 y inclus les coOts d'etudes et de controle des travaux.
56



AIDE-MEMOIRE - ANNEXE B
ANALYSE ECONOMIQUE
Tableau 12. Economies d'entretien des perimetres r6habilit6s
T  1990   1 1991  1 1992 1 1993  1 1994  1 1995    1996    1997   1998-2018
Perimetres du type Ouled       -       -       -       -         -      1 938   2 806    4 566     4 566
Boukhalfa'
Perimetres du type Outat'      -       -       -       -         -        -       517    1 095     1 095
Perimetres du type Tazarine'   -       -       -       -         -        -       -       514        514
Perimetres du type Dra52       -       7       22      78       85        96       96     116        116
Source: Tableau 9 et note de bas de page.
Avant le projet. 12 jours de travail par ha soit 480 DH/ha et par an; avec le projet, 2 % du cofit economique de
rehabilitation soil 170 DH/ha pour Ouled Boukhalfa, 230 DR/ha pour Outat et 280 DR/ha pour Tazarine, soit
une economie avcc le projet de 310 DH/ha pour Ouled Boukhalfa, 250 DH/ha pour Outat et 200 DH/ha pour
Tazarine.
2 Avant le projet, 8 jours de travail par ha soit 320 DH/ha et par an; avec le projet, 2 % du couit economique de
rehabilitation soit 180 DH/ha, soit une economie avec le projet de 140 DR/ha.
57



AIDE-MEMOIRE ANNEXE C
Suivi-6valuation
Introduction
1.        Avant d'analyser les acquis et les faiblesses du suivi-6valuation du projet PMH 2, il est
necessaire de preciser ce qui etait attendu d'un tel systeme. Dans un cadre general et dans le cadre de
ce projet en particulier il faut distinguer le suivi de l'evaluation qui doivent repondre a des besoins
distincts. Le suivi est un outil de gestion en cours d'execution du projet permettant de faire le point du
niveau d'execution des programmes d'activites. L'evaluation doit permettre de juger si les effets et
impacts attendus ont et obtenus; ses resultats, utiles pour arneliorer la mise en valeur des perimetres
r6habilit6s, seront egalement utilises pour ameliorer la preparation de programmes ult6rieurs.
2.        L'Annexe 9 du rapport d'evaluation fait bien la distinction entre:
-    les indicateurs de suivi, lies aux activit6s de rehabilitation et aux services d'appui
fournis par la Cellule de coordination et de suivi du projet (CCSP) et ses partenaires;
et
-    les criteres d'evaluation, 1ies a la mise en valeur des perimetres par les b6neficiaires
du programme (production, revenus, rentabilite economique).
3.        Le rapport d'evaluation precise que 'les principales activites de la cellule consisteront A:.
(c) suivre l'execution du projet, 6tablir des rapports semestriels sur l'ex6cution des travaux; et (d)
suivre l'avancement des travaux dans tous les p6rimetres de 1 000 ha et plus et dans un sondage de 20
% des perimetres de moins de 1 000 ha. Ce suivi portera sur toutes les phases de l'execution du projet
et sur le developpement agro-economique ulterieur. nI englobera le suivi de la formation des
Associations d'usagers. ... De maniere independante la Direction de la planification et des affaires
economiques (DPAE) effectuera, A l'achevement du projet, une enquete par sondage sur les effets
economiques et sociaux du projet."
4.        Le suivi du programme de rehabilitation a ete r6alise de fagon satisfaisante et les rapports
d'avancement periodiques ont donne une infonnation reguliere sur 1'execution physique des differentes
phases. La collecte de donnees relative aux criteres d'evaluation a pose plus de problemes et merite une
analyse plus detaill6e.
Systemes d'information prevus
5.        Pour le suivi du developpement agro-economique ainsi que le suivi de la formation et du
fonctionnement des Associations d'usagers des eaux agricoles (AUEA), un systeme d'information a ete
developpe en 1994 lors d'une mission de consultation. Celui-ci a 6t6 conqu comme un systeme de
gestion et d'aide A la prise de decision pour les differents niveaux concemes par le programme (AUEA,
CT ou CMV, DPA ou ORMVA, CCSP). I1 comporte des donnees sur les productions veg6tales et
58



animales et leur commercialisation, sur les ressources en eau et sur le suivi administratif et comptable
des AUEA. Les informations relatives A la production, basees sur les d6clarations des producteurs
devraient etre croisees avec une collecte de donnees effectu6e par la DPAE sur un echantillon
d'exploitations. Cinq perimetres ont ete retenus pour une phase test
Execution
6.         Pour la mise en place de chacun de ces deux systemes, la CCSP en collaboration avec la
DPAE a organise des ateliers sur le terrain afin d'mformer et de sensibiliser les principales personnes
concemres par la mise en oeuvre de ces systemes. Dans les deux cas, des agents des centres de travaux
ont ete responsabilises pour la collecte des informations.
7.         Sur les cinq DPA concernees, deux ont collecte et transmis des donnees sur la base de
l'ancien systeme pour les deux campagnes 6coulees (Boulemen, perimetre de Guigou et Taza,
perimetre de Tazrout) et deux autres ont applique le systeme minimum pour la campagne 95/96 (Beni
Mellal, perimetre de Zaouit Echeikh et Azilal, perimetre de Tamarguet). Seule la DPA de Marrakech
n'a transmis aucune information. Sur la base des systemes d'information proposes, la CCSP dispose
donc actuellement de donnees relatives A deux p6rimLTes pour la campagne 94/95 et A quatre
perimetres pour la campagne 95/96.
8.         Les donnees de la campagne 94/95 ont 6te saisies par la CCSP selon un format propose par
la DPAE pour permettre un traitement sur un logiciel d'analyse statistique. Considerant le faible
nombre de variables collectees et la taille des echantillons, cette option est certainement trop ambitieuse.
Un tableur, plus facilement utilisable par un non statisticien, suffit amplement pour effectuer les
analyses necessaires et presenter les resultats.
9.         La collecte de donnees selon des procedures habituelles des services statistiques (releve
topographique et carres de rendement) destinee A apprecier la fiabilite des informations collect6es via
les declarations des producteurs n'a pas ete effectuee. Les moyens A mettre en oeuvre pour l'execution
d'un tel travail seraient disproportionnes par rapport au faible nombre de donnees disponibles,
actuellement et dans un futur proche.
10.        Enfin, pour Ia preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet, il a ete demande aux services
provmciaux de rassembler, entre autres, les informations relatives aux superficies emblav6es et aux
rendements de la campagne 95/96 pour 7 des 39 perimetres rehabilites durant la deuxieme phase du
projet. Des donnees de precision variable ont 6te foumies pour cinq p6rimetres.
Constatant les difficultis d'application du dispositif propose, la mission BIRD/KfW de mars 1996 a recommande une
simplification de ce systeme en reduisant a deux niveaux la structure du systeme d'information (AUJEA 4 CCSP) et en
limitant l'information au minimum necessaire pour une dvaluation de l'impact sur la production et de la situation
financiere des AUEA. Cinq perimetres (trois deja retenus par le premier systeme et deux nouveaux) ont ete retenus
pour appliquer ce systeme.
59



Contraintes rencontrees
Systemes d'information
11.       Le systeme d'information pour le suivi de la mise en valeur des perimetres et celui destine
au suivi des AUEA ont 6te libs dans les systemes propos6s. Cependant les niveaux d'utilisation, meme
s'ils peuvent etre complementaires, ainsi que les contraintes d'application de ces deux systemes, sont
differents:
-    le responsable du suivi des AUEA doit savoir ce que devient chacune de celles qui
ont 6te form6es mais vu leur nombre croissant il ne peut les visiter toutes
regulierement; il doit donc s'organiser pour disposer r6gulierement d'un minimum
de donnees sur 1'ensemble des associations; en sa quafite de 7eme membre du
bureau, le representant de I'administration doit disposer de cette information et peut
la transmettre facilement;
-    la collecte des informations necessaires pour un suivi-evaluation de la mise en valeur
demande un travail specifique relativement contraignant et de ce fait il ne peut etre
envisage sur 1'ensemble des perimetres. A des fins d'evaluation la disponibilite de
donnees sur un echantillon representatif de p6rimetres serait suffisante.
Mlthodologie
12.       Afin de tenir compte des contraintes liees a la collecte des donnees sur la production
agricole (absence de moyens specifiques), la taille des echantillons proposes etait limitee a
30 exploitations par AUEA. Une rapide analyse des donnees disponibles montre que cet echantillon est
insuffisant pour obtenir des informations extrapolables au niveau du perimetre. En effet, on constate une
tres forte variation entre les superficies exploitees par agriculteur au seim d'un meme perimetre et, pour
une speculation donnee, on enregistre rarement plus des deux tiers des exploitants qui la pratiquent.
Moyens
13.       Les systemes d'information reposent a la base sur les 7emes membres des AUEA mais
ceux-ci, principalement agents des CT, ne disposent que de peu de moyens de fonctionnement; si le CT
n'est pas situe A proximit6 immediate du perimetre, le manque de moyens de deplacements est mis en
avant pour justifier la difficult6 de collecte. La DPA de Boulemane a pallie a cette contrainte par la mise
a disposition du CT d'un vehicule.
Organisation
14.       L'absence d'analyse des donnees a la fin de la campagne 94/95, meme si elles ne
concernaient que deux p6rimetres, n'a pas permis de tenter d'am6liorer l'approche methodologique
proposee.
60



15.        Les services provinciaux  directement concemrs par la mise en valeur ont ete
insuffisamment associes dans la conception du systeme et ne se sont pas sentis concernes par son
utilisation. Les agents devant participer au systeme d'information dependent de differentes Directions
du MAMVA au niveau central: les CT dependent de la DERD, les SPA dependent de la DPA et les
destinataires finaux dependent de la DAHA. Les passerelles entre ces differentes Directions ont e
insuffisantes pour mobiliser les ressources necessaires.
Leqons pour le futur
16.        Le suivi des associations et la collecte de donnees pour 1'evaluation de l'impact de la
rehabilitation sur la mise en valeur agricole et les revenus des producteurs doivent 8tre dissocies. Si la
collecte de donnees sur la mise en valeur peut 8tre effectu6e sur un 6chantillon repr6sentatif de
perimetres, le systeme d'information pour le suivi des associations doit etre operationnel pour
1'ensemble d'entre elles afin que la cellule d'appui aux AUEA, devant 8tre cr66e au sein de l'AGR,
puisse organiser convenablement son programme d'intervention. Les donnees necessaires pour ce suivi
sont d'ailleurs facilement accessibles car elles ne reposent sur aucun 6chantillonnage, mesure ou
estimation. En sa qualite de 7eme membre du bureau, le representant de I'administration devra assurer
la disponibilite et la transmission des informations de base sur la vie inteme de I'association, sa situation
financi&re, les principales activites menees notamment en matiere d'entretien du reseau.
17.        La methodologie d'6chantillonnage pour la collecte de donnees sur la mise en valeur doit
etre revue afin d'obtenir des informations exploitables. L'option de renouveler l'6chantillon chaque
campagne doit 8tre supprimee. En maintenant le meme echantillon, 1'erreur de sondage sera maintenue
au meme niveau d'une annee sur l'autre et les donn6es, meme si elles ne pourront toujours pas etre
extrapolees a l'ensemble du perimetre, pourront 8tre comparees d'une annee sur l'autre. Les principales
analyses possibles concemeront l'evolution de l'assolement des exploitations et I'6volution des
rendements. Les donnees disponibles devront etre systematiquement analysees et ces analyses devront
etre restituees vers les services provinciaux afin qu'ils jugent de l'inter8t d'am.liorer et de poursuivre
leur collecte.
18.        La DPAE a montr6 depuis le debut de la premiere phase du projet beaucoup de difficult6s
a executer, avec ses ressources propres, les etudes necessaires a l'evaluation de l'impact. Vu l'inter8t
Ibgitime porte par l'administration pour l'obtention d'informations concretes sur l'impact des
programmes PMH sur la production agricole et le revenu des agriculteurs, un fonds d'etude specifique
doit etre mobilise pour garantir leur disponibilit6. Ces etudes, r6alisees de fa,on ponctuelle sur un
echantillon de perimetres rehabilites seraient coordonnees par la DPAE avec la collaboration du service
suivi-evaluation et du service rehabilitation de l'AGR. La situation, au moins deux campagnes apres la
rehabilitation, serait comparee a la situation 'avant projet"telle qu'etablie dans les etudes de factibilite
notamment dans les chapitres consacres a l'6tude de la situation actuelle et a l'6tude agro-6conornique
et developpement agricole.
61






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR






'97 04/30 16:51         2 520 42   MAMUA DAHA          02
ROYAUME DU MAROC
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
SECOND PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PETITE ET MOYENNE
HYDRAUUQUE
SECTION 11 CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
-0-
Douxibme partie: Ansavse du DrQiet du Doint dg vue de
I'Eml2ruMuX
A.Confwrmation  des donn6es factuslies contenues do  la
promlIr. et Is troisime partie, observations sur I'anslyse contenue
danrs h premibre partle.
1 .L'ensemble des donn6es de la PremAire et de la
Troisibme Partie concorde avec les donn6es disponibles A la Direction
du projet.
2. observations sur l'analyse
(Section 1 ..age 4 et paragraphe 13)
L'analyse du fcnctionnerrent des brigades rnmcariis6es
ne doit pas se baser uniquement sur les superficies annuolles des
p6rimbtres qui ont fait l'objet d'intervention des engins mais elie doit
aussi porter sur la nombre et l',Mpcrtance-des-op6rations effectu6es
par chaque type d'engin au niveau des diff6rents p6rimbtres.
L'intervention des brigades m6canis6es a 6t6 coniue
avec la participation des Associations des Usagers des Eaux Agricoles
aux frais de fonctionnement pour les op6rations urgentes de
restauration de certains ouvrages d'irrigation endommag4s par les
crues  notamment dans les p6rimbtres d'6pandage dans lesquels le
nombre et l'importance des crues capt4es conditionnent la prodction
agricole.
B-Bilan des actions de la Hanque Mandlale et de la KFW
La Banque at la KFW orit  participd activement a sever
plusieurs contraintes lors de 1'ex4cution du projet, et ceci nar le
nombre important des missions de concertations qu'elkis ont



'97 04/30 16:51          5 520 42    MAMUA DAHA          03
organis6es. La contrainte majeure ayant 6t6 soulev6e est celle de la
r6duction budg6taire et la mise en place d'un fond de roulement au
niveau de la Tr6sorerie G6n6rale du Royaume.
C-BIlan des actions de l'Emprunteur:
Le  Gouvernement du  Maroc a donna une grande
importance A la r6alisation des actions du projet vu son importance en
mati6re do d6veloppoment de l'agriculture irrigu6e dans les p6rimAtres
de petite et moyenne taille.
Los efforts d6ploy6s par le Gouvernament Marocain so
r6sument comme suit:
* mobilisation d'un maximum  de fonds disponible durant la
p6riode de I'ex6cution du projet;
0 affectation des cadres supdrieurs comp6tents dans les
divers domaines;
I organisation satisfaisante de la gestion du projet au
nivesi central at r6gional qui a 6te bas6e sur les lei9ons tir6es du
premier Projet de d6veloppement de Ia Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique
* cr6ation d'une structi.tre de coordination (comit6s)
compos6e de diff6rents intet venants et de bdn6ficiaires du erojet
(Comit6s Provincial et Directeur);
Promulgation  dfls vex-!s.m.. r6glementaires r6d3Ssant
1'organisation des agriculteurs dans los p6rimbtres irrigu6s en Petite et
Moyenne Hydraulique en Association des Usagers des Eaux Agricoles
pour la prise en charge des frais d'entretien et de gestion avec une
participation   aux   premiers  investissemants   consentis  par
t'Administration pour la r6atisation de l'infrastructure d'irrigation.
D-Relation entre la Banquo mondiale I KFW et I'Empruntaur
Dans le cadre du projet de d4veloppement de la Petite et
Moyenne hydraulique, las relations entrs Ie Gouvernement Maro, ain,
A diff6rents niveaux ont 6t6 excellqntes, ce qui a facilit6 l'ex6cution
du projet en question.



No. du      Nom du                                                                                                   fediertcutecrt Sea
perlmethe    perlmehe                                                                    I         1I
/   T"felouan
A1.1        Gulgou                                                                          A 3.2_m              Al Hocelma    <INador
A1.2        Amkzmkz                                                                               0Chechdouen--'er5->,"tcas o217-
A1.3        A. Messoud                                                                / oKsa H Keblh                               *;B 2.15
81.4        Agadlr tahna                                                             /OK"carr
A2.1        Echelkh                                                                 /Sk  tcimb    e0
A2.2        Mouzrou                                                                    -(taounate                             A 2.4            d
A2.4        Zobzli                                                                 Sfd Kcce:- __                 ota            a     c 0  CIA 2.8
A2.5        7omgt.erl                                                     K(enllia    SllKicmrz                                     U 
A2.6        Ilzgul N'arga                                                  Sal -e7     i       bs '                 D              A3.4  MA 3.3
A2.7        lazarine                                                   PAtAI)                          r      A(3 D  A  3
A2.8        Bolmot Jamoa d                                                 I i                                                                I s                              v
A2.9        Targa Wassay                                                       Khemissel         Mekne5                                      Mdthci
B13        lagadiri                                   Casablanca  -'                                                                                                         rn
82.14       Gendlr                                                    Benl SlIlmane             trAzc0      le                                                                z
B2,15       Dra                                El Jadldav     e                                             Bouleman                                                          C
82.17       Aln Jouala                                '3                                                    6 t
82.18       litarmaouas       A TLA  N TIC          ,/S  \ /.5
52.19       Ain Halbal           OCEA N           /SeNal'Kher                                                        MA 35
A3.1        Oulat                                                       Khourlbga *EB2.119 *B3h e r                                                                            I
A3.2        Kilan Yarghil                                        .r                 <        4 2.1-    MddloUA3.1
A3.3        Gafall t                                                                        A . 
A3.4        Mostlgmour                   Sall .             l oad                     A.6.                                                                                    0
A3.5        O. Boukhall                                    El Kelaa des               enl Mel   l _    
A3.6        A. H. Fatalaa                                      Stathna0          -.  A44.4                     *           A4.2W                                             f-I.
A3.7        Touroug                                                           (Azrtaf                          o 7                                                           O
A3.8        laghlcht                  /      lsill             A 2.2  K A Ei Sp4aghna                          ErachYdla
B3.9        latahyani        Essaoulra                     A,        M  "     *EA2.5                  Gotdrno                                                               0
A4.1        Talghoumi                                 Marokech    A 4.1    1 2.15           f          A 3 J El     o  /                                                     C
Ta2 gullounl                                                                                                                                                           U ltudr
A4.2         aounh                                   A 1.21_                              Kdo'l Mgok a                               PEIERIMEIRES
A4.3        Bouhlou                                 Anin11%     A 4.7        A 2.0 *                                                                                          F.
A4.4        Tlzgut                                                                                                                   PerenneF,                               C/)
A4.6        Palmerale Aka                                                      O /   rjM  uarzazalo             -e
A4.7   Amkmk 2                           ~~~~~~~oued 9C y      ;    \__t
A4.7        AmIzmtz 2                                                    znktIUtl              M MA 2.7  /                       Q  Epandage de crues            v
Note:                                           PT                        0 @                                                                                                0 
Note:                          .    .-~~~~~~ .~g daroudtannt                                  A/    00h
Les petdm6tres A2.3, B2.10.     AgadCDr  +   2.1                                                                                  A >100 haC5
52.11, 82.12. 2.16. 53.10             7                                                                                                                                      CD
et B3.11 ne sont pas localls6s                            6B 2.13                                                                 6 < to0 ha                                 2
dons la carte                                                                                                                                                                 C  D
/Q leligoul t1ala t
0TIznlt                O+-..
/   '30lknil   * g 1.4  >;                               Q  Si4ge de DRA
NA2.9                 *A4.6
Qv  rQ OA 3. 3                j                                                                   *; Slego de OMVA
/ Guelmime      F,, C      . -
[IA  3         El H                                                                Frontl6re Inlemalonaole
- -  -  Fhontlre Inlemnallonale (approxlmatlve)
Ton-Te n.       oue      -                                                                        Chef lleu de ptovInce
/                         |                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SO    IOU   I SO Krn
TC1397-61/MAROCLAW















IMAGING
Report No:            16601
Type:       ICR



