Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2954 MOR
        (Second Small- and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 27, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2954 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1989, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower  intends  to  obtain  from external sources
(the Cofinanciers)  funds  in  an  aggregate  amount equivalent to
$11,800,000 (the Cofinance)  to  assist  in  financing part of the
Project on the terms and  conditions  set forth in agreements (the
Cofinancing Agreements) to  be  entered  into between the Borrower
and each of the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-project" means any  project  for the rehabilitation
and/or upgrading of an irrigation scheme  to be carried out by the
Borrower through a DPA or an ORMVA  under Part A of the Project in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  3.02  (b)  of this
Agreement;
     (b)  "MARA" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform;
     (c)  "DER" means the Directorate for Rural Engineering within
MARA;
     (d)  "SPMH"  means  the  unit  within  the  Rural Development
Division of DER  responsible  for  the  development  of small- and
medium-scale irrigation schemes;
     (e)  "DPAs" means the  Provincial Directorates of Agriculture
within MARA and "DPA" means individually, any of the DPAs;
     (f)  "ORMVAs"  means  the  Regional  Agricultural Development
Authorities established and  operating  pursuant to the Borrower's
Law (Dahir) No. 1-74-238 dated April 23, 1975 and Decrees (Decret)
No. 827-66, 828-66, 829-66, 830-66, 831-66, 832-66 or 833-66, each
dated October 22, 1966 and No. 2-70-157 dated October 8, 1970; and
"ORMVA" means individually, any of the ORMVAs;
     (g)  "Consultative   Coordinating    Committee"   means   the
committee  established  and  maintained  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of paragraph  1  of  Schedule  5  to the Loan Agreement
dated June 29, 1983 between the Borrower and the Bank for a Small-
and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan No. 2253 MOR);
     (h)  "Project Coordination  and  Monitoring  Unit"  means the
unit established within SPMH and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph  2  of  Schedule  5  to the Loan Agreement
dated June 29, 1983 between the Borrower and the Bank for a Small-
and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan No. 2253 MOR);
     (i)  "Irrigation Water Users'  Association" means, in respect
of each Sub-project, an association of all farmers utilizing water
distributed through the irrigation  scheme  to be rehabilitated or
upgraded under such Sub-project, established pursuant to Part B of
Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (j)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "ha" means hectares; and
     (l)  "DH" or "Dirhams" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to twenty-three
million dollars ($23,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in Dirhams a  special account in the Treasury of
the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance  on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits  into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial,  technical,  engineering and irrigation
Page  4
practices,  and  appropriate   safety,  health  and  environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Without limitation  upon the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement,  and  except  as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  coordinate, supervise and  monitor  the overall carrying
out of the Project  in  accordance with guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, including those set forth or referred to in Section I of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  ensure that Sub-projects shall  be appraised and carried
out  in  accordance  with  guidelines  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
including those set forth  or  referred  to  in Section II of said
Schedule 5.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
Page  5
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during  such   fiscal   year,   together   with  the
              procedures and internal  controls  involved in their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as  the  Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (a) in respect  of each Sub-project, the Borrower
shall: (i) establish and thereafter at all times maintain a system
of  charges  designed  to  ensure  the  recovery  of  100%  of the
expenditures incurred by the Borrower  on  account of the costs of
operation and maintenance  of  the irrigation scheme rehabilitated
and/or upgraded under such  Sub-project  and  not less than 10% of
the expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  on  account  of the
capital costs of said scheme, over  a  period of 30 years from the
date of completion of such  Sub-project  at an interest rate of at
least 4% per annum, including a  grace period of 3 years; and (ii)
collect, commencing on the date of completion of such Sub-project,
such  charges  from   the   Irrigation  Water  Users'  Association
established in respect of said irrigation scheme.
     (b)  (i)   prepare and not  later  than  December  31 of each
                year commencing December 31,  1990, furnish to the
                Bank for the Bank's review, the proposed system of
                charges to be  established  and collected pursuant
                to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  during  the
                following  next  year,   together  with  all  such
                information pertaining  thereto  as  the  Bank may
                reasonably request;  (ii)  in  the  preparation of
                said   schedule,    ensure    that,   insofar   as
                practicable,  said  charges  are  progressive, and
                take  account,  inter   alia,   of  the  financial
                capacity of the  members  of  the Irrigation Water
                Users'    Association     and     incentives    to
                participation, and are based upon realistic values
                obtained by revaluation  at appropriate intervals;
                (iii) review, with the  Bank,  at intervals of not
                more than three  years,  the  nature and levels of
                the  elements  included  in  such  charges, taking
                account  of  changing  price  levels,  and  to the
                extent that the  conclusions  of said review shall
                so indicate,  revise  such  charges appropriately;
                and (iv) maintain separate  accounts for the costs
                recovered   from   the   Irrigation   Water  Users
                Association by such  charges,  and  furnish to the
                Bank annual reports thereon.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Cofinancing Agreements  shall  have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990,  or  such  later  date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i) Subject to subparagraph  (ii) of this paragraph: (A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or
loan, including  the  Cofinance,  made  to  the  Borrower  for the
financing of the Project  shall  have been suspended, cancelled or
Page  6
terminated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant  to  the terms of the
agreement providing therefor;  or  (B)  any  such  loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.  (ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) shall not  apply  if the Borrower establishes to
the  satisfaction  of   the   Bank   that:  (A)  such  suspension,
cancellation, termination  or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
failure of the Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations under
such  agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for  the  Project are
available  to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of  this  Agreement  shall  occur,   subject  to  the  proviso  of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the staff referred to in Section I B.2 (b) of Schedule
5  to  this  Agreement   have   been   appointed  to  the  Project
Coordination and Monitoring Unit in accordance with the provisions
of said Section I.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTERE FINANCES               31936M
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  7
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                   By /s/ A. Bengelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                16,900,000      80%
(2)  Equipment,                  2,600,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles and                               expenditures,
     materials                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Training and                1,000,000      100%
     consultants'
     services
(4)  Unallocated                 2,500,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 23,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $250,000, may
Page  8
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to: (1) increase agricul-
tural production  through  the  rehabilitation  and maintenance of
traditional small- and  medium-scale  irrigation  schemes; and (2)
strengthen  institutional   capabilities   in   relation   to  the
rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of such schemes.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Schemes
     The preparation and carrying out through the ORMVAs and DPAs,
in accordance with  the  guidelines  set  forth  or referred to in
Section II  of  Schedule  5  to  this  Agreement,  of  projects to
rehabilitate and/or upgrade irrigation schemes.
Part B:   Equipment and Vehicles
(1)  The  provision  to  the   ORMVAs  and  DPAs  of  earth-moving
transport and related equipment  required  for the maintenance and
repair of flood irrigation systems.
(2)  The provision to the  DPAs,  of office equipment and supplies
and light vehicles required in the carrying out of Sub-projects.
(3)  The  provision  to  SPMH  of  light  vehicles,  canal gauging
material and office equipment and supplies.
Part C:   Training and Studies
(1)  The carrying out of a  training program to enhance the skills
of the staff of DER and the DPAs.
(2)  The carrying out  through  DER  of  a  field study to develop
appropriate methods of farming in areas irrigated by floods.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
February 15, 1994                                      420,000
August 15, 1994                                        435,000
February 15, 1995                                      455,000
August 15, 1995                                        470,000
February 15, 1996                                      490,000
August 15, 1996                                        505,000
February 15, 1997                                      525,000
August 15, 1997                                        545,000
February 15, 1998                                      570,000
August 15, 1998                                        590,000
February 15, 1999                                      615,000
August 15, 1999                                        635,000
February 15, 2000                                      660,000
August 15, 2000                                        685,000
February 15, 2001                                      715,000
August 15, 2001                                        740,000
February 15, 2002                                      770,000
Page  9
August 15, 2002                                        800,000
February 15, 2003                                      830,000
August 15, 2003                                        860,000
February 15, 2004                                      895,000
August 15, 2004                                        930,000
February 15, 2005                                      965,000
August 15, 2005                                      1,005,000
February 15, 2006                                    1,040,000
August 15, 2006                                      1,080,000
February 15, 2007                                    1,125,000
August 15, 2007                                      1,165,000
February 15, 2008                                    1,210,000
August 15, 2008                                      1,270,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  10
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)  Except  as  provided   in   sub-paragraph  (b)  of  this
paragraph 1, works estimated to  cost  less than the equivalent of
$1,500,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Works estimated  to  cost  less  than  the equivalent of
$55,000, to be carried out  under an individual Sub-project, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000 for
all Sub-projects, may be carried out by the Borrower's own forces,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   (a)  Goods estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of $12,500 or
more per contract but  less  than  the  equivalent of $200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $300,000, may be procured  under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Goods estimated  to  cost  less  than  the equivalent of
$12,500 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  comparison  of  price  quotations  solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or  more, and with respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
Page  11
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Section I:  Project Organization
     The guidelines set forth  in  this  Section I shall apply for
purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
A.   In order to ensure the proper coordination of the departments
and agencies of the Borrower  responsible  for the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall  maintain at all times the Consul-
tative Coordination  Committee  with  organization, membership and
terms of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. The Consultative
Coordination Committee shall meet at  least  once a year to review
progress in carrying out  the  Project  and  to resolve policy and
other issues which may arise during Project implementation.
B.   1.   In order  to  ensure  the  proper  carrying  out  of the
Project, the Borrower shall  maintain  at all times throughout the
implementation of the Project,  a  Project manager with qualifica-
tions, experience, powers and  terms  of reference satisfactory to
the Bank,  to  be  responsible,  inter  alia,  for  the selection,
appraisal, and coordination  and  supervision  of the carrying out
of, Sub-projects. The Project manager  shall be responsible to the
chief of the SPMH and shall  be assisted at all times by competent
staff in  such  numbers  as  shall  be  necessary  for  the proper
execution of his responsibilities.
2.   To this end, the  Borrower  shall:  (a) maintain at all times
the  Project  Coordination  and  Monitoring  Unit  with  terms  of
reference  satisfactory  to  the   Bank  and  with  qualified  and
experienced staff  in  adequate  numbers,  to  assist  the Project
manager in appraisals, monitoring  and evaluation of Sub-projects;
and (b) without  limitation  upon  the  foregoing,  appoint to the
Project Coordination and  Monitoring  Unit  and  thereafter at all
times maintain, the following qualified and experienced staff: one
civil engineer specialized  in  irrigation, one agro-economist and
one sociologist.
Section II:  Sub-projects: Guidelines for Approval and
             Implementation
     The guidelines set forth in  this  Section II shall apply for
purposes of Section 3.02 (b) of  this  Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
     Each Sub-project shall be carried out only after:
A.   The  Borrower  shall  have  determined,  on  the  basis  of a
feasibility  study  carried  out  in  accordance  with  guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, that:
1.   at least 60% of  the  farms  served  by the irrigation scheme
included in the Sub-project are smaller  than: (a) 10 ha., if said
scheme is supplied by perennial  sources  of water; or (b) 20 ha.,
if said scheme is supplied by other sources of water;
Page  12
2.   at least 50% of the  area  served  by said scheme consists of
farms which satisfy the  criteria  set  forth  in paragraph (1) of
this Part;
3.   the Sub-project is technically feasible;
4.   the Sub-project is calculated  to:  (i) have an economic rate
of return of at least 12% if  the area served by said scheme is at
least 100 ha.; or (ii) cost not more than the equivalent of $1,500
(in constant 1987  prices)  per  ha.  if  the  area served by said
scheme is less than 100 ha.;
5.   the Sub-project is estimated to  be completed in a period not
exceeding 2 years; and
6.   the Sub-project is  designed  in  accordance with appropriate
safety, health  and  environmental  standards  satisfactory to the
Bank.
B.   An Irrigation Water  Users'  Association has been established
and the Borrower has  concluded  arrangements with said Irrigation
Water Users'  Association  satisfactory  to  the  Bank designed to
ensure the proper  carrying  out  of  said Sub-project, the proper
operation and maintenance of said scheme and the establishment and
application  of  a   system   of   charges   which  satisfies  the
requirements set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
C.   The Bank  shall  have  notified  the  Borrower  of the Bank's
agreement to the carrying out of such Sub-project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to DH 12,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
Page  13
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
