Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLL USE ONLY
Ropt No. 12541
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1455-BD)
NOVEMBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12541
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restrictes distribution and may be used bS recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALET
-  ~~      -      ~SAR       Current
(Feb. 1984)  (April 1993)
US$1                                 Tk 25.00    Tk -39.00
Tk I                                 US$ 0.040   US$ 0.025
Tkc 1 million                        US$40,000  US$ 25,641
WEIGHTS ANM MEASUREi
1 acre (ac)              =     0.405 hectare (ha)
I mound (md)             =     82,27 lbs(37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =    26.8 md
M                        -    million
B                        -    billion
ABBREVIATIQNS AND ACRONYMS
ARP               Agricultural Research Project
BARC              Bangladesh Agricultural Rtesearch Council
BARI              Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BFRI              Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
BLRI              Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRI               Fisheries Research Institute
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
C:OB              Govemment of Bangladesh
IDA               International Development Association
M & E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA               Ministry of Agriculture
MOEF              Ministry of Environment and Forest
MOFL              Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
PCR               Project Completion Report
PP                Project Proforma
PPAR              Project Performance Audit Report
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
TA                Technical Assistance
T&V               Training and Visitation
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



Ik)R OFMCITAL U ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W:ashinaton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic of Otrnotoronerul
Opertons Evauton
November 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Aaricultural Research Proiect (Credit 1455-BD)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 1 455-BD) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part 11 of the
report was prepared by the Borrower.
The project continued the development of the Bangladesh agricultural research
system which had been supported under an earlier Bank project, and gave additional emphasis
to livestock, forestry and fisheries research. The overall outcome is rated as satisfactory, but
the institutional management aspects of the project did not evolve to be as effective as
intended, and the recurrent funding arrangements were heavily dependent on the use of
tagged funds through a USAID PL480 facility. Consequently, the long-term sustainability of
the system is uncertain, although a third project in support of the research system is nearing
appraisal and may be able to consolidate appropriate institutional and funding arrangements.
The Project Completion Report is forthright and comprehensive.
The project is currently being audited in a cluster of Bangladeshi projects covering
both research and extension investments.
Attachment
This document has a rected dstbtion nd may be used by repent only In th perfonace of
thi offclc duties Its contents may not otherwis be disdosed wthout Wodd Bank sutorato.



FOR OMCIL& USE ONLY
POnEC= MMMfiSMI Rue=B
Mc=0N AGRRamI]iUAL Rfffi&CEIlC
(Credit NH,lMUM
TABL E OFOgN7E=
PREFACE   ...... ............. - i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......                               ....         ............. Hi,
PARTI:PROJECTREVIEWFROM IDA'SPERSECTIVB ........... 1
PI'rject Mentkyrn . ............ ....  ..... . . ..  .: . . .......*..... I1
prQect Objectves, D)esciption and Cost .......*....................2
P3rcqectTDesip  and Orgnization  ..*.  c c...... I         o  cc .   c       .     ....
I'oect                                                                                    .3
EWect                Bacd6
lPicq   cRest1ts .    . . .    . .*     ........ .. ......... c...
PnrojectS..ta.                              ..bi...... .....2........ e        q       .  6
ID~APerformnance . . .......            *..........*c.................... .7
Boffower Performance .7            .......      .....................
lsn  Leamed 8..........                                                       c
Consulting Services .c...  c......              c c......c c.................... .9
ProjRetions.ip............. c ........ c                             ...      ......   .9
Poect aDoc        a nnd Data  .1............  0* .                .. ..         .         10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S ESPECVE........ 11
PART m:  rTIA L IN"IFORM(AX'ION   c...                              .c.. .. . ..        . 15
Related IDA Credits  ................ c....  .... ............. 15
Projectlmetable  .........e. .............. c .                             .....       . 15
Credit Disbursements ..c.................................... 16
Project                  ..e.etain   c.....e*  .e.. #.# ........ ** ..cc.... cc... 17
Project Cost and Financing  ................c.................. 20
PtqectResut    ......................  21
SausofCovenants ......... .............................. 22
Use ofIDA Resouixes  ...             .      .      ...... c................. 22
MAP IBRD 17139
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



B
SECNDAGRICULTRL RESEARCHIRQ
(Credit No. 1455-BD)
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultral Research
Project in Bangladesh for which Credit 1455-BD in the amount of SDR 23.4 million, equivalent
to US$ 24.5 million, was approved in March 1984. The Credit became effective in April 1985
and closed on June 30, 1992, following three extensions, 2½ years behind schedule. Actual
disbursements amounted to SDR 14.6 million, or 62% of the Credit amount. A disbursement
grace period of four months (to October 31, 1992) was allowed for expenditures incurred by
June 30, 1992. The final undisbursed balance of SDR 1.8 million was canceled on November
19, 1992.
The PCR (Preface, EvalWation Summary, Parts I and Ill) was prepared by a Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)IWorld Bank Cooperative Program
missionl that visited Bangladesh from January 18 to February 4, 1993. The Borrower
contributed Prt I.
The PCR (Parts I and 111) is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the
Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports; project files held in Dhala contning
inter alia co ondence between the Intranal Development Association (IDA) and the
Borrower; internal IDA memoranda; documentation provided by the implementing agencies;
fld visits to selected project sites; and discusions with project staff and IDA staff assoiated
with project implementation.
Messrs. 1M. Sugimura (Agronomist, Mission leader) and D.C.M. Corkett (Research
Management specialist. Consultant).



PRO.EC COMPLETwION REPORT
SECOND AGRICULTA BESEARCH PROJECT
(Creit 1455-BD)
EYALWATIQ SQREWY
ProWect Obhjatives
i.    The main objectJves of the project were to consolidate improvements in the research
infastructure and research management systems made under the first IlDA-supported Agricultum. 
Research Project (ARP-I, Cr. 828-BD). In particular, it was intended to provide continued
support fo the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB) efforts to develop a strong research
planing, coordinating and monitoring organization at the Bangladesh Agricultual Research
Council (BARC), bringing livestock, forestry and fisheries more effectively into the national
research system, and to strengthen the national research station network.
ii.   The main activities to be supported were: strengthening BARC through additional
acilits, including buildings and an Information Center, and extra senor staff, as well as
improving BARC's financial management and accounting procedures; a BARC-administered
Contract Research to fund priority research initiatives; construction of office and laboratry
buildings and provision of equipment, machinery and vehicles for Bangladesh Agrcutur
Resarch Institute (BARI, Bangladeh Forestry Research Institute (BRIU), Bangladesh iUvestock
Research Istute (BLRI), and the Fisaeries Research Institute (FRI); profesonal and technical
taining and trig in research management; and technical assstance in severa key areas.
iii.   The institutes to be sped by the project were chosen so as to bing livestock,
fisheres and forestry within an integrated agricultal research service. Support for the already
established BARI was limnted to improvng its capacity to carry out research at regionil
outstations.
Implementation Experience
iv.   Delays were experinced in implementing all components, essentially because of delays
in meetng effectiveness conditions. Delays in approval by BARC of contract research proposals
(subnutted by the relevant research institutes) led to disbursements of contract resch funds
direct to institutes; in effect, these funds were used to top up local opeational funds. Delays in
approving the selection of candidates for training led to much of the taining budget remaining
unused.



iv
v.    With tfie exception of technical assistance and BLRI and FRI support, all other
components failed to meet their esdmated expenditure targets: contract research and staff
development and training were particularly underspent. Planned civil works were not completed
at FRI or at the new fisheries research station in Khulna.
vi.  In US dollar terms, the actual project cost over eight years including the extended penod
of 21/ years, was about US$27.2 million or 85% of the amount estimated at appraisal. The
amount of underspending would have been much greater had the onginal project duration of five
years been adhered to.
Reslts
vii. To a large extent, the project achieved its institution building objectives. Fragmentation
of the research system has been reduced, with ten institutes now responsible only to four
ministries instead of seven as heretofore. BARC's role has been more clearly defined and
strengthened by an ordinance promulgated in 1988, although its links with the research institutes
and the authonty to coordinate and evaluate research stll remain less than effective. Two new
research institutes (BLR & FRI) bave been established and, together with BFRI which has been
substantially developed, have been brought within the agncultural research system and the ambit
of BARC's mandate. With help from the United States Agency for Interational Development
(USAID), improved research management procedures have been developed and put in place at
BARC and some of the institutes. Much of the physical infrastructure to be built by the project
has been completed. Funded by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), there has
been a large technical assistance input to the system, which has helped it in key areas. Many
scientists have been given post-graduat taining, and most have received in-country training in
research management.
viii.  There were problems, however, as the Contract Research has not ffiled expectations.
An agreement reached at araisal, and recoded in the GOB Project Profonna (PP), to enable
BLRI to take over the Savar Livestock Fann was abrogated by the Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock (MOFL) soon after the project becme effective. This delayed establishment of BLIM,
curtiled development of the institute's facilities and engendered cost overruns on the physical
worls component for this instiatte. As a consequence, effectively little livestock research was
done during the project period. Difficulties in site selection for the brackish water research
station of FRI led to delay in its establishment; delays in handing over the marine research
station at Cox's Bazar to FRI by Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL) not only delayed
its incorporation into the institute but also effectively prevented development of a bracldsh water
or manne fishery research component under the project.
frdect Sustainabifty
ix. The project's sustainability is questionable. Although BARC staff costs are in the process
of being transferred from the development budget to the revenue budget, many staff at a number
of institutes remain on the development budget; and, at the time of the PCR mission's visit,



v
theme were cases of staff being unpaid for some months. Operational funding, normally paid to
a large extent from the development budget, has been reduced, so little resech is being done
with GOB fmds at present. Since closure of the Credit in June 1992, the research system has
been strongly supported by USAID with PL 480 funds, without which there is little doubt that
the system would collapse unless GOB were to arrange for increased budgetary allocations.
slons IMU
x.    The main lessons leaened from the expezience of this project relate particularly to aspects
of management and are: (a) the importance of ensuring that institutional changes critical to the
project are covered by appropriate covenants; (b) the need to increase BARC's autonomy in
relation to the operational ministries and to improve its organizational and managerial capability
and performance; (c) the need to amend ordinances govening the autonomy of rsearch institutes
to ensure that they become accountable to BARC for the purposes of research coordiiataon and
monitoring & evaluation (M&E); (d) the misapprehension that a contract search scheme could
be based on disbursing large numbers of grants to research workers who, in theory, were already
fully empioyed and committed to core research programs (research grants or a contract research
scheme have clear advantages, however, in the mobiLiion of agricutural research capacity at
universities in support of priority research); (e) the need to undertake more carefdul assessment
of the suitability of construction sites for project atvities and the acquisition and estat
of clear title to sites before project implementadon; (f) in the context of Bangladesh, the planned
project  plementation period of five years was insufficient in view of some of the bureauraic
pitfalls and the implementing agencies' lack of prior experience in dealing with their relevant
ministries and IDA; (g) the need for more intensive supervision of projects, like the present
project, where implementation progress is much slower than anticipated; (h) the need for a mid-
term review geared to overcome problems which hinder the project's progress; and (i) the need
to ensue sustained funding of opetng costs after project completon.



BANGLASH
V.-CMN AGRMII,L1ffi$EMRH ELQJE:
(Creit 14S"B)
PART I: PRQ.IECT REVIEW FROM DA'S ES VE
PtoWect Identity
Prqect Name  :  Second Agncultural Research Project
Credit No.    :   1455-BD
RVP Unit      :  South Asia Region
country       :  Bangladesh
Sector           Agricultum
Sub-sectors    :  Agricultural Support Seces
Projed Backround
1.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, In 1983, the sector contributed
to 57% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 80% of the exports, and its predominance in
the country's economy has continued more or less at those levels. However, with a large and
growing popon and inte-e pres    on limited land resources, Bangladesh suffere from
chroic shortages of food de.' .-  an accelerted growth in foodgrain production during the late
1970s. The country's Second Five-Year Plan (PY81 to FY85) and the Medium-Term Food
Production Plan developed with IDA's assistance in early 1981 therefore gave top priority to
increasing agricultural production, particularly to achiving sef-sufficdi    in foodgrain
production.
2.       nTe Government's strategy for achieving high production depended agely upon
greatly increased input levels. It was recognized, however, that these alone would not bring
about the anticipated increases in agricultural production. Consistent agricultural improvement
would only stem from large-scale adoption of improved technology, spearheaded by resch
geared to produce items of new technology appropr   to the needs of the country. In fact, as
far back as 1972, the IDA-prepared Land and Water Resources Sector Study (IBRD Report -



r.
PS 13) had recommended strengthening agricultural research and establishing strong linkages
between te various research institutes.
3.        In 1973, GOB established the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC)
as the apex organization for planning and coordinating the activities of the already existent and
extensive agricultural research system. During the 1970s and early 1980s, BARC and the
reseac network were supported in three uccessive phases by the Unites States Agency for
Intemational Development (USAID) and IDA. The latter's support was through the first
Agricultural Research Project (ARP-I). However, it was recognized tha an efficient national
agricultural research system would not develop quickly and that a seies of projects, whether
supported by 1DA or other agencies, would be required to assist Bangladesh's research
development efforts.  The Second Agicultural Research Projet (ARP-11, Cr. 1455-BD)
constituted an integral part of that effort.
Project Objectis, Desecrintlon and Cost
4.        Project objectives. ARP-II was IDA's follow-on lending operation to ARP-I (Cr.
828-BD), which was closed in December 1984. The project's objectives were to: (a)
consolidate the gains under ARP-I and provide continued IDA support for the Government of
Bangladesh's (GOB) efforts to develop a strong research coordination, planning an.d monitoring
organization at BARC; (b) bring livestock, fisheries and forestry research more effectively into
the national agricultral research system; and (c) strengte the research station network. The
component intended for strengthening BARC included funds for the development of the BARC
library into a National Agricultural Library and Documentation Center.
5.        Project description. The principal components of the project were:
(a)  strengthening BARC tirough additional fcilies (buildings, documentation center)
and staff, and by improvming financial management and accounting procedures;
(b) continued fumding of priority research areas through a Contract Research;
(c)  provision of inftucture, equipment, machbiey and vehicles for Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Institute (BARI), Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
(BFRI), Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI) and the Fisheries Research
Institute (FRI);
(d)  provision of post-graduate training as well as in-service technical and resrch
management training; and
(e) technical assistamce (TA) for program development in livestock, fisheries, forestry,
taining, contract research evaluation, data retieval and audit.



3
6.        Total project costS, phased over 5^ yeam, were estimated at US$32.2 million and
an IDA credit of .SDR 23.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent) was to fund 76% of costs while
GOB and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) were to contribute respectively
17.5% and 6.5%.
7.        Agricultura research activities within Bangladesh have also been supported by other
agencies, notably USAID which, since 1978, has invested about US$60 million in the system
and continues to support it with PL 480 funds.
Prolec Desim and (}rgnizafio
8.        Project design. The project was prepared in July 1982 principally by BARC staff
with assistance from IDA. It was appraised by IMA in February 1983, negotiated wiffi GOB in
December 1983, and approved by IDA's Board in March 1984. The project was designed to
provide for: eahancement of BARC's ability to fulfill its overall funcdon of coordination and
M & E of all agricultumal research activities; establishment of research facilities of BLRI and
FRI; strengthening of research activities of BARI and BFPR; promoting continued funding of
priority research areas throu, . conta research and supporting staff trining. Provisions for
expert services were also incl aded.
9.        The project was implemented by BARC and four agricultural research institutes
(BARI, BLRI, FRI and BFRI) belonging to three ministnes (Ministries of Agnculue,
Environment & Forest; and Fisheries and Livestock) with the overall responsibility of project
coordination given to BARC and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
freLbiBkUZn
10.       Credit effectiveness and project start-up. The IDA Credit was approved in March
1984, became effective in April 1985 and was closed on June 30, 1992, after ftree extensions,
for a total of 2½h years after the original closing date. Delays in effectiveness were due to
GOB's delays in establishing BLRI and FRI as autonomous institutes. Final disbursement from
the Credit was on November 19, 1992.
11.       The project was over-ambitious in scope and scale. In particular, given the
circumstances in Bangladesh, it was unrealistic to expect (a) to establish two new research
instimtes within five years, namely BLIU and FR!, and to get them working effectively; (b) to
complete the establishment and construction of a new brackish wate research station to expand
FRI's research coverage; and (c) to develop and insttutonalize new research management
procedures to enable BARC to fufill its research coordinating and M & B roles. Because of the
need to maintain the impetus towards change strted by ARP-I, it was accepted that the livestock
and fishienes components would be prerd in oudine only at appraisal, with full preparation
to come during the early stages of the project. As conceived, the Contr   Reserch was
unliely to augment BARC's authority with institutes supported by the project, but it provided



4
an incentive to universities to carry out priority resach in support of the insdtutes' research
programs.
12.       OrgatIonal AspecXt and Role of BARC.  Although BARC has been
organizationaly strengthened, crtan problems became maifest dut ng implemlentation of some
of the project componen. Lin  between BARC and research institutes were less than
effective; for instance, in the opatdon of the Conta  Research where delays blamed on
BARC's administation led to fte funds being disbursed direct to the institutes. Similarly,
BARC seems unable to overcome problems arising from the reluctance of the ministries
concemed with the project to relinquish responsbiity for various aspec  of research planing
and the approval of fellowships for taining. It is uncertain if measures required for monitoring
and evaluating research have been adopted yet by the insttutes. Temporary or acting
appointments of the Executive Vice-Chairman and five of the nine Member-Directors of BARC,
and unc    es over the role of Member-Directors in BARC's organization, may have
cotributed unfavorably to the generally poor relationships between the mstitutes and the BARC
Secrariat.
13.       Contra  research. The prpect's Conta  Research component amounted to
US$9.42 million or 29.3% of the total proect cor. All aspects of the procedures for research
gant application, evaluation, arova, disbursement, retng and final assessment were
developed durng earlier projects and embodied in a compreheive Manual for Contract
Research, published in 1984, which is now under revision.
14.       The Contact Research has not fulfilled expectations. By 1987 the scheme was much
underspent, and following complaints that BARC procedures for appval were too slow, funds
were subsequently disbursed direct to the insttutes. An examination of research progams
poved and completed suggested that the orginal critera for contract reseach were not being
meL Titles for most of the porams mdicate that research apoed for contr  work formed
part of the core program of institutes and that contract research funds were being used as a top-
up for opational funds, a fault previously identified by the PCR on ARP-I: few projects were
inter-disciplinary or contributed to integrated stulies. Accoding to GOB's evaluation of the
Schme  ,shaq, 1991 - Evaluation Report of Secod Agricultura Research Project - ARP-I1,
Cr. 1455-BD), much of the work done was a repetion of earlier research, which suggests
weakmess in BARC and the relevant institutes in assessing the importance and merit of reseach
proposals.
15.       Physcl works. Most of the physical works planned for BARC and the other
institutes have been completed (see Prt  4A). However, the original Government-owned land
in Rhulna select  at appaisal for the bracklsh water station of FRI proved unsuitable because
the water on site was not sufficiently saline. Difficulties arose in the purchase of a more suitable
site neatby, so that consuction of the station at Paikgacha was neither started until 1989, nor
completed before June 30, 1992, the project's closing date. Building work still to be completed
includes insStaion of a deep tubewell, a water control structure, one staff residential building,
a sevie builng and a fltation unit. Investigations during the preparation of the proposed



folRow-on Third Agricultural Research Project have also led to serious doubts about the
suitability for bracldsh water fish and shrimp research of the present site because the water at
the site is insufficiendy saline and contains too high a load of suspended solids. The fish and
shrimp tanks already built are reported to be more suitable in design and construction for
production ta for rach purposes. In addition, procrastination by MOFL led to delay in
the handing over of the maine fisheries research station at Cox's Bazar to FRI. Consequently,
no research in either the brackish water or marine fishery sectors has been done under the
project
16.      In general, progress of civil works planned for BARC and BARI was satisfactory,
reflecting their previous experience through ARP-I, whereas progress by the two new institutes
(BLRI and FRI) and by BFRI (which had no previous experience with an IDA project) was
slower than anticipated at appraisal, with some civil works remaining incomplete at BFRI. The
agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests at appraisal that BLRI would take over
the facilities of the Savar Livestock Farm was abrogated by the new Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock after the project began. BLRI's establishment was therefore delayed; and because
BLRI had to be built on a new site without roads, water, drainage or electricity services, the cost
of civil works was in fact greater th  provided for in the Staff Appraisal R eort (SAR). A
seious omission from the constuction work at BRIM was the complete lack of animal housing,
so that it has not been possible to initiate a livestock research program to accord with the
priorities of the Department of Livestock Services and BARC. The only research done to date
is some ad hoc off-station work carried out on the personal initiatve of a few officers.
17.       Training. Implementation of this component was hampered by the unforeseen
slowness of the bureaucratic process for the approval of selected candidates for local and
overseas training. The weakness of BARC's Training Cell had already been identified as a
fctor in the under-performance of this component under ARP-L During supervision of the
present project, IDA review missions repeatedly reported that selection and approval of
candidates for training was unsatfactory because of the poor working relationship between
BARC's Training Cell and the irastitutes involved: pocrastination by the ministries concerned
seems equally to blame. In view of these delays, this component was substantiy scaled down
at the time of the first Credit extension in 1990 but later increased prior to the last extension.
The revised program was subsequently completed.
18.       Disbursement and costs. Disbursement of the Credit lagged well behind the SAR
estimate throughout the project implementaton period, although the pace of disbursement
improved after the first extension of the closing date in 1990. Of the total Credit amount of
SDR 23.4 million, the actual disbursement was SDR 14.6 million (62%). The final undisbursed
balance of SDR 1.8 million was canceled.
19.       Actual project expenditure in US$ tems is esmated at about US$27.2 million or
15% lower than the SAR estimate. The decrease in total project cost was mainly due to: (a)
reduced implementation of the original plans, particularly under the training and contract
research scheme components; and (b) savings in ependiture because of substantial devaluation



6
of the Taka and the US dollar in relation to SDR values during the project implementation period
(US$1 = Tk 25 in 1984 and Tic 39 in 1992; SDR 1 = US$1.02 in 1984 and 1.40 in 1992).
PJ~Mect RMlts
20.       The objectives for the project, as outlined in the SAR, focused mainly on institution
building. In this limited context, the project's achievements, albeit over the extended period,
are considerable. Fragmentation of the research system has been reduced; the seven ministres
responsible for the ten agricultural research institutes have been reduced to four. BARC's role
has been strengthened by an ordinance promulgated in 1988, although the links between BARC
and the research institutes, and the former's authority to coordinate and evaluate the research
programs of the institutes, sdll remain less than effective (para 12). Two new research institutes
(BLRI and FRI) have been established and a third (BFRI) substantially developed, and all three
have been brought within the agncultua research system and the ambit of BARC's mandate.
With help from USAID, improved resarch management procdures have been introduced and
insttutionalized at BARC and some of the institutes. Much of the physical infrastructure
development required by the project has been completed. There bas been a large international
and national consultant input which has benefited the system. Although fewer than provided for
in the SAR, many scientists have been given post-graduate trainng and most scientists within
the system have been trained in research management with project funds.
21.       On the negative side, Contract Research failed to realize its objective of promoting
applied research of an interinstitutional and interdisciplinary nature, directed towards solving
problems of national priority. Also, achievements in the livestock and fisheries sectors have
been disappointing due to: (a) the decision to postpone full preparation of these components
until after project commencement (par 11); (b) problems of site selection for the bracldsh
water station of FRI and the delay in handing over the marine fisheries research station at Cox's
Bazar to FRI (para 15); and (c) the action, with respect to BLRI, of the newly-formed MOFL
to abrogate the agreement recorded in the SAR and the GOB project proforma (PP) for BLRI
to take over the Savar Uvestock Farm (para 16).
Prect ft9inambft
22.       Project sustainability is in doubt. Although BARC staff are in the course of being
transferred from the development budget to the revenue budget, staff at a number of institutes
remain on the development budget and in some cases have not been paid for some months.
Opeational funding, normally paid to a large degree from the development budget, has been
reduced so lttle research is being dt ae witih GOB funds at present. Since closure of the Credit
in June 1992, the research system has been strongly suported by USAID with PL 480 funds.
However, USAID have indicated that as a result of policy changes, they will be limiting support
for the agncultural research sector in future. Without this support there is little doubt that the
system would collapse unless GOB were to arrange for increased budgetary allocation from its
own funds, perhaps supplemented by funding from extral sources.



7
23.       Through the project, IDA has contributed significantly to strengthening and
diversifying the agricultu  research capabiity in Banglades. Its perfornmom, from guiding
the peparation of the proect by BARC dhou  to supervision, was generahy good. During this
process, Bank staff made a number of constuctive suggesins to improve BARC's
organzaional sttre and to stengte its position so tat it could coordinate and evaluate
research more etively. Ihe 15 supervision missions mounted by IDA at an average
frequency of si months over tie project's implentation period were considered very useful,
both by GOB and the project's implementing agencies  They wer able to resolve issues
onmning procrement of equipment and realocaft of proect funds, and also to succely
recommend throe extens of the proec period. Bank staff were also istrumental in
prmotng a high level worshop in January 1992 by MOA, at which the maagement of the
whole agricuiral research system was mriewed. An important outcome of this workshop is
the preparation of a new drft ordinance to consolidate BARC's position as the apex organization
for plnning, c    g  and evaluating agricultural reach.
24.      In re,tospect, however, it would seem that certain acons on the part of IDA could
have impwved the proect's overall performance. For instance, the deailed pation of the
livetok and fisheries compoets might not have been poponed to the early stages of project
implementation. Also, institutiona changes critical to the project - such as the takeover of the
m Livestock Farm by BLRI and te timely tnsfer of the marine fisheies station at Cox's
Bazr to FRI - should have been cowvered by including propriate covenants in the Credit
Agrmet. Furtier, in view of th contently low performance raig of the project, first
during the p'jiod September 1985 to March 1987 and again during the period December 1989
to January 1991, IDA shoud have aranged for closer  vision of the project during those
perods and to include in such s  vi      ealists in livestock and fisheies research
discipnes. FaUlly, in view of the much sower than anticipated progress, a full-scale mid-term
eview of the project, as prposed in the SAR, would have helped overcome problems hindering
the smooth impemeton of the project including, in particular, the Contract Research
componet



dommoo  whids 003.               of hind oM    Cnm  lemare  ws an dsv do
ranow  hub w    disbrsd direct to imitates, bylpasiu SAW. Audit and aIr v-es
wo ofts -.ao  foir tdo moc pu beamm of pocaumlsby miuldsu  ormuuI
a b P  SIwIs slow, so ta                                     meesaw.
-    -    dtla It   utlo of t  su ad lbS*N*ua                 st un f   
wan delay in uhecdq a suibt  alest for fthI b-api   owate .miish sA   o fn dR. md Is
kg       Am   rps. ron   tW wgnly p_ad wnd dW li cosfo,m aao w
usijns Audit repots althoug in wmH as mmnvaul*  ddlayed
2?.      lbs Oda  mncu lAed from fte exaleec  ofth projec am
7%li  =se to cum tht  udw  dhuguwhlba t    lo rim a anem.cu.rby
(b)  Ifg ame d Ito lucmaw BAIC's autoimy in idiom to ft e .peraaa.a mllals and
()th ineed it o amn orimaessa  mp   " nIng t   sam my ft uinr  km""
_~~a  at au      lbosX      b   ltl                       
_          Ibs         of usig a COr  dm6e  to aye to ad , _Ai
svgpoutd by fte proje wmoo in fthuy at be3atA oly nsmImhi to wm8   uIid
progms and theefor shoul  ave bee. abl to make ve of maw prng am
awuet.ser   grns or a C_sac DemUy           di hvuroo hae b nIr
o*mftnta  in mobilizi fth agklcu*ma  dimuc aeq   aty  ulvelde ins panu
ofeIat_M  Ipkft  _ wfc
The ls mtablty of coweaututoa site for project uvnatve and dhe acquIos and
whdmao  lrttet  i.ue t  es nhymndbfr rjc
)    n " a u              $      _l@.



9
0)   d Ia tcntex of Bangadsh the planne project imleeto period of five
ysu wasnsgicient In view of the diffclty of pqu y with some of
dtmexevey buimucrmti procedues a,ounteed, and in view of sm   of te
Implemening anie  lack of pdar  xpeu           in dea     with thei relevant
instles nd MDA. In particular, the Iplementtio require t to establis two
new rscb  indtute (BLI and    ) and to filly deveop NWRI during the
plane proct perod was too ambitious.
(g)  Tet need fbr IDA to cary out more Intnive suevision during the peiods (pan
24) when      e    n press was slower tn antisped, ad abo the need
for a mid-trm review geared to overcome problems which hinder the projets
(h)  The need to emnsr sustaned funding of operating costs of BARC and the resarch
insdtutes after projet compeion.
28.       VNDP-funded ecbhnical assista CeA) for the devt of ELI and MRe, and
for        In   PI!, was exoed by FAO for five yeas during 1985 to 1989. TA for the
project  the        of esec  valuaion, data colecom and auit was executed by 1DA wit
UNDP finacial inpu during 1985 to 1992. TMe blendig of local and intentonas expet
under the TA p _pm wa appreciatd by all intute roceiving   s aid, and it proved to be
gif    . NHoweve, the actual use of loca epert  was less than the SAR esimate, miny
becs of dhe diffilt of recrting exprs frm witi GOW's savice. Despite this, the TA
omponnt didbre US$2.98 million agdast the SAR estimate of USS2.58 million.
29.       At t   ie dof pret  dosure,  at          were good bWe   IDA and the
Bower, rprentd by h vwaou ms     invo d, mainly becausw of frequent conta
and di consucv atiude of IDA's  sient staff to problems as y avros. Similarly, IDA
smf wr pacte In supvising te prjet, as evidecd by              r sdposorsi of the
wo*ho to rview dt  sau of BARC (pan 23), ad this led lo good rns beteen IDA
and t*h           agencies. Ho      ratins wer varabl betwemen th  MIm eming
-d s and gm ministe prentig th Borroe, ad betwe  th                    ageces
tmseves  MACs ationshp with MOA seemed                  , but its co      wit MOFL
was a  as  tshtory beas ths minstry was less wiling to cocee to BARC any auhiy
a    UL 'S prgam  Reatons betwen DARC ad th the research instutes -  IR!X,  Fi
and NM  - wee reanay   sy,but wbA           ld benefit from more ft et contat and
mornlear de       of soch redaionsip by BARC and terva  minsati   Mm poe's
djei  to empow  DARC to coordnate and eauat rearch prgrms was not achieve
largey beaus t  insti' ordiac  did not requir tm  to seek  ARC's approa for



10
rsearch prjects or pr ms Fut       r  he li e' govrng Coni, chaid by dhei
rective minises wefe viwed as g .1 (quIvalnt dau to BARC, ngadin anY attem
to enhaceBRCs authorit i prom approvad                 thi did not make for good
relatDonse.tnan   a
30.       Ibe Preparation Report prpad by BARC staff, with hep frm IDA, was not
avaiable fof sudy, but the SAR geneally provided a uso   frmework for IDA and de
Borower during prect         aii              ports a  povded vuable _Ifm
an prject performance during it          A mid-trm review, schduled for 1987 in te
SAR, was not caried out BAARC, on bdelf of (301, enoae a team of consulta to vu
prject perfomane in July 1991; their repon, issued in Novee 1991, provided valuable
informaion.  I addiion, over 50 documents, Incuding tehnialpors and wordig paprs
were produced an different aspect of ft resarch poject by consultants engagod  der te TA
componng was  adeqat on de pa oft Om



11
BANGLADES}
SECOND  AG-RICULTURAL  EEARCHI PROJECT
(Credit 14SS-BD)
BARC COMPONENT:
CONTRIBUTION OF PROJECT- TO THE N T ON
PART  II:          RENM RE   THE PROM a PES
The project contributed to the National Agicultural Research System partly through
central coordination by BARC as well as by the component institutes, viz: BARI, BFRI, FRI
and BLRI.
Development of infrastrutue, experimental form development, purchase of equipment
were the responsibilities of the concemed instituions and these are not reported here. Rather,
the contributions of the project to BARC are described here.
The project contributed to Bangladesh Agricultual Research Council through achieving
the objectives set in the PP. These are discussed below:
(a) Livestock, fishery and forestry sectors for research were neglected in the past. The
important prorty areas of research were identified for implementation through
contract research system. A manual of contract research was also prepared which
was used as a guideline for opeting contrA research. These contact rearch
activities were not limited to the four institutes, rather they were distributed to other
relevant professional organimzons like universities.
While these contract researchers were approved, many relevant equipment and cost for
researh operation were provided to project investigators through BARC. In most of the cases,
a few skeleton staffs in the level of SSO and below were also recruited for the project period.
These skldled personnel were subsequently absorbed in the concerned institutes wherever there
were opportunities.
In this way, research capability in livestock, fisheries and forestry were strengftened and
upgraded.
2 Provided by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) on
the project's BARC Component.



12
(b) interinstitutional and interdisciplinary coordination were also strengthened. For
interinstitutional coordination, the listed institution (BARC, BARI, BPRI, PRI &
BLRI) used to sit down regularly to discuss progress of the project and future line
of action. This coordination meeting has strengthened understanding among those
five institutions. Moreover, the budget for the contract research was coordinated
at BARC level. Fund used to flow through BARC. In that case coordination was
functioning better than style of direct fund disbursement to institutes.
(c)  There was improvement in quality of research through development of skill and
competence. There are about 1,550 scientists in the NARS. Training was
conducted on several occasions by the institutions on various topics like statistics
and biometry, management, foundation training for newly recruited scientists and
long term training of agncultual diploma holders. Fourteen scientists were sent
abroad for Ph.D. 33 local PH.D scholarships were planned, but only 22 candidates
were offered. There were 43 scientists trained for short term, 29 participated in
seminar/workshop and 11 technicians were trained.
In addition, there was the training course for two months on nuclear research. Over a
period of September 1987 to June 1991, about 1,200 scientists were trained on research planning
and evaluation where scientists from NARS institutes and universities participated. The level
of participants raged from Scientific Officer to Chief Scientific Officers. The skills developed
through such research planning and evaluation training course has been utilized in drafing five
year masteplans of the institutes and exercise on strategic planning to the year 2010 which is
under preparation. Moreover, that knowledge has also been utilized in drafting the annual
research program of the mstitutes including special studies projects for PL-480 funding. Quality
of writing scientific reports has also improved. This is reflected in the cont resch reports
and other scientific reporting.
There was only one expatriate contract research evaluation specialist who was engaged for
six weeks as a fragmentary task. Since his output was not found to be worthwhile, he was not
engaged again. The consultant(s) on research planning and evaluation training persistently
worked to kep the training program moving smoothly resuldting in the training of 1,200
scientists of NARS.
Local experts used to be hired for evaluating contract research projects once a year for a
day or two. Depending on the number of projects and diversified expertise areas, different
number of evaluators was engaged for contract research of different areas. This used to be done
when the contract research projects were reviewed at BARC annually. These evaluators were
remunerated on work bases instead of man-month basis. Since FSR was a big component of
contract research, four local evaluators were engaged each for one month to evaluate PSR
projects at sites. In addition, the entire research component was evaluated by a team of local
experts on different expertise areas, each for a short period and the total duration was 11 man
monhs. The consolidation of information on all components was done by a team leader.



13
(d)  Improved efficiency of research  and  fast dissemination  of information
(documentation, data processing mobility).
For the purpose of documentation dissemination of information, data processing equipment
like computer, audiovisual equipment, videocassette recorder and display item, reporgraphic
equipment are very vital. These have been properly procured.
After procurement of these equipment, it has been possible to provide computer training
and facilities to NARS scientists and institutions. Collection, storage and retrieval of data and
literature have been possible as service to NARS. Scientists are approaching and getting
scientific references through BARC from across the world.
The activity of documentation has been strengthened. Most of the information available
through conference seminars, workshops and discussion meetings are collected by Agncultural
Information Center (AIC) and documented as microfiche or in computer diskette as well as bard
copies. These are retrieved as and when needed.
In connection with data processing, computers have been purchased and these are being
used in data processing (e.g. climatological data base for agro-econonogical zoning and
production planning), information collection/editing and retrieval, training and data analysis for
NARS scientists and technicians. Five computer operators were trained abroad on advanced
software programming. They are providing important sewrices to BARC and NARS.
Regarding mobility, Farming Systems Research Projects received 4 jeeps (given to FRI,
BPRD, BARI, SRTI) for the FSR scientists for their field visit. There was provision for 6 jeeps
in BARC component. But GOB clearance was not obtained and those could not be purchased.
Therefore, the project could not improve mobility, rather the scientists and officers had to move
rough public transports, where field level visit as desired could not be really performed. For
local visits within the different districts, BARC offcials had to be dependent on institutes
vehicles, which were also very limited in quantity and operational flexibility.
(e)  Develop conductive research infrastructre and regional research capability (station
development, research equipment and other physical facilities).
BARC constructed 5,600 sq. NALDOC (National Agricultal Library & Documentation
Center, now Agricultural Information Center) and a guest house (2,900 sq. ft.).
At BARC several office equipment were purchased. However, the institutes purchased
many research equipment through the contract research projects.
Through providing so many equipment, the research activifies and their analyfical
capabilities have improved, because those are being used for core research of the respecdve
institutes. In addition, many scientists and technicians were also recruited under each contract



14
research project. Many of the people have been absorbed in the respective institutes. Thus, the
institute have got readily available experienced scientists and technicians.
Lanws L&a
Lessons leat from ARP II (Cr. 1455-BD) are listed below:
(a)  Research grants or a Contract Research Scheme however, have clear advantages in
mobilzing the agricultural research capacity at universities in support of priority
research. This has helped and strengthened monitoring and coordination activities
with different institutions. Information feedback has also been facilitated. When
contract research fund was channeled direct to the institutes through their respective
PP, BARC had no opportunity to look into the research projects funded from Cr.
1455-BD. This has resulted into duplication and low priority research. There was
weak scope of monitoring those projects. Thus the coordination role of BARC for
research was weakened.
(b)  In the context of Bangladesh, the planned project implementation period of 5.5 years
was insufficient in view of the difficult of proceeding quickly with some of the
excessively lengthy procedures.
(c)  There is need for more intensive supervision of projects where implementation
progress is much slower than anticipated, and there is the need for a mid-term
review geared to overcome problems which hinder the project's progress.
(d)  Small amount of inital deposit in SAFE account compared to annual budget affected
the prors seriously. For adjustment and reimbursement, the procedural delay is
the same for any amount of money. Therefore, the amount for evolving from the
SAFE account should be more and should not be less than 40% of annual budget.
(e) The restrictions on interdistrict movement with vehicles created problems in visiting
different sites. There should be special relaxation on this restriction for agricultural
research activities and field monitoring of research projects.
(1)  There is need to increase BARC's autonomy in relation to the operational Ministries
and to improve its organizational and mangerial capabiity including the
introduction of more strmlined procedures.
(g) There is need to amend ordinances governing the autonomy of research institutes
to ensure that they are accountable to BARC for the purposes of research
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.



15
PRQHT CiOPUON 
SECOND AGXLU311L REV4AR
(Credit 1455-BD)
PART mif: STATI1lICALJQ
1. Relted IDA Credits
Credit ro                              punpess                  Date of    S9ae          Coumft
Aprd
Agul  Extnio           To impsow    easn and applied _rh in the   97       Cosed   PCR isued July 1982.
and Reswa I            NW Rion.                                             1982   PPAR Isud May 1984.
(Cr.729-D)
Ardouhwa Reseach I     SUthenb    aulua rseach, epecIly          1978      Closed   PCR isued Dec. 1986.
(Cr.8BD)               faclite, manaem  ad manpaoer of BAIl,                1984
ad planng, cooridaon and moniming of
B=AC.
Agrcurl Exteno         To expandT & V exenion syste iWduced      1982      Clsed   PCR issued Dec. 1992
aNd Reseacb            under Cr.729-2D to 15 coA of 21 gIulal               1991
(Cr.1215-D)            disc, ad iwpove adatve garo.
2. Poect   etabl
ken                    Date  lamnned            Date Actu
Idenification             -                     May 12, 1980 V
Preparaton             may 1981                 July 1982
Apprais                Jan. 1983                Feb. 1983
Negotiations           April 1983               Dec. 20,1983
Roard Approval         Nov. 1983                March 29,1984
Credit Sigaure            -                     May 18, 1984
Credit Effeciveness    Aug. 16 1984             Appdl 23, 1985
Credit Closing         Dec. 31, 1989            June 30, 1992
Credit Compleion       Jun. 30, 1989            Nov. 19, 1992
tl Date of fist pujee bdif Issed.



16
Coments
Major issues raised at each stage of the project cycle as recorded in the Project Brief, Issues
Paper, the Decision Memorandum, and the Minutes of Negotiations were as follows.
Identitlcaffon/lDPrertion: (1) Higher prOject costs ta those estimated in the first project
brief (May 1980); (u) Radonale for the construcdon of new research stations;
(dii) Ltion of proposed research support failities; (iv) The degree of cooperation that can
be  pected between BARC and the relevant resrch institutes.
Appraisal: (i) IDA finang percentage should be increased from the planned 75% to 90%
to conform with Cr. 828-BD (Agricultural Research D) and to giVe fUl support to research in
Bangladesh; (ii) Production of a final National Agricultural Research Plan by GOB, and
deignaton of the project in the GOB Core Program, would be conditions of effectiveness.
Negotiations: The conditions of Board Presentation agreed to during Negotiations were:
i) establishment of MBMR  and PRI and (i) publication of the Manual of Procedures for the
contract research program. Apparently, the first condiion was not met prior to Board
Presetation and it became one of the special conditions of effectiveness.
3. C
Cuuuklv Euli4 and Act  Ma
(USS =HBo)
FM    m    N86 FM    7   FY8   FY    FY0  F9   FM2   FYM3
A#ulua Egndu        0.49  2.94  9.06  16.90  22.05  24.50  24.50  24.50  24.S0  24.50
Actl                 -     -    1.06  2.39   4.76   7.74  11.05  1437  17.80  19.23
AAuas % ofNEstt'     -     -    12   14    22    32    45    59    73    78
Date of F.nal Diftburnt:  Nvember 19, 1992
U n SDRs, acul dbuburm  was 62% (DR 14.6 ;milo agais SDR 23.4 milo.



17
4. Pro3ect hnpgementation
A. Key Indicators - Physical Progms 11
Itam                                      un             SAR TV               Actl    Ac as % of UAR
Tar"t
1. Ctii Woab
BARC:
* Doownw utakonir                          U                  465               520                112
Guea ho                                                     240               269                 112
- Buldiap atAkbwpurati                      P               1,SO0              1,595               106
- Uulldlngsat Patal;satio                 fA2                 1S5               285                IS4
- Roidpgat Pabza                           n2                 380               232                 61
-BundiutpatShyanpur                        m2                 130               116                 89
- Feig (boundy wall)                       m                4,880             6,005                123
- water mApplyEootlcaI wo              Tk minlon             1.80               4.S                250
nu:
-Laboffic                                  .2               3,1S0              1,935                61
-RWe          buidings                      2               1,845              1,687                91
UFML
- LabOIndOUy buUdIdingS                    22                 400               400                iQ0
- Statut                                   m2                 810               720                 89
- W o      *'e' quart..*                                      770               720                 93
LK!:
* Amnl. bu                                 2                  604              1,200               199
.eRnidat  buUidI                    m2                     2,644             6,675                252
- mute!_ hd                                                   -                 350
-Roads                                     m                  -               6,000
,Wa  mppyIl                             Tk mimlin             -                 8.1
3. V des
-car                                      No.                 9
-Mcrb=s                                   No.                 S
- 4wd Vehicles                            No.                 -                  14                 -
-Pick-wp                                  No.                 19                 9                  47
No.                37                 35                 94
- Moticyclas                             No.                 1                  1                 100
Basd on data provided by eahiUiplA0MWtqP aenY.



18
B. Contract Research
Itm                                 unit              SAR Target              Actu at              Acta as % of SAR
Tar
UlWo k                           US$ milon                1.71                  1.09                       63
Fmhoslw                           USSm Uon               .iS                   OMl                        46
FPorY                            USS millo                0.88                  0.39                       44
Othara                           USS min                  4.85                  3.60                       72
1B Baed oa dMWeeman dat.
C. Staff Developme-t and Traing
im                                          Usit         SAR Tort             Actua             Actua as*of SAR
Targe
-PhD  (hal                                man-year           its                802                    69
-Maeg. (local)                            man-year           120                48 V                    40
- PhD  (albod)                            Mn-yea              48                562/                   116
- M So. (abroad)                          manyear             60                20 2                    33
- Rosou  PlanAMaution                    van-month           600                (38) 3 
* Shoatem trani                          man-mona _          144                  4)'
coe Der_
- abba"   do"                             man-year           180
- Loa woekbhpfoch. taing                    No.             N.A.                13 5
- Oveag rain                           No. ofpotions        N.A.                83
V     d on daa povidd by BARC.
2'  dmoted based on 4 yeai for PhD and 2 yem fA MSc.
31 No. of traing catn; 1,112 pos w    trined in tloal
4/ go. of riing courge; 2.025 po     e  trained in togal
510 pS     o padcin                       and 90 fed assiatante trained in diploma tra g prgrm.



19
D. Techical Assistace
Itan                                Uni           SAR Targct             Acal              Acual S  of SA
Tare"
- LAl consul.                    nun-month           184.0                6.0                      3
- Eatiate consulats               man-mont            29.5                36.S                    124
- Local consutnts                 u.nm anth           28.0                18.5                     66
- Epatriate consulta              man-month           85.0                78.5                     92
Foares   11
- Expatriate contiat              u.n-month           48.0                48.0                    100
BARC a
- Loa costant                    vu.n-month           99.0               N.A.3/
- patriat consltarts              u.n-mouth           31.0                373                     120
U UNDPjPAO astnce to the Second Agdcutura Reseach Prect (DO83I010.
2  UNDP/IDA assianc to the Second Agrdcul    Research Projec (OD/4013) in the mam of Thrtg, Rchb Evaluatln, Dat
CaUs:ton and AudL
31 Sub-contractd to local fitms ao indivdal constants on a hunip-m basis.



20
S. PftWe Cost and nnd
A. Project Cost
Itan                             Apprais Estinate 11                Acual2/
(et  minion)C  (USS mlUUin    (Tk nmlUon)  (US$ millon) 31
Sftn=Whbecn*BAiRC                35.06          1.40           19.48         0.59
Conract Rssearch               235.45           9.42          195.82         5.95
Strengthening BARI              47.73           1.91           48.04          1.46
livestock                        86.03          3.44          147.66          4.49
Fisheies                        100.65          4.03          160.99          4.89
Fotestry                         99.58          3.98          104.08          3.16
Staff Developmae  & Training    135.59          5.42          122.36          3.72
Techical Assistance              64.45          2.58           98.04          2.98
Total                         80kS4          32.18          896.47         27.24
V As per SAl. nhcuding bolb phyial ad price conneciea.
V Bued on dat pvided by ech ihupenVie g agency. UNDP TA Ternal Repos and di_burun da.
-t Acu awa8t in USS obtaind by using anal rate of echae am publie y nrmlional Moety Faund (IM.
Comments
The actual cost of the project over an eight-year period was Tk 896 million or about 11%
higher tban the project cost esfimated at appraisal. This cost overrun was mainly due to the
iceased cost of civil works for the livestock and fisheries components, including the cost of
land acquistion for the Khulna brackish water station. In US dollar terms, however, the actual
project cost was about 85% of the cost estimated at appraisal. The main reasons for this are:
(1) the devaluation of the Talm aginst the US dollar and the US dollar against the SDR; and
(ri) reduced implementation of the contract research and tng components. Subsequently, the
unspent balance of SDR 1.8 million was canceled.
B. Project Tuanci4ng
Source                       Appraisl Etitmate                     Actul
(USS millon)        (%)         (US$ millon)         (%)
DDA                        24.5             76.0           19.23            70.6
UNDP                        2.1             6.5             2.98            10.9
GOB                         5.6             17.S            5.08            18.5
Total                    32.2           ;100.0           27.24            100.0



it.  X  }      a    1xl!   11~~~~i
.s~ : iX                         al        iil



22
7. &Ws ofQ2n
DCA Set"                   CmGeAu                    Deadi  he Complane                    Stow
3.01        Psovd BMWs, aauseee,  dilids a     ed.         Uncfled            h compHlia; atWoug deay in
adequate sff provo observed.
3.0         Imploy aadanoey onaabanmto as"is               IUnspCte           to complianc.
NosWe in cauyq  out pV|tq
303         E btld MM ad pmide dequate sa                  Uo"lfild           In comlian, aQumo dwas of
Sad and Aclie.                                                   Sr Fam badover delayed
pro ges of KmU coqpoet.
3.04()      afta"h Flu    d prde dea s,                    Un     td          in coampiace.
SAWds and 6ac111tes.
3.04(0)     FuA       develpame plan wr 0ulm               un 30, 1985         o compiance, aahough dulays in
Due"  Wdar bsearb Sto                                             sbmsio ofplan.
3.0U        Adi a  conuact rsearc prom In                  Unliecfied         PWaal coiance.
accodancWI* manu.
3.06(s)       ua plan ofaidy tuas and lbcal            Ja 30 of ch yewr    in compliange.
gRW.
S.AS&)        1ainuin adequa zooa al proedumeto            Unpcied            Subsantialy pooied,v with
Iod and mSW nt prqJet proSar; enable                               adiquat apog abovd.
via- of s ad famiuh au ; Qrmatho on
-wo coo. bneaelts, sipedinam amd
4.01(a)     Minimuasae rcord and            .              Umpecifld          in copance.
4.01(c) B   Submit awdit depot.                        W   9 mont (6-moth  to compfiane, alhoug de In
ARC) of ed of  hFY   sumission always obaed.
8. Use of HIA Re
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
SGuth Anta Region
SAST039-TO1AL TINE CSTAPI"EMUS) RECSU  BY FISCAL YEAR/ACTIVITY
FOR PROJECTs 88APAIOS XAMEs AG R£S II
otDscounted Locat HIL and C~tsutants Ct 4s1 ratio)
COnty Reoutar Uudget)
(Net of Overtim, excluding Tnet fI Cotn utants)
TASK    FY81    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93  TOTAL
....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ----     ----. ....     ..... ....   ...... ........ ..... ... ..... ..... ..
LEN                               3.5      7.9                                                                                  11.4
LEM                              47.8      7.2                                                                                 55.0
LEW                                        8.8                                                                                 8a.
LEP                      1.6     7.7                                                                                           9.2
ART                                                          .2       .4                                                         .6
PCR                                                                                            .6                      14.1    14.7
WPM                                        1.2    12.5    16.3    28.5    14.9    22.7        6.2    10.0      8.6       .5   121.3
TAS                                                                   33
TOTAL
1.6    58.9    25.0    12.5    16.5    29.2    14.9    22.7         6.8    10.0      8.6    14.6   221.2
RMM DATE: 05/14/93



23
Slagt of Pject  MOnuhYe        No. of    Days In    _seifiaow Rqte peI           Pu*onane           Te of
Cydle                         P1siona     Padd                                  Ratin Stna 21    PiDoM  3'
identiflcato      may80 nsa.               u.s.                A..                    -                -
Pepato            81 and82      n.a.       n.S.               na.
Appraids           Meb. 83       5         28           AGM, FR,S, PA
Supevoi           July 84        1          7                  AG                     2              M, P
Supervlsa2        Feb. 8S        2          41               AG, RS                   2              M, P
SupeVso3          Sept.85        2          54/              AGZ                      3                -
Supenvidi 4        Feb. 86       3          S 41             AGC)                     4                -
Su&VSISl           May86         2          74               AGM2)                    4                -
SupeVlS1o6        Mabc 87        3          8 41             AGO)                     3                -
Supevilson7       Sept.87        1         21                  AG                     2                -
Supevisi8          July88        2         49                AG.RS                    3                -
Supervisoo9       Deo. 88        2         29                AG, BC                   2
SupevisioalO      June89         1         19                  AG                     2                -
Supevisoll       Dec.89         1         12                  AG                     3                -
Superv       12   Aug. 90        1          7                  AG                     3                -
Supeisuvi13        Jan.91        1          9                 AG                      3                -
Supervso 14        Jul 91        3          8 4           AG, EN, PO                  2                -
-Super nIS        Mabch92        2          8               AG,DO                     2                -
Compltioun        Jan. 93        2         18                AG, RS                   2                -
1 Speizeti    AG - Agruluis; DO - D isme Officer; IC = Economit; EN   Eginh, FR PR                 oy Specslist;   PA
- Pect Anadyst; PO = Prnm Officer S R     Resarch Managemen SpecHsl
2J pedornaae Ratin Stat: I - No sgnifiat problem; 2 - Modate pvablems, sfcn but ot cric  deviationsm Frm        rec
go,as; 3 - Major problem, seo   nough to eque Vscial anton n usally iutive svision  4 -As in 3.,  but the
problem ase not beig addressed adequately.
T Type of Prbl:em:    - Financial; M - Manment; P - POli; T - TechnicaL
Aflhr the Feb. 85  wperiion, types of  prblmsaoingU to the abelssfications wee not roded in supervision r
becaue of a chae in reportn fmt.   However, ngedal problem w           erea   always teportd durthe last suoeris
isons.
4 Estimated becau  the mision worbd on sver asntm   but did not specl4 the time spent on each.
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each stage of the project cycle.



r7m.v%pw  -- -C                                                                                                , ~~~~' ~~ 7 TFIM , I I.,tr::   '                                 g-  I
C)
m
0
z



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
r  BARI(Sangladesh Agricultural Research Institute)
A  BRRI(Bangladesh Rice Research Institute)
TO B( i 1 \   V   {~5 IB Goshosi   ES8JRI(Bangladesh Jute Research Institute)
a  INA(Institute for Nuclear Agriculturel
-26                                                                                           0  SRI(Sugar Research Institute)
*  TRIlTea Research Institute)
D                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK STATIONS
FISHERIES STATIONS
O  SOIL TESTING STATIONS
FACILITIES BEING DEVELOPED UNDER THE PROJECT:
t   < t iX  2! <  NR W F 8 use \ W S                               @ ~~~~BARI
\ LIVESTOCK STATIONS
9   FISHERIES STATIONS
11l,   FORESTRY STATIONS
I: FORESTRY SEED ORCHARDS
-25- R                                                                                                                                                             251~
2S  ~       AS
-24'                                        ABNArd Joydeb                                                                     I                                   24
Nf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TtO map ha been Prepared DI,                                                                                      \ bP        rtiiaii
rhe llso  Br*s ve,ercstaffBa of1excAisivelyA J~K< <                      (AUAAI'
readers and is exckisilIe forh                                                                                       CITAO
mnlemaa use of The World Bank    rATUi Li
and fme t rlaftorw Fea                             z 
Co,poalia  The daaronLiona               f
used and Bi bowdarifts hown)                                            _
pan Of TheWodd Ban* awd me
i    00|,X na- Ffow  Coption                                                                                           C H I TT 4>    k. {  (    \     
eny AmeViwt onmW eigalsarsa
Oafl aerw twory or any~J
erdorsemet or acf   ccepfancaof                                I     -      - '       I \'
s.uch budresi\y\\Dof   ox, ,. rz                                                                                                                       '
ROADS
Dh.k.?                                       -'        RAILWAYS
BANGkaJn#~V'~                Z           l          -  -- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                    cam7
IN.A- '- DlViSION BOUNDARIES
.D                                                   -         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-1                                                   0             25           50                MILES
J.i^7S"af/./sf                 °                50               100     KILOMETERS                                              2    _
LANKA                                                                                   I                                 9AK



