Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FU- cPY 4
Report No. P-,s749-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 23.4 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
March 12, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of reference
currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention currency. On
February 23, 1984, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 25.17 buying
and Tk 25.23 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown
below have been used:
US$               = Taka 24.5
Taka 1            = US$ 0.0408
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric units have been used throughout)
1 hectare (ha)                  =  2.471 acres
1 square meter (m )             = 10.760 square feet
1 square meter (m )             =  1.196 square yards
1 tonne                         =  0.984 long tons
1 kilogram per hectare (kg/ha) =  0.892 pounds per acre
1 meter                         =  3.281 feet
1 meter                         =  1.094 yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BARC    -      Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI    -      Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU     -      Bangladesh Agricultural University
BFRI    -      Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
BLRI    -      Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
GOB     -      Government of Bangladesh
MTFPP   -      Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NIFR    -      National Institute of Fisheries Research
PP      -      Project Proforma
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:          SDR 23.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Proiect:         The proposed second agricultural research project would
support the Government's efforts to: (a) develop a strong
research coordination, planning and monitoring organization
at the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC);
(b) bring livestock, fisheries and forestry more effectively
into the research system by establishing autonomous
institutes for fisheries and livestock research and by
strengthening the Forestry Research Institute; (c) strengthen
the national research station network; (d) continue financing
priority research areas through a contract research scheme;
and (e) provide scientists with training and an opportunity
to participate in national research planning.
Risks:           There are no major risks to this project.  The principal
risks are that scientists would not come forward with
research proposals and that the results of research would not
be used by the farmers. The past performance of the research
scientists has demonstrated their ability to develop
meaningful programs. Farmers have also in the past
demonstrated their ready acceptance of improved technology.
Incorporation into technology packages of improvements in
livestock, fisheries and forestry would further enhance the
likelihood of farmers acceptance of research
recommendations. Another possible risk is the lack of
coordination between research and extension. The linkage
between research and extension is being strengthened through
the IDA-financed Extension and Research II Project (Credit
1215-BD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: /a
Items                             Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ Millions -----
Strengthening of BARC                  0.7        0.4      1.1
Contract Research                      8.2        1.2      9.4
Strengthening of BARI                  1.0        0.4      1.4
Livestock                              1.8        0.6      2.4
Fisheries                              1.8        1.0      2.8
Forestry                               1.8        1.1      2.9
Staff Development
and Training                     0.8       3.1       3.9
Technical Assistance                   0.7        1.4      2.1
Total Base Costs                      16.8        9.2     26.0
Physical Contingency                   0.5        0.5      1.0
Price Contingency                      3.1        2.1      5.2
Total Project Cost                    20.4       11.8     32.2
/a Includes duties and taxes of US$ 2.7 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
----- US$ Millions -----
IDA                                       14.1       10.4      24.5
UNDP                                       0.7        1.4        2.1
Government                                 5.6         -         5.6
Total                                     20.4       11.8      32.2
Estimated
Disbursement:
IDA FY         FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual              0.49    2.45    6.12    7.84    5.15    2.45
Cumulative          0.49    2.94    9.06   16.90   22.05   24.50
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:      BANGLADESH:  Agricultural Research II Project,
Report No. 4520-BD, dated February 10, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 23.4
million (the equivalent of US$24.5 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Agricultural Research Project. Parallel financing in the
form of a grant of about US$ 2.1 million equivalent would be made by the
UNDP.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4, 1983)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with very high population density and widespread
poverty (annual income per head averages about US$140 at present). The
economy, dominated by agriculture, remains acutely vulnerable to disruption
by both natural and external factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain
production remains heavily dependent on weather conditions and falls short of
total needs. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability complicate fiscal
management due to the need to manage public foodgrain stocks and often impose
an additional strain on the balance of payments.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, reflecting the
low level of incomes, and by a very large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a small fraction of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30% of the import bill, and over 60% of merchandise exports are accounted for
by raw jute and jute goods. The resource gap of around 15% of GDP is
financed by workers' remittances, which have risen rapidly to over 5% of GDP
in recent years, and by foreign assistance of around 10% of GDP per year.
The capacity for imports can be sharply affected by a combination of factors
which are beyond the control of the Government and whose disruptive effect on
the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of the Government's revenue
base on import duties and sales taxes (together accounting for 60% of tax
revenues).
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I antd
II of the President's Report for the Fifth Technical Assistance Project
(Report No. P-3705-BD) dated January 11, 1984.



-2-
5.      In spite of these problems, the late 1970s were a period of political
stability and economic consolidation and provided an opportunity to plan for
longer-term development. GDP growth of close to 6% p.a. from FY75 to FY80
was accompanied by rising public investment, financed by a substantial real
increase in aid disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and exter-
nal events during FY81 and FY82 disrupted the momentum of development. The
corrective actions taken in FY83 have, however, been reasonably successful in
stabilizing the short-term external and budgetary situation and, despite the
severe limits on available resources, there are prospects for renewed modest
economic growth.
Recent Economic Developments
6.      From FY80 to FY82, a sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and
jute products and of major non-traditional exports, combined with rising
import prices (especially for petroleum) to cause a decline of over 30% in
Bangladesh's terms of trade. At the same time, external aid inflows, which
had risen steadily until FY80, declined in FY81; they recovered in FY82, but
only to 4% above FY79 flows in real terms. Prolonged drought adversely
affected the FY82 and FY83 crops. The shortfall in FY82 foodgrain production
(0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81 levels) led to high food prices and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to well below the
level considered sufficient for food security. Substantial commercial
foodgrain imports were required, imposing further strain on the balance of
payments, while reduced agricultural production and incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors.
7.      During FY81, the Government attempted to cope with the intensifying
external resource constraint by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowings, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with other central
banks, some run-down of reserves, and assistance from the IMF under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government
incurred a large bank-financed budget deficit and credit ceilings agreed with
the IMF could not be met. In FY82 the Government sought to contain import
growth through a variety of measures, including a substantial depreciation of
the Taka by 22% against the US dollar. Nevertheless, despite an increase in
workers' remittances, from $210 million in FY80 to over $400 million in FY82,
and further short-term borrowing, foreign exchange reserves declined to about
US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by the end of FY82.
8.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate also had a major
adverse impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government receipts
of local counterpart funds were reduced as a result of declining commodity
aid flows, as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes. These
problems were exacerbated by inadequate financial planning and by poor finan-
cial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and
delays in increasing sales prices. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion (2.5% of
GNP) emerged in FY81, even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cut back by 12% in the second half of FY81. Despite a similar cutback in the



-3-
FY82 ADP, recourse to substantial bank financing was avoided only because of
a run-down of public food stocks following poor harvests. Nevertheless, a
sharp rise in foodgrain prices in mid-FY82, combined with the inflationary
pressures caused by exchange rate depreciation and a rapid expansion of
domestic liquidity in late FY81, resulted in a 15% rise in the consumer
prices during FY82.
9.      The Government introduced a wide range of austerity measures with its
FY83 budget (in July 1982), designed to adjust the economy to the serious
resource constraints. Development expenditure plans for FY83 were reduced by
nearly 20%, in line with expected resource availabilities, and the increase
in recurrent expenditures was limited to 14%, only slightly above the
forecast inflation level.  The Government also introduced new tax measures
designed to yield about 0.5% of GDP in FY83. In addition, a number of sub-
stantial subsidy and pricing adjustments were made to reduce consumption,
protect investments and to improve the financial performance of public sector
enterprises and utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy
reduction measures amounted to an impressive 2.5% of GDP. Measures were also
taken to improve balance of payments management, including a further 11%
depreciation of the exchange rate during FY83, higher import duty rates,
financing the import of more commodities through the Wage Earners' Scheme,l/
abolition of selected export duties and improvements in export financing.
IMF assistance to Bangladesh was resumed under a Stand-by Arrangement in
March 1983 which covered the period until August 1983.
10.     While these measures were effective in helping to restore short-term
economic stability, their effect, combined with depressed private sector
demand following poor harvests during 1982, resulted in low GDP growth (2.4%)
in FY83, following a 1.5% decline in FY82. The budgetary situation in FY83
was satisfactory, due to resource mobilization efforts, the depreciation of
the Taka which largely offset the negative budgetary impact of reduced import
volumes, further foodgrain sales, and increased commodity aid disbursements.
The balance of payments was helped by a recovery in aid levels, better terms
of trade resulting from lower petroleum and food import prices, depressed
import volumes, and a further growth of remittances to around US$600 million.
Foreign exchange reserves increased to US$340 million, representing about six
weeks' import equivalent, by the end of FY83. Following good winter crops,
foodgrain production for FY83 reached a record 15.1 million tons and infla-
tionary pressures eased. While the short-term outlook has improved, the
resource constraints remain severe, calling for a continuation of cautious
macro-economic policies and consistent efforts to strengthen the productive
sectors, and further resource mobilization.
1/ Under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), foreign exchange earnings
remitted by Bangladeshi workers abroad are sold in auction to importers
requiring foreign exchange.



-4-
11.     The FY84 budget reflects the need to consolidate the gains made last
year and to set the stage for a broadened domestic revenue mobilization
effort in the future. The total tax effort is expected to increase from
about 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84. Domestic taxes, which accounted
f'or 3.6% of GDP in FY83, will generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY84 (mainly due
to the rapid growth in the lightly taxed agricultural sector in FY84), but
new tax measures have been introduced whose full revenue impact will be felt
only in FY85 and thereafter. Recurrent expenditures will again be tightly
controlled, and the current budget surplus should increase substantially.
T'he ADP is budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion (5% higher in real terms than
the actual FY83 ADP).  Resources not generated by external aid inflows will
finance 19.2% of the ADP: this represents only 2.2% of GDP and highlights
the urgency of mobilizing more domestic resources for development financing.
A Core Program of 435 projects has been specified, accounting for 73% of the
ADP and providing ample room for adjusting expenditures to actual resource
availabilities.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     The Second Five-Year Plan for FY81-85 accords highest priority to
(i) reducing population growth from the present rate 2.6% p.a., (ii) achiev-
ing foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) eliminating mass illiteracy, and
(iv) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
,which aims at increasing foodgrain production to 20 million tons. Foodgrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate
producer incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an
expanded role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate
('74%), the Plan's emphasis on primary education is well founded, but the goal
oE achieving universal primary education by 1985 is unattainable in view of
resource and managerial constraints. Prospects for achieving the objectives
oE educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be
improved by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will require
more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially with regard
to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor implementation and
have had only limited success. The Government has recently taken steps to
coordinate its birth control activities and to strengthen training programs
for field staff. A medium-term implementation plan for the population sector
is currently being prepared with Bank assistance.
13.     There is an urgent need to develop the country's energy resources.
particularly natural gas, since imported petroleum at present pre-empts about
t:hree quarters of merchandise export earnings. Ongoing and planned invest-
ments in the energy sector are designed to increase the production, distribu-
tion and utilization of natural gas as a substitute for imported fuel,
including studies aimed at determining the potential for future investments



-5-
in gas-based export industries. The recently approved Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project will assist the Government to appraise more fully the
country's gas reserves, determine the optimal pace of exploitation, and help
renew the interest of foreign oil companies to resume the search for oil.
Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy,
they would need to be properly planned under a phased priority program. The
Government has been slow to recognize this need, but is now endeavoring (with
IDA and ADB assistance) to formulate an appropriate energy sector investment
program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation measures and
the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels will also be
critical.
14.     There is an urgent need to address directly the growing problems of
rural poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is
functionally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated sig-'
nificantly since the 1970s with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force
finding gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not
suffice to resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large
projected growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously,
therefore, to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry
and non-foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- espe-
cially small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated,in one
sub-sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     Studies of the industrial sector have highlighted the distorting
effects of existing trade and industrial policies on resource allocation in
the sector. An ongoing program of studies is expected to lead to a medium-
term program of actions to be implemented -- including modifications in the
existing tariff structure, domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives,
export policies, and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced in 1982, provides for a
greater role of the private sector in economic development. Many of the key
elements of this policy are already being implemented, including the divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries to the private
sector.
16.     The Government has revised the Second Five-Year Plan in the light of
the sharp deterioration of the external environment, and its recent Annual
Development Programs (ADPs) have reflected more realistic assessments of
likely resource availability. A "core program" of projects amounting to
around 75% of the ADP has been identified to ensure that high-priority
activities are not disrupted by possible further adjustments to changing
circumstances. This approach has already helped project implementation
during FY83, but it should be recognized that the investment program is
extremely small in relation to the total needs of the economy. As external
assistance will continue to be constrained, there is an urgent need for a
sustained and intensive domestic resource mobilization effort, consistent
with the initiative taken in the FY83 budget to raise tax revenues, reduce
subsidies and improve the financial performance of public enterprises. In
the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to reduce its present



-6-
dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax
system. In addition, private savings should be stimulated through
appropriate interest rate policies and improvements in the banking and credit
system.
17.     Realization of the Government's objectives will also require improve-
ments in development administration. There is a critical need to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation and project implementation, streamline
administrative procedures, and improve decision making processes.
Recognizing that local government bodies can play an effective role in the
development effort, the Government has decided to decentralize a number of
planning and administrative functions to the up-graded Thana (Sub-District)
level. Accordingly, sub-district administrations are being reorganized and
strengthened to enable them to take on most development activities at the
local level.  The implementation and impact of this policy will need to be
closely monitored.
External Debt
18.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem in the past, but will become a heavier burden in the
next few years as debts incurred in the first years after independence are
increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on external
public M&LT debt are expected to rise from 6.8% of export earnings (goods and
services, including workers' remittances) in FY82 to 11.8% in FY84 and 13.7%
in FY86. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations
will remain modest over this period, rising slowly from 9.7% of the total in
FY83 to 10.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding and
undisbursed is projected to increase from 30.4% in FY82 to 36.3% in FY86.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.2 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan (US$54.9 million) and credit
(US$31.04 million) to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence were approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1983, 72 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,400.64
million; of these, US$862.03 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of
September 30, 1983. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC,
and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion
company) have been approved.



-7-
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(22 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1983, and two fertilizer
import credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity. IDA is supporting increased
production of natural gas to substitute for imported fuels as well as
exploration and promotion of oil and gas to meet growing demand for commer-
cial energy. Assistance for developing telecommunications is designed to
improve the efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social activities.
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, a
textile industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-scale industry
projects and two IFC investments.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA
and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision
in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assis-
tance both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to
improve planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.



-8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTEM
25.     A major problem with Government agricultural planning in the past
has been the bureaucratic isolation of each component of the agriculture
system under separate agencies. This has been particularly apparent in
research which has produced items of new technology appropriate to the needs
of the country, particularly in the area of variety improvement, but where
many fundamental gaps still exist. Little advice based on sound research can
be offered to farmers on such matters as efficient cropping systems or
integrating livestock, fisheries and forestry to best advantage.
.26.    Bangladesh has an extensive but fragmented agricultural research
System.  Separate research organizations, universities and institutes have
been functioning independently with no well-defined responsibility towards an
integrated national research system. Each research institute, frequently
aided by donor agencies, has adopted a policy of building independent
i-acilities, staff and research programs. This has led to duplication of
facilities and research effort. Only with the creation and strengthening of
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) in recent years has there
been any move to coordinate research.
27.     The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) established BARC in 1973 as an
autonomous agency with responsibility for drawing up research priorities,
coordinating the research efforts of the various institutes, evaluating
research programs and facilities, and preparing manpower development programs
and national research plans. A nucleus of Member Directors and Directors at
BARC are responsible for evaluating research proposals and for coordinating
and monitoring the Contract Research Scheme (see paragraphs 37, 49 and 57).
The GOB would ensure that each position of Member-Director within BARC will
at all times be occupied by a person whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to GOB and IDA (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The process of establishing BARC as the lead agency for agricul-
tural research will be a lengthy one because of the institution building
required. IDA has been assisting in the development of BARC through the
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 828-BD) (see paragraph 33). One of the
main objectives of the proposed project is to strengthen further BARC's
position in the research community and reduce some of the fragmentation in
the system primarily through BARC's administration of the Contract Research
'cheme and setting of research priorities through the National Agriculture
Research Plan (see paragraph 48).
28.     The agricultural research network in Bangladesh is comprised of
specialized institutions such as: (a) the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
]Institute (BARI) which is responsible for research on field crops other than
rice, sugar or jute; (b) the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute; (c) the
Baingladesh Jute Research Institute; (d) the Sugarcane Research and Training
Institute; (e) the Forestry Research Institute; and (f) the Bangladesh Tea
Research Institute. A considerable amount of agricultural research is also



-9-
undertaken at the universities, particularly the Bangladesh Agricultural
University. The largest of these institutions is BARI with 22 regional
stations and substations. The main emphasis of agriculture research in
Bangladesh has been on field crop research. However, recently, GOB has given
a high priority to improving research in the largely neglected areas of
livestock, fisheries and forestry research.
29.     Livestock Research.  There is practically no specialized commercial
livestock production in Bangladesh. No land is devoted to stock feed produc-
tion and scarce feed supply is the key constraint in cattle development.
Research on livestock in Bangladesh is spread amongst many organizations. To
date livestock research has been fragmented, based on little knowledge of
farming systems, mostly unrelated to local animal production and efficiency
problems, and of little consequence to farmers.
30.     Fisheries Research.  Rapid population growth, injudicious fishing
practices and lack of investment in fisheries development have resulted in
fish supplies falling far below demand. The commercial exploitation of sea
fish in Bangladesh is a relatively new venture with much of the physical
facilities and expertise yet to be developed. Fisheries research is stiLl in
its early stages and is spread amongst many agencies and universities. To
date, most research has been generally unrelated to practical on-farm
problems and few recommendations for increasing fish production or produc-
tivity have emerged.
31.     Forestry Research.  The two main areas of natural forests in
Bangladesh are the hill forests of Chittagong in the south east, and the
tidal forests of the Sundarbans in the south west; production in these areas
is far below potential, particularly in the hill tracts. As a result of
increasing population demands and a shortage of suitable land for forestry,
wood is becoming a scarce and expensive commodity. The Bangladesh Forestry
Research Institute (BFRI) in Chittagong took over responsibility for all
forestry research in 1972. Few of the scientists have technical forestry
training and BFRI's field stations have few laboratory, office or domestic
facilities and virtually no transport.
IDA Assistance to Agricultural Research
32.     Previous IDA assistance to agricultural research has been through two
Extension and Research Projects (Credit 729-BD and Credit 1215-BD) and the
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 828-BD). The two Extension and
Research Projects were aimed at intensifying extension and applied research
efforts in 20 districts by introducing the Training and Visit System, reor-
ganizing the extension agencies and providing limited assistance to BARI's
research stations and the BARC Contract Research Scheme. Small research
components were included in the two extension projects primarily to focus on
the problem of strengthening the linkages between research and extension,
thereby improving farmer access to research findings.



-10-
33.     The Agricultural Research Proiect (Credit 828-BD) has assisted BARC
in planning, coordinating and monitoring agricultural research on a national
basis. The project also supported development at three BARI Regional
Research Stations. After a slow start, good progress was made. A National
Agricultural Research Plan, outlining research priorities, was published in
1979. Physical works at BARI stations were generally satisfactory although
socio-political problems prevented a start being made on the border area site
in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. External evaluation of the Contract Research
Scheme sub-projects showed that the scheme was working well. In mid-1982,
however, at the point when the BARI Regional Stations were mostly complete
and staffed, there was a lack of operating funds as a result of a national
shortage of local currency (see paragraph 8). Recently, USAID has provided
funds for operating costs to BARI's field stations under PL480, thus reliev-
ing the Taka shortage problem for BARI.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.     The crop related components of the proposed project were prepared
during 1982 by a team from the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
(BARC) with assistance from the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
(BARI) scientists. Subsequently a reassessment by GOB of national research
priorities broadened the project to include livestock, fisheries and
forestry. Because of institutional weaknesses within livestock and fisheries
research these components were only prepared in outline by staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with the appraisal mission in February
1983. Consequently, final details of these components would be planned
during the first six months of project implementation by consultants who
would also be providing, at the same time, much needed assistance in
strengthening and developing the livestock, fisheries and forestry research
institutions. The project was identified and prepared by BARC, and was
appraised by IDA in February/March 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4520-BD, dated February 10, 1984) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. in December, 1983; the Bangladesh delegation was led by
Dr. A.T.M. Shamsul Ruda, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Obiectives and Components
35.     The primary objective of the Second Agricultural Research Project
would be to support GOB's efforts to develop a strong research coordination,
planning and monitoring organization at BARC, bring livestock, fisheries and
forestry more effectively into the research system, and strengthen the
national research station network. The principal components of the project
would be: (a) strengthening BARC through additional facilities and staff and
by improving financial management and accounting procedures; (b) continued
funding of a Contract Research Scheme; (c) provision of infrastructure,
equipment, machinery and vehicles at four BARI stations, and a mobile service
unit for machinery repairs; (d) provision of facilities for the Bangladesh
Livestock Research Institute at Savar Livestock Farm with its subsidiary



-11-
station at Baghabarighat; (e) provision of facilities for the National
Institute for Fisheries Research; (f) strengthening the Bangladesh Forestry
Research Institute by providing additional facilities for breeding and
testing, and machinery, equipment, and vehicles and infrastructure to field
stations; (g) providing training for higher degrees and overseas in-service
training; and (h) technical assistance for program development in livestock,
fisheries, forestry training, contract research evaluation, data retrieval
and audit.
Detailed Features
A. Strengthening BARC
36.     The proposed project would continue the development of the physical
facilities of the BARC office complex in Dhaka, including a guest house to
accommodate visiting scientists and additional facilities for the BARC con-
ference room. BARC's increased responsibilities for coordinating donor
involvement with national research, and particularly for administering the
expanding Contract Research Scheme are imposing a strain on the data
retrieval systems and on accounting procedures. To develop and implement an
appropriate data retrieval system, BARC would employ a qualified local
accountancy organization. Similarly a local firm would be engaged to audit
the Contract Research Scheme. Vehicles and incremental staff would also be
funded under the proposed project.
37.     Contract Research Scheme.  The project would continue assistance to
the Contract Research Scheme established with BARC under the first project
for sub-projects to be carried out on a contract basis. The Contract
Research Scheme is a line of credit to fund all investment and operating
costs of the research sub-project, excluding scientists' salaries.
Procedures for administering the Contract Research Scheme have developed over
the years with assistance from external technical assistance and contribu-
tions from several donor agencies (see paragraphs 49 and 57). All research
organizations in Bangladesh would be eligible to submit research proposals
for financing under such grants made by BARC.
B. BARI Field Stations and Research Program
38.     BARI's regional stations were largely developed under the first
Agricultural Research Project and require only minor investment to make them
fully functional. However, until recently, little attention has been paid to
the sub-stations, all of which are staffed but most have inadequate
facilities. Farm development works together with renovation of buildings and
provision of stores and threshing floors would be undertaken in varying
amounts at the BARI field stations at Akbarpur, Pabna, Pahartali and Shampur.
Essential housing for scientists would be constructed at three of the sta-
tions and equipment provided for all four stations. A fully staffed and
equipped farm machinery workshop would be established at BARI headquarters,
Joydebpur. An important feature of the workshop would be its mobile service
unit facility which would travel on a regular schedule to out-stations to
undertake on-the-spot repairs of laboratory and agricultural field equipment.
Staff training would also be undertaken (paragraphs 43 and 44).



-12-
C. Livestock Research
39.     A condition of credit effectiveness would be that GOB had established
the Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI) under the administrative
control of the Livestock and Fisheries Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture and that the position of Director of BLRI had been filled (Sec-
tion 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); GOB would provide
it with adequate staff, funds and facilities as necessary to enable BLRI to
carry out its functions (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The BLRI has taken over most of the facilities of the Ministry
of Agriculture's Savar Livestock Farm, including existing buildings, staff
and equipment. A subsidiary research farm of BLRI has been established at
Baghabarighat by transferring existing laboratories, staff and equipment,
which were under another ministry to BLRI.
40.     The project would provide consultants to plan the BLRI work program,
incremental civil works, equipment and additional staff requirements. Based
on this, the project would renovate and modify buildings and construct addi-
tional staff quarters at Savar. Existing equipment would be repaired or
replaced to meet the needs of the identified work program. Vehicles would be
provided for the BLRI staff. Adequate numbers of technicians are employed by
GOB at Savar to support the research program. The project would provide
incremental senior research staff and their support requirements.
Maintenance requirements for cattle, goats and poultry for the research
program would be provided by the proposed project. An important part of the
consultant's work program would be to assist in the preparation of research
proposals for BARC funding. A national livestock survey would be carried out
under the project and the findings would be used to re-define priority live-
stock research.
D. Fisheries Research
41.     A condition of credit effectiveness would be that GOB had also estab-
lished a National Institute for Fisheries Research (NIFR) under the
administrative control of the Livestock and Fisheries Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and that the position of Director of NIFR had been
filled (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); GOB
would provide it with adequate staff, funds and facilities as necessary to
enable NIFR to carry out its functions (Section 3.04 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition to the central institute, the
NIFR encompasses the four existing fisheries research stations at Chandpur,
Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar and Mymensingh and a fifth station for brackish
water fisheries would be added.  The project would provide consultants to
plan the development of NIFR and prepare research proposals for BARC funding.
Following recommendations from the consultants, existing offices and
laboratories at Chandpur would be renovated, existing equipment repaired, and
new equipment would be purchased. The project would establish a
Brackishwater Research Station in Khulna District, probably building on the
facilities which exist at the Benarpota crop research station, where saline
conditions now preclude crop growth. Administrative buildings, houses,



-13-
laboratories and experimental ponds would be constructed at the station
identified by the consultants. GOB would provide to IDA by June 30, 1985 the
site selection, development plans and work program for the Brackishwater
Research Station to be established in Khulna District (Section 3.04(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The project would provide the incremen-
tal senior staff necessary for the operation of NIFR. Vehicles would be
provided for senior staff travel and on-station work. Incremental operating
expenditure would be provided for fish hatchery management, vehicle operation
and labor payments.
E. Forestry Research
42.     The proposed project would strengthen the Bangladesh Forestry
Research Institute (BFRI) at Chittagong by means of a general support program
to replace or rehabilitate existing institute facilities, by the provision of
a biostatistics unit, and by the establishment of a seed center at BFRI
headquarters. Three specific sub-projects would be carried out under the
project: (i) species trials and testing at four research stations, to select
fast growing tree species and provenances for different ecological
conditions, (ii) tree breeding and seed orchard development at five orchard
centers, to up-grade the breeding program and refine seed collection and
processing procedures, and (iii) a site capacity survey, to establish the
methodology and parameters for site evaluation in plantation work. Staff and
labor housing, simple laboratories and stores would be constructed at field
stations. The project would establish and maintain tree nurseries and
experimental plantations, and undertake seed collection operations. Survey
and laboratory equipment, field tools and cartographic facilities would be
provided as well as vehicles, incremental salaries for essential support
staff and labor, and recurrent costs for running the specific programs.
Funds for publication of past research and for library materials would also
be provided.
F. Staff Development and Training
43.     The project would continue the process of manpower development in
agricultural research with particular focus on the neglected areas of
forestry, fisheries and livestock. Procedures for administering the training
program, including the selection criteria, were established under the first
project and are acceptable to IDA. These procedures have been published as
part of a master training plan for the agriculture research subsector.  The
program would emphasize in-country training using existing facilities. A
senior scientific officer, two training officers and support staff would be
recruited to the Training Cell of BARC to assist in administering the
program. Provision would be made for about 333 man years of post-graduate
fellowships (235 local; 64 in neighboring Asian countries and 34 in other
countries). Short-term training would be provided in two sub-programs:
(a) about 300 scientists would attend a series of one-month courses at the
Bangladesh College of Agricultural Science over a period of three years and
(b) 12 years of short-term foreign studies to enable 20-30 senior scientists



-14-
to take special courses. The local and overseas staff development and train-
ing programs would be carried out in accordance with a master plan satisfac-
tory to IDA (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.     Career development would be fostered by the following sub-programs:
(a) grants to enable about 180 professional agriculturists to move for about
one year between research establishments and organizations; (b) awards for
about 100 scientists and research administrators to attend international
workshops and conferences; (c) a BARC scholarship fund to enable about 300
awards to be made to technical support staff for two-year diploma courses;
(d) a BARC scholarship fund for about 50 one-year awards to research tech-
nicians for special technical training at foreign institutions; and (e) a
BARC fund for grants to research institutions to enable them to conduct
in-service training courses for research support staff and technicians. In
addition the project would provide funds for BARC to mount conferences,
seminars, and workshops.
Technical Assistance
45.     Technical assistance would be essential for planning and implementing
parts of the proposed project. The proposed project would provide a total of
298 man months of local consultants, at US$1,080 equivalent per man month and
165 man months of foreign consultants at US$10,300 per man month to cover the
full cost of consultant services including salary, fee, overhead, interna-
tional travel and subsistence. The assistance would be allocated as follows:
(a) 184 man months of local and 29 man months of foreign consultant services
for livestock; (b) 28 man months of local and 57 man months of foreign con-
sultant services for fisheries; (c) 48 man months of foreign consultant
services for forestry; (d) 24 man months of foreign consultant services for
training; and (e) 86 man months of local and 7 man months of foreign consult-
ant services for BARC. Consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines and would be employed with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.     Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Ministry of Agriculture. The following agencies would have project implemen-
tation responsibilities: BARC, BARI, BLRI, NIFR and BFRI.
47.     Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC).  BARC would be
responsible for coordination amongst research organizations. National
research would be coordinated through the mechanism of the National
Agricultural Research Plan (see paragraph 48) and by holding seminars and
workshops at BARC, research institutes and regional stations. BARC would be
the main project implementation agency and would administer the Contract
Research Scheme, and would employ all technical assistance consultants on
behalf of research institutes. BARC would also coordinate and monitor the
staff development and training program, administer funds and award fellow-
ships and grants.



-15-
48.     The National Aericultural Research Plan, produced by BARC in 1979
(see paragraph 33), would be brought up to date under the proposed project.
It would constitute the most important document for research orientation
during the proposed project period. The updated Plan would establish
research priorities as determined by the Government, IDA, and other donors in
consultation with all levels of the production system. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be that the Plan, satisfactory to IDA, had been approved
by GOB (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All
future research in agriculture would then be carried out in accordance with
the Plan (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). An
integral part of the National Research Plan would be outline plans for the
previously neglected sectors of livestock, fisheries and forestry. More time
would be needed to develop plans for these sectors into separate detailed
research Master Plans. These Master Plans, in a form acceptable to IDA,
would be required as a condition of disbursement against the Contract
Research Scheme (Schedule 1, Paragraph 4(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). While sufficient expertise exists within forestry to produce a
master plan, this is not the case in fisheries and livestock research. It
would, therefore, be a condition of credit effectiveness that the key con-
sultants needed to produce the master plans for livestock and fisheries had
been appointed (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.     Under the Contract Research Scheme. BARC would continue to solicit,
review and select sub-projects suitable for its support, and supervise and
evaluate them through its Technical Committee system. Criteria for the
selection of sub-projects and terms and conditions of the grants have been
established in the first agricultural research project and are acceptable to
IDA. A manual of procedures for the Contract Research Scheme, acceptable to
IDA, has been published and circulated to all research institutions,
universities, relevant GOB departments and donor agencies in Bangladesh.
BARC would administer the Contract Research Scheme in accordance with the
manual of procedures satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
50.     Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI).  The Director of
BARI would be responsible for all aspects of the project to be conducted on
BARI research stations. The Associate Director, Support Services, would
supervise the civil works and farm development programs. The work program at
regional stations and substations would be the responsibility of the
Associate Director, Farming Systems Research.
51.     Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI).  The Director of BLRI
would be responsible to the Additional Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture for all matters concerning livestock research. The BLRI Director
would be responsible for preparing the Master Plan for Livestock research and
for supervising the consultants who would undertake the detailed planning of
the livestock research facilities and work program.
52.     National Institute for Fisheries Research (NIFR).  Overall coordina-
tion of NIFR would be the responsibility of the Director who would be based



-16-
at the Riverine Fisheries Station at Chandpur and would be responsible to the
Additional Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Director would
supervise the consultants who would produce a comprehensive plan, work
program and budget for the Brackishwater Fisheries Station, prepare designs
and tender documents for required civil works at Chandpur and Khulna and
prepare anticipated staffing lists and training needs for NIFR.
53.     Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute (BFRI).  The Director, BFRI,
would be responsible for all aspects of the forestry research program and
would report through the Chief Conservator of Forests to the Secretary,
Agriculture and Forests Division. The Director, with Ministry staff and
assisted by consultants, would prepare the National Forestry Research Plan.
Project Costs
54.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$32.2 million including
duties and taxes estimated at US$2.7 million. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$11.8 million which is 40% of total net project costs.
Base cost estimates are expressed in December 1983 prices. Physical and
price contingencies amount to 20% of total project costs. Because the
Contract Research Scheme is being operated as a fund which will be drawn down
throughout the course of the project, neither physical nor price contingen-
cies have been added. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of
base costs for civil works, for detailed preparation of livestock and
fisheries components, maintenance cf research animals, plantation estab-
lishment and training; 5% has been estimated for all other costs, except for
vehicles, technical assistance and operating costs for which no physical
contingencies have been provided. Price contingencies for foreign costs have
been estimated at 7.8% for FY84, 8.2% for FY85, 6.7% for FY86 and 6.0% for
FY87-89. Local costs have been estimated on the basis of the following
domestic inflation rates: 10% in FY84-86, 9.5% in FY87-88 and 9.0% in FY89.
Project FinancinR
55.     The proposed IDA credit is US$24.5 M. UNDP intends to finance the
technical assistance component of US$2.1 M with grant funds. The IDA credit
and UNDP grant together would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs, 73% of
local costs and 90% of total project costs net of taxes and duties. GOB
contribution to the project would be US$5.6 M including taxes and duties, or
17% of total project costs. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
that the project proforma 1/ had been approved (Section 6.01(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement) and that the UNDP Project Document had been
executed and delivered (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
1/ The Project Proforma are internal government documents, approval of
which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-17-
Procurement
56.     Civil works and farm development (US$4.3 million) would be scattered
at about 22 sites throughout the country and over the project period. As
designs would be simple and construction techniques labor intensive, such
contracts would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
would be let through local competitive bidding using established GOB proce-
dures which are satisfactory to IDA. The total vehicle package (US$0.9
million) would consist of 42 motorcycles, 32 bicycles, 19 pickups, 11
minibuses, 10 cars, 4 microbuses, 2 local fishing boats, a mobile workshop
van, a motor boat and a truck. Since most project vehicles would be required
immediately and because of the need for after sales service, they would be
procured by competitive bidding advertised locally from suppliers of foreign
made vehicles who have a service network in Bangladesh and are from IDA
member countries.  Machinery and farm e uipment (US$3.5 million) would be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Miscellaneous items
of equipment and spares, grouped in packages less than US$50,000 and totaling
approximately US$0.5 million, would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
57.     Contract research grants (US$9.4 million) would be made to research
institutions which have been agreed with IDA. The average cost of a sub-
project is likely to be about $30,000 and it is estimated that about 320
grants would be made over a five year period. Most sub-projects would be
completed within a three year period. Experience with the first project
suggests that over 85% (US$8.4 million) of expenditure on contract research
would be for operating expenses. About US$1.0 million would be for
laboratory equipment which would be grouped into packages less than US$50,000
and would be procured using limited international bidding procedures.
Contract review: Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing
$100,000 or more and for machinery, equipment, vehicles and other goods and
services costing $50,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for review prior
to invitation to bid. This would result in about 15% of contracts covering
40% of the value of all contracts being subject to prior review.
Disbursement
58.     Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of:  (a) civil
works and farm development, 90%; (b) goods, 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 70% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally; (c) training, 100%; (d) research
subprojects: (i) livestock, (ii) fisheries, (iii) forestry, and (iv) other,
100% of eligible expenditures; and (e) incremental salaries and operating
costs of the implementing agencies: FY86, 80%; FY87, 60%; FY88, 40% and
FY89, 20%. Disbursements against item (d), farm development in item (a) and
item (e) would be on the basis of certified statements of expenditure for
which BARC would retain supporting documents which would be made available to
IDA representatives on request. All disbursements made against statement of
expenditures would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA and the



-18-
documents would be retained after audit for at least one year. Disbursements
against items (b) and (c) and civil works in item (a) would be fully
documented.
Accounts and Audit
59.     BARC, BARI, BFRI, BLRI and NIFR would each maintain project accounts
separate from their regular accounts and the project accounts would be
audited by the Auditor General's office annually. The audited accounts would
be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of the fiscal year (Sec-
tion 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). BARC would maintain
separate financial records for transactions under each contract research
sub-project. All documents in support of the Contract Research Scheme would
be independently audited annually and these audit reports would be sent by
the independent auditor to GOB with a copy to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year. The independent audit reports of the Contract
Research Scheme would be incorporated into the audited project accounts to be
submitted to GOB and IDA by the Auditor General.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.     Monitoring of the physical execution of project works would be the
responsibility of the Directors of BARI, BLRI, NIFR, BFRI and the Executive
Vice-Chairman of BARC, and would be based on quarterly progress reports.
Evaluation of the impact of the project would be conducted at project comple-
tion by BARC. A mid-term review of project activities would be conducted by
IDA in early 1986, to determine whether project objectives, particularly in
relation to the integration of livestock, fisheries and forestry into
national research, were being achieved. The project would be implemented
over six years.
Benefits
61.     Attempts to quantify economic benefits from agricultural research is
essentially a speculative process. It is particularly difficult to
accurately apportion benefits from a new technology package between research,
the efforts to promote the technology, the delivery system for new input
requirements and the training needed to ensure the correct use of the new
technology. Recent evaluations of the impact of research in Bangladesh
suggest that the benefit/cost ratio of rice research has been 38:1, of wheat
33:1 and oilseeds 16:1. Thus, as with other agricultural research projects,
the returns to this project are expected to be high and well beyond the
opportunity cost of capital.
Risks
62.     The principal risks faced by the project are that scientists would
not come forward with research proposals and that the results of research
would be inappropriate to the needs of farmers, or if appropriate, would not
be conveyed to or used by farmers. There is no evidence that these risks are



-19-
great. The performance of research scientists over the past several years
has demonstrated their ability to develop meaningful programs. Scientific
capability and potential in Bangladesh is substantial and the development of
national research plans and priorities would focus attention on farming
problems and generate research proposals. Another possible risk is the lack
of coordination between research and extension. Farmers have demonstrated
their ready acceptance of improved technology and IDA is assisting in the
strengthening of research/extension linkages in Bangladesh through the Second
Extension and Research Project (Credit 1215-BD).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be: (a) UNDP Project Document had been executed and delivered (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); (b) BLRI and NIFR had
been established and that the positions of Director, BLRI and Director, NIFR,
had been filled (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(c) key consultants for preparation of the master plans for Livestock and
Fisheries had been appointed (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); (d) a National Agriculture Research Plan, satisfactory to IDA had
been approved (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
and (e) the Project Proforma had been approved (Section 6.01(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The completion of master plans for Livestock,
Forestry and Fisheries would be a condition of disbursement against the
Contract Research Scheme. (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
65.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-20-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
M. Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
March 12, 1984



-21-                                                            Annex I
Page 1
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/1-b     1970-l-  ESTIMATE-          ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. X0)
TOTAL                                   144.0        144.0        144.0
AGRICULTURAL                             95.2         97.0          97.5
GNP PER CAPITA. (US$)                       40.0         60.0         140.0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..         28.0         49.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   53491.0          68117.0      90660.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             5.1          7.6          11.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  156.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          371.5         473.0        614.7                161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               561.9         702.5        903.3                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             44.3          46.3         42.8                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             52.5          51.1         54.6                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                            3.2          2.7          2.6                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.4          2.6                   1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                  3.6           6.3          6.5                  4.0                          3,9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             53.5         49.2          47.0                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             28.1         22.7         17.5                  10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.6          3.4           3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..        373.0       1607.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..         12.0                 48.1                         46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          106.0         101.0         93.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)           87.0         85.0         84.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0          43.0         42.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             9.0           9.0          7.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              24.9         23.0         19.7                  12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.3         41.6         47.8                  59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           159.0        150.3        134.7                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..         45.0         53.0ld               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    ..         13.0         15.07W               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..         47.0         55.0o7               22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
O                         TOTAL                                    ..          6.0           5.0/e               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..         40 . 0               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                  4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   ..        8430.0    10940.0                3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..       76810.0    24450.0                4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    ..        7020.0/f   4500.0/c              1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                    ..         820.07f    630.07W               298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    ..            ..    23360.07W              5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED                ..            ..           ..                   ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           5. 9/        5.8
URBAN                                    ..           6. 1jj       6.1
RURAL                                    ..           5.97          5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS To ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..          3.5
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - --------- -------------- ---------------------------------------------------



-22-                                                            Annex I
Page 2
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb          /b  RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960Lz~-    1970- ESTIMATEL'.           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     47.0         52.0         62.0                96.1                       101.2
MALE                      66.0         68.0        76.0                107.8                      106.0
FEMALE                   26.0         34.0         47.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      8.0         19.0         15.0                30.2                        44.9
MALE                      14.0        29.0         24.0                 37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     1.0         8.0          6.0                22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             1.0          0.8         14.3                  2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..        45.0         44.0                34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                               ..        26.0         21.0                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                21.6         23.0/h       26.0|c               53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..         0.4          0.4                 1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..         6.0          8.0                96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..          0.9                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..           ..           4.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..            ..                 3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           19252.0      23611.0      32341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     15.2         16.6         17.7                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                87.0         86.0         74.0                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.0          3.0         11.0                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7         35.7                42.5                        38.6
MALE                                 58.7         55.9         57.0                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               11.4         11.9         13.0                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4          1.3                 1.0                          1.1
lNCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             18.3/h         ..         14.6/j              16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.57h       44.1/i       42.27j              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9/h        8.777        6.9/3               6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.9_        19.677       18.271              17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        139.0/c             133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..        111.077             111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
-V- (..- PLhI CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                   ..          ..           ..                   ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         86.0/c              43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..          ..         86.077              51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Jb  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; /g 1973; /h 1963; /i 1967; /j 1974.
Nay 1983



-23-                                                                                               Annex I
Page 3
DEFINIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDSICATORS
N.tneel,alth.nuotOth  data are dra    from  e             .tie .geeraly judged the   ost  rtheritattr ted reliable, Sr should else he rated th-t they  oy ro  he intrrrtiu..siiy
r-iparbl hIcb nse of the 1-tk of  -rodardired degiritiers cod   -oropre used by differset ....ntrles Sr tolle-tiu  the date.  The date ar-  none..theless,.. usful to
destrho  orders of sagltude, Ondirete trends, aid ahurtatrire  tertade s.Jer doffer,ere   het-eree   'uIeac..
The  -f-eeIt- -grupt are (II the san  oruaty geny nof the subject coun try aed (2)  sa -tiry greup nubh  -us-  higher e-erug   lu-u    that the ouetry geenp of the
tub  ..er .rea ty   --ucet Our 0tigh lIram     Oill Repoters  greup eher  'tMiddle  Irtume Nort  erta an.d Mliddlr   - latIsahosen hean    feitgrstoclua
afttte)  nte  eerr  gopSdart the arrgs err ypultiun   eighted arithmeti  reac  fur each loditetur end sh.- rely thee seJorty  of the    . tuaeren  It 
grop bus data  u  ca  tdIrstu.  Sinc   the coerge of _uente   ocng the tedtr--r  depeode an rho  -reithaity Of dar  aii  note uI fuIrutn   sueth
e-ernI'd ta relating   r            Ofesa  ncr indicete  te annoher,  These aerruge   are only u..efnl in tpepoteg  the rube  of onI oItuu    tnrs    sn   h    onr   r
ref-r-t  gcuuy.1.h    d- ,                                                                                                                                     tie _Oth                 y.d
aRiA (thousand oq.km.l .uairre)sau        uaaiu    iie    ytuo    fpatu
190  ar  1900 dte.                                                                                Praleren pe  Nosndeer    uuaiui dIidd by e- me of p,-                        atit, o
..Sutuu     fsomet  ufagitltca  are  nee           fl.dtuspcoriy  u  1e96erilysal  ne   noegaut   usu    sitate,a,patrlhee 
1970 sod 1990 daa                                                                                     -ouatterSeyelSd-ttl  u-a,ud   rrl-Pplto    ctl
- E.ti.-  Of n,it                                                 P-P-l-~~~~~~~~~thee,   Pen rural) dPolded by theirroe eifudd number    of hosp tal hed
le   I  CPt   I0)    ISP                    Oecdt-plta olsotmotes... oucaesaht  ri ,"nI'lu'dle topuliur ytout  gec tereho, pcotrdhsl                                             n
1967, 1920  se    91dta                                                                                   ya   eattepysro.tteluene   enie   pIcplydatd
INSiS CPER     ?019 CCAIAPITnA                 apret(UsSyhr  ftemrta$m)                                            u   eteb    nrpeaetly-1 stuffed  byd a -pyctte  (bult by a  ticl,
pottry  recO   (cal ad lgnit, pornetes  osurulgasaid   yde-, erler                         oeistut,nurs, edrif, ec.)-hio   uferPi-peiertucidmidtiu   er
1560,1920,sod 100,dea.Ouran hapitai  inlde hOl  yrtgtpalfgr ..uIra    hoptas  aed1. beal
iRGYCiSUKtrueObsyPEalC  inIdAd b  the rom....                                                                                                         uf   bid.h teF....l                   fd
Irhar   eraleiet (setre   uP Ito!  -  r'inPf rhe  totutu-pediitu
different detlorlona  of echod5areas may sn leu coepe_shihitytS deta                SO-SIh
Poiung  uintere;  lSI,igOl sed 191dt.-uee    Irei ushl   consechathl)-ttl   re,adm
ostglrneInl,sdfeeylf  eyuacyasiile    i225drlng,rsetioytlelns  old   uopranr    intee    n
y1960      Th,    pcen1Qi7nOfrtlit   rteele9ar e`s  lot                                                  uuoau-Od.  forte.                                       Pt-t..-dt      h
cuhecuso   etltyedfettyiersfrpoetr    urue.e                                                       i,nhr  aid   ora  dro.ll ing d renpeitoely.             te
eahgnrtio,fctrrpae                                                  itsefrail.Te1rteayeceieto  utiVuged by  tho   rer  lenu                                stgso  rsetn
Ub.P.yi.. e   ie  u  otlaedattehaisu  teprje e  ohurotr-hyispy sbrubog                                                             pofieiou    bred..lde    hlrn   gdhl
lear starlrar  e-puletlac Srrace      Ieyar   atecanieayh._cnaod                                                              I pu tior  bria   r  br  ch   ffa      shnlae
pOptettsr    i:b   teabd                                                                              Secodar  taotl   tutiArol  andd       O ofemale- Cupud_       as o ire  serda
ycprlaiuu eusttyedotuioereqttsic   trustfourfearo   t fpyotil otycr  _escuti;
Pe   n    e    td-oeyplte eoqar    ioee    i    etrs  ut                                             yrntdr  ororol,  ouahoouh,or tache fruiing_rsouctns    f
toa  ue;   6 f90    ci10  dat'- ta,t                                                           pupil,t 1-   omutl  oft.. 12iP0yasr    g;crrupue                  ore    c
pepaloler;  961, 121, ed"090  dots                                                            Pupttl-teethelr rat  to -.;  1ris ber, an d ner.td 1  Trpia  stdets  e  ildi
puerieton Omn  late(percet)f- ttelt t- tual 5.en th ess   fttled                                    rrayAdsciayln l intded                       Od hy  .rhr  of ceuie.   n  heco
year popultotne far 1950-hO, l      hqhi-Ptyip, ord,190d-fl.S.respuediog  lerndl-.
Pupeisror ret   Sate              d Ipece t) -r is-dt aI groth raesufu.a Adu ti ..er                                    rote I eercrrcj  l-rliterat   adlt I uhiei t reed aId pte)usg
poutitn    hcr`1950-I0 096-0, ad.9.101ts-erEntag    ftooiiuipptrlcae   5yer   e   u
Crud  Stth Rte  per  huusnd)- aoua  hie tirhths        r per ihoro   fmd
he   uah   erdrI .s terid Tit she  -eperisus   presen  ag-specitytit.                          Afiedir reetn11e.. (po  thuadRratios)-Alt so   eenr   o   ai
19 h0                                                                                                 ii-ti-edrecetorsrun countrisfandttoyymTheathetiorgictotio  of ..d.
of hieth-centro    - deo tr d une    tniptc is of r thera   aiypauu puutce,Jhli .e .ienn.. .  f ...te    -,4                                                              df-
pengras.                                                                              Ta Orcetoern  (per thousand~~~~~~-ttd  bt-,  E   rItlut re t-r TI eaeoc n1hndatt
fetil  flntuf    Pur t    orothef carrIe   arose  -h Perceroord of   rle                                 generai  -ch.lt-yetocn    onste    niisolcee    qer
comt uf ctldharogOe  1-40ya                     h   ru    iibcofi ele   oriPcrre    i  In  er t aI   rog                                              11Yrittln or    hildris nor    t effct
flat dli OUTtITlIN    P                                                                               circa lot ton     - of  daii  o ifooult icceoth Oft Plier ly defiedgtaprmedca
offi-a'drv  r  ro i-y- ofPied),  Aggrega-te   kilndo      ...ee of 0 eah-,ono    OFry it..ilutie.. qi.   tj-f                                       -    fP
eosrgyequtooier.  of en  fond sepy tee anilble  fuorc    e  cpt  eortes,'Pl aid                              Il aoeyly1dho t noluding  fhgeu int,stdets  rt,  coeIng
royrate,- Aed ch-t,e inVeh              o  opis   nid    reife,sed,orao_                                               ;161   9!adli ag
q4 yatnirsdl  fodpocsig   ahed. lossesek indur                   -aie                                   Pea,t     eecu  -. resale lbrfrrnpeco eo   ntllbrfre
oqIreeettarretietedbyP565                eduspy      gilgraredIfeI               tl                     girioe(eret    laorforOrfrig   foestry,ti boting aid
V                          oce~~~~~~~.PItafty 90,190 aeoelhcnddeciog    V.t erlumno   Pee.tpeca of hey   -eghes                        ti      -hong as poaOtuOet oftl   eher force   096,19fed00de.
Fe_ brrbldtol  1961-61.  90  end190   Pae                                                                   i   lcrc        ,eterudgsu   ecnoeoftttlbrfre    00
ParlCotasoylyof  rrtio(grmseardey  -yrost  contes  of per- caitad90  and 1901 data.T 1                                                                               t:    .1eI
ne Gsplyo7fn0yrda.er   apl  offe1                  sdfndu  oh0s.1.rticrt-d                                       Sat ... pecct ;- dintel,  by10  and-  ofeml  -. Pg        p ttu o-
pu    ,- pr,oi  95to 0,ouhc   10 0 grs  ihul  he7 8ntmhi  prete Thslh,190en 191dg. breerbudori'sp trptu ae
atnodad    r   ue    hroosa   5grm    ftilpoened2   rr                                                    reflercoAd ng ago-se  utruotner o Li.thpoaei.tr    i   ogstreed
ofDtt m   Rote prcPoe  nh-odeug   MOur thderb,prpoedb  rt n  h                                         fe  st   te   er  rmretotlnoro
Thid  arIdPon  tuery   199 1-6, 190  and 1900                             O daod.                         o P-eetn leeety Ratio -.1 ra       ttioelopuotiodn  ruder 15ed  65-      fenrt
drt1a9ro7o0oi   aid  po 9se  itgaspet       a;ItlA,100rd10
a       tana,                                                                                 IStCONO UtSThfeTN
hiduna 1-h60eat  Saelerohoed) - A-            erld alt dea-ths- pe  tof mi   eProtg   frlcsItn   bt   oua   n    id      eeodb   ihs 
o19t70 at  dee   from  lIfe dtabes  1960, 10- andi981ddae.                                    hlsetolds
profaepe9bose  loe   irhs  ieAi, 190  e   1991, data.                         o                         AEolot  pont 'toce    tr pl I  tati-rooll reel hefo -itch g - stdim
,c-si a  St P. n roo   pete  ef,-aaA ertes                A es,ehn,   adcra                                 ut-ei-uety o& adeuat  diet . plu  scretd  O-fei  reatOd-r  i   r
yursrof  eole  toal,ocer,ae  rual  eth  easeoie  ecss to caf                                aff_tordohir.of  ed
omecnupy  irl-        e   trae    agc    aesr   eece    u fstiaty   Seaitn   Porri  Iscomo le ele -ii  pee cato  -    . nblo ardt ruralt
sanheer of cho hoesehuld donot hore in spend a disprop Riueef pertd efh poorp                                                      -T  r--t   -tb..   .
cree   d orhe ..Of pepe(ttl.       uhe uol i-   re)sre   hy ti.-tteucretoPbit- e- dpi ,y1:id                                                                                   P1d-
dorrel-n..      ro..  gesofthir  earoid    popoC'       Isoes.Ic        dt disposal,f-   t'l                                                                       1
may tolude cs collotteesod diposal,ctb  e   I'lheltpreimerIt,ef                                                                      Ovueomfc adIRacialdair Itnt-Or1.
hoe   nosaadent-ue  by                  - e ter- orse  ystes o    theus  e   itIcny Iseysi tai  Prejenrie                                                                        - Saeim
prirts oe  ritOar-Ietud-Jiur.gCoB 190



ANNEX 1
-24-                                                            Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$140 (1982)
Amount
(million US$              Average Annual Increase (%)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (W)
in current prices)             (in constant prices)                            (in current prices)
Indicator                      FY82             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY80-82           FY60    FY70    FY75    FY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product la            10,947              4.0       -0.6         5.5      3.5          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture la                      5,107               3.1      -1.3        3.3       2.4           59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                         1,506              7.9       -3.2        6.4       3.8           7.7      9.6    11.3    12.7    13.8
Services /a                         4,334              4.9        3.3        8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                          11,373               4.4      -0.7         6.0      3.5           92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment             1,506              10.9     -10.9         2.0     -6.5           6.9    11.3       8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                  841               0.8     -11.7        3.4       9.3           10.0     8.3      3.0      7.8      7.7
Imports of goods & nfs                2,774               8.8     -12.0        6.1       1.4            9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3
Gross national savings                 -111              26.5     -17.7       22.1    -38.8             0.9     6.1      1.0      4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million US$                     Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
in current prices)                            (in current Drices)
FY82                         FY73        FY75        FY80       FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                     627.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
Primary lb                            193.9                          40.4        31.5        29.6       30.9
Manufactures                          433.1                          59.6        68.5        70.4       69.1
Merchandise imports                   2,587.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
Food                                  360.8                          44.1        42.2        30.2       13.9
Petroleum                             560.6                           3.2        11.1        16.2       21.7
Machinery &lequipment                 676.1                          13.8        11.5        23.0       26.1
Other                                 989.5                         38.9         35.2        32.0       38.2
FY74     FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                         140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7           267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                 7.9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400
Export price index                                   104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9           175.7    147.7
Import price index                                   144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    208.9    234.9           263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                  72.1      63.4      57.4      61.1      75.0      77.0     84.7       66.6      56.5
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY75     FY77      FY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                               5.4       9.5       10.5        11.6
Current expenditure                                           4.5       7.8        7.7         8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           +0.9      +1.7      + 2.8       + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                           3.1       9.5       13.3        12.4
Foreign financing                                             2.4       6.0        8.2         8.0
FY60-70       FY70-75       FY75-80      FY80-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                            4.2          -0.6             6.5         3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                 1.5          -3.0             4.0         0.9
not available
= not applicable
la At market prices.
/b Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
August 31, 1983



Annex I
-25-                                                            Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                  Estim. Projected
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83             FY84
Net exports of goods                                  -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,960  -1,685   -1,790
Exports of goods                                       344      372      405      490      610      722      711      627     655       750
Imports of goods                                    -1,403  -1,275    -875  -1,349  -1,556  -2,372  -2,533  -2,587  -2,340   -2,540
Net exports of services                                    21     - 7      -29      -32      -28        4       15      -70      -90     -102
llorkers' remittances                                      35       29      60      113      143      210      379      412      600       650
Gurrent account balance                               -1.003    -882    -439    -778    -831  -1.436  -1,428  -1.618  -1,175   -1,242
Direct private investment                                  ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
MLT loans (net)                                          498      498      238      398      420      581      513      498      540       607
Grants & grant-like flows                                382      245      265      393      553      592      584      697      720       735
Other capital flows (net)                                274       87       17      -39      -16      145      307      295      -57     -100
Cbange in reserves (-   increase)                       -151       53      -81       25    -124       119       24      128      -28         -
Internatioual reserves (end of period)                   266      213      294      269      393      274      250      122      150       150
Reserves as months of imports of next year              2.4      2.6      2.4      1.9      1.8      1.2      1.1     0.5      0.7       0.6
Actual
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      382      245      265      393      553     592      584      697
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     519      564      268      435     477      631      562      539
Concessional                                       458      533     244      401      456      600      541      467
Bilateral                                       343      390      144      262      213      273      255
IDA                                             113      128       86       88      153      152      170      158
Other multilateral                                 3       15      14       51       91      177       83
Non-concessional                                    60       31       24      35       20       30       21       72
Official export credits                           19        -       -        -        -        -        -        4
IBRD                                              -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Other multilateral                                27      18        6        2        3       17        3       26
Private                                           15      13       18       32       17       13       19       42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding & disbursed (end of period)  1,355   1,797   2,053   2,571   2,951   3,216   3,615   3,979
Official                                        1,233   1,689   1,940   2,436   2,808   3,067   3,491   3,835
IBRD                                             55       55       55       55       55       55       55       55
IDA                                             255      380      466      554      707      859   1,027   1,181
Other                                            923   1,254   1,419   1,827   2,047   2,154   2,379   2,599
Private                                            122      108     113      135      142      149      124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                   1,019      948   1,016   1,335   1,659   1,718   2,103   2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                           31       88       59       69       95       94      92       87
Interest                                            10       22       28      32       38       43       42       47
Payments as % of export earnings                       7.3    20.3    12.7    12.1    13.1    10.6    10.0    10.3
Payments as x of GNP                                   0.2      1.2      0.9      0.8      1.0      0.8     0.7      0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (X)
Official                                             2.0      1.6      1.5      1.3      1.3      1.2     1.6       1.8
Private                                              2.3      7.8      6.4      6.2     6.1      6.9    10.8       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                            36.2    42.2    40.6    38.6    36.3    34.2    35.0    35.6
Private                                             15.3    11.3    11.0        9.5    14.8    19.3       7.6    11.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (7)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                     4        3        2        2        1        1       1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements           -        -        -        -        -        -       -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                   -        1        5        4        4        3       4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     18       21       22       21       24      26       28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements           21       22       32       20       32      24       32
IDA debt service/total debt service                    3        2        5        5        4       6        7
IBRD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. US$)
As % of Debt Outstanding
TERM STRUCTURE                                            at End of June 1982                                                     IBERD    IDA
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (Z)                                               Outstanding & Disbursed                54.9  1,270.0
Maturities due within 5 years                                   16.9                  Undisbursed                              -   1,047.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                  41.6                  Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed         54.9  2,317.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                   1.7
- not available
x                                                                                                                             ASADD
x                                                                                                                             August 31, 1983



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH La
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose            Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 29 credits fully disbursed                       54.90   876.48          -
341       1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)           -      14.00        0.54
487       1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II              -       20.00        2.16
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00         1.70
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -       27.00      10.46
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation               -       22.00        6.05
621       1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -           12.00        2.02
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -       16.00       5.75
632       1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank             -       25.00       3.54
724       1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00        1.84 c
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00       10.88
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00        1.01
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                               -       21.00      13.03
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00      13.74
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II            -        7.00       3.00
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research              -        6.00       0.91
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control           -       19.00       11.84
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00       3.87
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -       25.00      17.64
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -           32.00      26.74
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00       21.44
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00        4.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -      25.00       20.09
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                        -       10.00       7.88
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00      20.74
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  Undisbursed balance cancelled in October (effective September 29).



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million lb
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose            Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00       17.85
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00       23.07
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00       13.80
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00       7.55
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00      33.09
1065Ld     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III          -       35.00      25.39
1091/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development         -       85.00      16.47
1096/d     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport              -       25.00      13.28
1117/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -       50.00      27.64
1124td     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -       16.00      11.12
1140/d     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                    -       18.00       12.75
1147/d     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit               -       40.00      27.24
1184/d     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -          27.00      24.01
11947d     1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                 -      100.00      10.62
12041d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer        -       15.00      13.53
120514     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                -       30.00       27.58
1215/d     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -       27.00      23.23
1247/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                   -       60.00      57.07
1254/d     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power            -       92.00      87.40
12621d     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -       40.00      38.04
1287/d     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -       68.00      63.94
1300/d     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                -      110.00      75.01
13011d     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                -        6.00       5.19
1318/d     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training          -        7.80        7.72
1321/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III            -       35.00      34.35
1349/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                   -       12.00       11.73
Id  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
Ie Not yet effective.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1357/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50       28.00
1384/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II               -      100.00      98.08
1396/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10       8.03
1399/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00      19.44
1402/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      -       23.00      22.64
Total                                                     54.90  2,577.88  1,096.54
of which repaid                                           -        1.63      -
Total now outstanding                                     54.90  2,576.25
Amount sold                                              0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2,576.25
Total undisbursed                                                           1,096.54
/d Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
/e Not yet effective.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                              Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business            Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                 1.20      0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company              -        1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                             1.20      1.41     2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             -        -         -
Total now held by IFC                                               1.20      1.41     2.61
Total undisbursed                                                   0.65      -        0.65
t



-30-
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
2 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and
date of first mission to consider the project:
September, 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 20, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) BLRI and NIFR had been established and the position of
Director, BLRI and Director, NIFR had been filled
(paragraphs 39 and 41);
(b) the National Agricultural Research Plan had been
approved (paragraph 48);



-31-
(c) key consultants needed to produce the master plans
for Livestock and Fisheries had been appointed
(paragraph 48);
(d)  UNDP Project Document had been executed and delivered
(paragraph 55); and
(e) Project Proforma had been approved (paragraph 55).
Other Conditions:
(a) Finalize master plans for Livestock, Fisheries,
and Forestry as conditions of disbursement against
the contract research scheme (paragraph 48).
(






J K, \   '\q   %,E.9-                             90-                                           BANGLADESH                      92
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  11 PROJECT
0t   BARIIBangladesh Agricultural Re earch I nstitute)
A   BRRI Bangladesh Rice Research Institute)
/ r   g                            -         ^   To Gou s i]' ~oBJRIBaogladcs, Jute Research Instaute)
{   //   1 \   (Ha,fTughrl                                               g   INAI-nsneute for Nuclear Agriculturel
26' f                                                                                                   Q C) SRI(Sugar Research Isteutet                                              26_
_  ,Tnskuruao       a                                  D                               *   TRI(Tea Research Institutte)
RAitSleR  D  N                                          J          '       r /  +  LIVESTOCK STATIONS
ttFISHERIES STATIONS
iN...oINAPUI                        /<                    Q     t                  lE0 SOIL TESTING STATIONS
.-fio K<c/,whor  t ,                                                                                   FACIL TIES BEING DEVELOPED UNDER  THE PROJECT:
If Rohh-  X                        RA          U                                                   BARI
,  ;v\,F' e g   <3 i    a@;  ct LIVESTOCK  STATIONS
*   FISHERIES STATIONS
I                                X                                    V i 7, 885i  <\ '  o  iP i,  FORESTRY STATIONS
7  FORESTRY SEED ORCHARDS
-25        -  1 -                                  ,-,                                                i                                          re                                   25'-
.bg~~~~~~~~~~i                                         HAJn
RSAJSHAH ;y                                                                                                                          a
>TA           A  I L  uS                          AIJ         t   I        x    o
24-                                               A                                                                                                                                   24'-
COMIL ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ N
-2'                  C           F          23~-
This rep Ira Seen pIreprd by         <~I~~or/I                                                   i 
ThIr World tanhur crat euoluu,vey                                               Cd   i,          ','               C,,'11 Y
readers -nd a e-u--luel y Ira roe )h.  \      H  U        kiUAI       / H  U' n -  '  (
,n-rna use of The World SaS,-'--. i.                                               'POTS    Ol                                      CHITTAGONSG
aod the nma-roaSdnal Fmance   \-T          *I. |"                                                  /        -
Corp-orao  Thn d-enieho          UK                                  4)PA l                S                     4 
used rnd tIe b-undar-e-urown     ,        ;  /           j                            A r
odor mh a p do rot-poly oI,l t  -'          Kl-n..-1                                   <1          2/1W
parl or TIre World B-An and thm                                                                                                                          N                CT
- re r-ar,ooaI Fondue Corpttraria                                                                                                     CHiTTAG -,TRA C I
any judoment onthre soualstararc  -n<E'                                                   <r,,ndaresiesn an ao,?eplan ;i     oj  -s_ f    HiTTAsrG O;
al one rorrIreoryor en            ;*
ROADS
RAILWAYS
sAIl(;D.slHsr   n                 -                            -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
A                                                    = DIVISION BOUNDARIES
I N  D I A       __             - w >                                      -    -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 t'  
'~:                             -2           1-  25  50  75 MILES
21'  _______________________________                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21'-
'  -, :.: .O0                                                  50                 100 KILOMETERS
- SRI LANKA
11__________________________________________ _                                go-.90-                                 91'                                   92'              'm J



