Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4520-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
February 10, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$                = Taka 25.0
Taka 1            = US$ 0.040
Taka 1 million    = US$ 40,000
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman   -  Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in June)
and harvested in November or December.
Aus    -  Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during July and
August.
Boro   -  Paddy planted in November-December and harvested during April
to June.
Rabi   -  Dry season
Paddy  -  Unhusked rice.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP     -   Annual Development Program
BARC    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU     -   Bangladesh Agricultural University
BCSIR   -   Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
BFRI    -   Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
BJRI    -   Bangladesh Jute Research Instituite
BRRI    -   Bangladesh Rice Research Instittte
CERDI   -   Central Extension Resources Development Institute
FEC     -   Foreign Exchange Component
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
IADS    -   International Agricultural Development Service
IRRI    -   International Rice Research Institute
MTFPP   -   Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NIFR    -   National Institute of Fisheries Research
PP      -   Project Proforma
PSO     -   Principal Scientific Officer
SFYP    -   Second Five-Year Plan
SMO     -   Subject Matter Officer
SMS     -   Subject Matter Specialist
SO      -   Scientific Officer
SSO     -   Senior Scientific Officer
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION                      ...............   1
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND RESEARCH....                                         I
A. The Agricultural Setting                  . . .
Crop Production.                    .      ........ .....           3
Livestock...                                                        4
Fisheries                         ...  4
Forestry...                                                         5
Agricultural Production Targets. .                                  5
B.  Agricultural Research in Bangladesh    .           .............       7
The Research System. . .                                            7
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute..                        8
Bangladesh Rice Research  nstitute .            .                   8
Bangladesh Jute Research Institute            ...                   8
Livestock Research             .      .........        ...... .  ,   8
Fisheries Research...                                               9
Forestry Research .         ................ ..                     9
Institute of Nuclear Agriculture   . ...............    10
Other Research Institutes. . .                                     10
Research Coordination and the Role of BARC            .     .      10
The Contract Research Grant Program            . . .12
C.  Research Achievements and Constraints             . . .13
Research Achievements               . . .13
Problems and Constraints              . . .14
D. IDA Operations in Agriculture               . . .15
III.  THE PROJECT .............................................                  17
A.  Project Genesis                .       .        ................    17
B.  Project Objectives .          ..................                      18
C.  Project Components               .       .       ...............    18
D.  Detailed Features          a      t      u     r      es.. . ..........  19
Strengthening BARC ... . ..........    19
Contract Research Scheme            ...                            20
BARI Field Stations and Research Program.                          21
Livestock Research.. ..   22
Livestock Survey                 ....22
Fisheries Research...                                              23
Forestry Research...                                               23
Staff Development and Training    ...24
Technical Assistance...                                            26
E. Project Costs                     ....27
F. Project Financing. . .                                                 29
G. Procurement                       ....30
Civil Works and Farm Development    .. .30
Vehicles. ..                                                       30
Goods...                                                           30



-ii-
Contract Research Grants ........I .....................       30
Contract Review . ......................................    31
H. Disbursement    ..31
I. Accounts and Audit  ..32
IV.  RESEARCH PLANNING AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   .          .32
A.  Research Planning and Coordinatio .32
National Agricultural Research Plan ..................    32
Research Coordination .33
B. Project Implementation .34
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council .35
Contract Research Scheme .35
Staff Development and Training .36
Technical Assistance .36
Bangladesh Agricultural Research. Institute .36
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute .36
National Institute for Fisheries Research .37
Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute .37
C. Monitoring and Evaluation .37
Implementation Schedule .39
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS    .               .39
Risks  ..41
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS .42
ANNEX 1
Chart 1. Institutions Conducting Agricultural Research in
Bangladesh .........................................    44
Chart 2.  Ministry of Agriculture, Organization Chart.                    45
Chart 3.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute,
Organization Chart ........................... . .....    46
Chart 4.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council,
Organization Chart        h       a        rt.......   47
Chart 5.  Organization Chart of the Bangladesh
Livestock Research Institute (BLRI) .48
Chart 6.  Organizational Chart of the National
Institute for Fisheries Researzh (NIFR) .49
Chart 7.  Organizational Chart of the Forest Research
Institute.......                                             50
Chart 8. Implementation Schedule              ..51



-i ii-
ANNEX 2
Table 1.  Project Cost Summary             .............. .    52
Table 2.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council,
Detailed Cost Table ....     .......               .         53
Table 3.  Contract Research, Detailed Cost Table . ..............    55
Table 4.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute,
Detailed Cost Table ................................         56
Table 5.  Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute,
Detailed Cost Table ..       ......  ......... .             60
Table 6.  National Institute for Fisheries Research,
Detailed Cost Table .. . .    62
Table 7.  Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute,
Detailed Cost Table               ........    65
Table 8.  Staff Development and Training,
Detailed Cost Table          .    ......      ......... .    69
Table 9.  Technical Assistance, Detailed Cost Table ............          71
Table 10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement              . . .           72
ANNEX 3   Documents and Data in the Project File .................    73
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 17139






BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested assistance from
the International Developnent Association (IDA) to finance a second Agricul-
tural Research Project. The project would be an important component in a
series of mutually reinforcing projects designed to produce a national coor-
dinated systen of research, extension and training. The policy framework of
the proposed project derives from the Land and Water Resources Sector Study
(IBRD Report PS-13) completed in December 1972 by the Bank, which recommended
strengthening agricultural research and establishing linkages between the
research institutes. In 1973 GOB established the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research CouncilJ (BARC) as the apex organization for planning and coordinat-
ing agricultural research. However, in its early years BARC's authority was
not accepted by the older research institutes. BARC and the research network
have recently been supported in three successive phases by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and IDA. The proposed project
would constitute the fourth phase in the development of an efficient national
research system and is based on experience gained from the first IDA sup-
ported Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) and from the Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 729-BD).
1.02      The project was prepared during 1982 by a team from BARC with
assistance from scientists of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
(BARI). Subsequent re-assessment by GOB of national research priorities
necessitated broadening the project scope to include livestock, fisheries
and forestry. Because of institutional weaknesses within livestock and
fisheries research these components were prepared by staff from the Ministry
of Agriculture in outline only. Livestock and fisheries research could have
been excluded from the proposed project but this would have risked the
development of uncoordinated research outside the control of BARC. To have
delayed the proposed project would have caused a damaging gap in the flow of
funds to all areas of agricultural research. Consequently, final details of
the livestock and fisheries components would be produced by consultants
during the first six months of implementation.
1.03      The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. J. A. Hayward, 0. Baykal,
J. Hall and Ms. T. Estoque (IDA) and Mr. J. C. Madamba (Consultant).
Appraisal was completed in March 1983 and Negotiations were held in
Washington in December 1983.
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND RESEARCH
A. The Agricultural Setting
2.01      Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for
57% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 80% of the country's exports.
Yet, as agriculture dominates the economy so population pressure dominates
the country's problems. More than 95 million people live in the delta of



-2-
three of the world's largest rivers, on an area of 14.3 million ha, a third
of which is flooded every year. About 9 million ha are cultivated with a
cropping intensity of about 150% per year, which means that over 10 people
must live from the produce of every cultivated hectare. Fragmentation of
land holdings has resulted in almost half of the farms being less than 1 ha,
mostly divided into several scattered plots. Agriculture is therefore
predominantly subsistence oriented. The population continues to grow at
almost 3% per annum, and the intense pressure on the limited land resources
continues to increase.
2.02      Bangladesh suffers from a chronic shortage of food both for humans
and livestock. Annual food production varies greatly, determined almost
exclusively by the vagaries of the weather, particularly the onset and ter-
mination of monsoon rains and the intensity of the dry season. Intensive
efforts are being made to control the water supply by drainage, flood control
and the provision of irrigation, but still over 75% of arable land is rainfed
and two thirds remain unprotected from flooding. Although growth in
foodgrain production has accelerated in recent years, it still falls well
below demand and Bangladesh relies heavily on annual food imports which in
poor crop years have exceeded 2 million tons. A major GOB target of the
Second Five Year Plan (SFYP) was to make Bangladesh self sufficient in food
by 1985. To achieve this would require an annual increase in production of
7%, a level which is now considered unattainable. This realization of the
continuous shortfall in production has general:ed a new sense of urgency in
the agricultural sector and moves are being made to introduce reforms over a
broad front of extension, research and training.
2.03      The relatively poor performance of the agricultural sector in
Bangladesh masks the fact that the country is endowed with substantial
agricultural resources. The soils are productive and have sustained con-
tinuous cropping at traditional yield levels for centuries with very little
fertilization. Temperatures are suitable for year-round crop production and
two or more crops a year can be grown if proper technology is applied. The
agricultural resource base is made up of a wicle range of crops, which con-
tribute about 77% of agricultural value added, livestock which adds 7%,
fisheries which adds 5% and forestry which adds 3%. These resources are
intimately interwoven at the farm level into a system which is finely tuned
to the physical and socio-economic resources of the country. A major impedi-
ment to efficient GOB planning in the past has been the bureaucratic isola-
tion of each component of the system under separate agencies. This has been
particularly apparent in research where not only major conponents such as
livestock and fisheries have been divorced from the mainstream of agricul-
tural research but even individual crops, such as jute and rice have been
treated in isolation.
2.04       The dominant influence on agricultural practices in Bangladesh is
risk aversion. Traditional farming methods have evolved over time, with
hunger the penalty for crop failure. Subsistence farmers are knowledgeable,



-3-
hard working and receptive to proven innovations which do not increase their
risks. They will, however, reject technology of high potential if it is
associated with increased risk. Farmers avoid risk because they lack resour-
ces: money for inputs, stored food to see them through lean periods, and
energy for farm work within the draft animal and human populations. Farmers
depend on a number of GOB agencies for credit, essential inputs, technical
advice and price incentives. Often poor coordination between GOB agencies
responsible for providing complementary services slows the spread of new
technology. In many cases, however, the technological packages themselves
are not geared to farmers' attitudes and resource constraints. These
problems have in the past led to disappointing agricultural performance,
conflict amongst Government agencies and disillusionment of farmers.
Recently, however, GOB prompted by IDA and other donors, has adopted a more
pragmatic policy which will place greater reliance on the private sector for
providing commercial services to farmers. Nevertheless, the new technology
to drive agricultural development is the sole responsibility of government
and of research institutes. GOB is now applying strong pressure on these
institutes to produce technological improvements appropriate to the farming
systems of Bangladesh.
2.05      Crop Production.  The pattern of crop production is dominated by
foodgrains of which rice is by far the most important, accounting for over
80% of the cultivated area. Virtually all farming activities are geared to
the three seasonal rice crops; the aman or monsoon crop, the boro or dry
season crop and the aus or spring inter-seasonal crop. During the 1960s rice
production increases outstripped population growth but during the early 1970s
production stagnated and was overtaken by population growth. Since the mid
1970s, however, foodgrain production has grown strongly at about 4.9% per
annum, largely as a result of increasing cropping intensity with irrigation
and with the introduction of high yielding varieties (HYVs). Despite this
improvement foodgrain production still falls below demand. Jute is the
principal export and occupies about 6% of arable land. Jute production
fluctuates widely in response to world jute prices; average yields are low
and depend upon the onset of the rains and the ability of the farmer to carry
out timely land preparation and sowing. A range of other crops such as
wheat, pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, sugarcane and vegetables are grown on the
balance of the land. The introduction of HYVs, chemical fertilizers and
irrigation, the provision of rural development infrastructure and the
increasing population pressure have brought about considerable changes in
cropping patterns and practices in recent years. For exanple, boro paddy
has greatly increased in acreage with irrigation, transplanted aman has
replaced broadcast aman in drained areas, and wheat and cash crops have
tended to replace dry season pulses and oilseeds. Wheat acreage has expanded
from about 40,000 ha in the mid 1960s to well over half a million hectares at
present and wheat production has increased seven-fold fron the 1975 levels to
over 1.1 million tons. Contrasting with the growth in foodgrains the produc-
tion of important grain legumes and oilseeds has declined. This has resulted
in a steady deterioration in the diet of the Bangladesh people and an



-4-
increase in imports of oil and oilseeds. The yields of legumes and oilseeds
remain amongst the lowest in the world.
2.06      Livestock.  As the major source of draft power for land cultivation
and transport, cattle, and to a lesser extent buffalo, are crucially impor-
tant to the farm economy. Cattle are the most important farm animals; num-
bering approximately 20 million, about 2.5 head are kept per hectare of
cultivable land. Cattle density increases on smaller farns; more than 4.5
head are kept per hectare on holdings up to one hectare. In addition to
cattle, the livestock population consists of about 8 million water buffalo,
12 million sheep and goats, and up to 90 million poultry. About 90% of rural
families are involved in backyard livestock production, and goats, sheep and
poultry scavenge on crop residues and househo:Ld waste. There is practically
no specialized commercial livestock production in the country. No land is
devoted to stock feed production and cattle subsist on less than 3 kg per
head per day of rice straw supplemented by meagre roadside grazing plus 30-40
g per day of bran and oil cake. Scarce feed supply is the key constraint in
cattle development; a simple straw diet is acceptable for draft bullocks but
has a disastrous effect on the growth of young stock and on the fertility
levels and milk yields of cows. Recent surveys indicate that between 50%
and 85% of all draft cattle on farms under one hectare are cows. Because of
poor nutrition, particularly at the end of the dry season, draft animals are
ill-prepared for the heavy work of land preparation. This results in late
and inefficient crop cultivation which adversely affects crop yields.
Briefly stated, the country has too many livestock for the feed supply, pest
and disease problems are serious, livestock services are inadequate and
consequently livestock performance is extremely poor.
2.07      Fisheries.  Being a deltaic country laced with rivers, estuaries,
ponds and lakes, Bangladesh is ideally suited for inland fisheries. Peren-
nial inland water area is estimated at 1.6 million ha, whilst about 3 million
ha of land are inundated with retained monsoon water for almost 6 months each
year, enough time to raise one crop of fish. Traditionally capture fishing
from wild stock is an integral part of life in Bangladesh and fish provide
over 80% of the animal protein in the human diet. Over 5 million
Bangladeshis derive their livelihood directly or indirectly from inland
fishing. At the present time 97 per cent of total fish production comes from
capture fisheries; only 3 per cent is contributed by aquaculture. Rapid
population growth, injudicious fishing practices and lack of investment in
fisheries development have, however, resulted in fish supplies falling far
below demand. Consequently fish prices have risen sharply and this once
ubiquitous food is beyond the reach of many. The average per capita consump-
tion of fish and consequently of animal protein in Bangladesh is now amongst
the lowest in the world. The country's coastl:ine has about one million
hectares of territorial waters but the commerciial exploitation of sea fish is
a relatively new venture with much of the physical facilities and expertise
yet to be developed. Shrimp cultivation in brackishwater impoundments is a



-5-
rapidly expanding industry. Shrimp exports now account for 90% of the for-
eign exchange earnings in the fishery sector and GOB is placing priority
emphasis on this important resource. Currently shrimp yields are low (75-100
kg per ha) and could readily be increased five-fold by sinple improvements in
farming methods. Similar increases in fish production could be expected from
improvements in capture and aquaculture technology. Aquaculture is expected
to play a major role in increasing fish production from 0.64 million tons
annually to at least four times that figure, and GOB's plans emphasise the
exploitation of this methodology.
2.08      Forestry.  About 2.5 million ha of natural forests survive in two
main areas of Bangladesh; the hill forests of Chittagong in the south east,
and the tidal forests of the Sundarbans in the south west. Only about half
of this area is in any way managed and production is far below potential
particularly in the hill tracts. Plantation management is neither closely
related to the rate of deforestation nor geared to the long-term needs of the
country. Practically all fuelwood and 80% of industrial wood used in the
country comes from privately-owned woodlots and homesteads. These private
sources have been over-exploited as a result of increasing population demands
and wood is becoming a scarce and expensive commodity. Illegal felling in
forest areas is commonplace and the fuelwood resources of the country are
dwindling. Crop residues and animal dung are used as substitute fuels
instead of being returned to the land and the long-term inplications of
fuelwood shortage on soil fertility and crop yields are extremely serious.
2.09      Agricultural Production Targets.  The SFYP, and the Medium Term
Food Production Plan (MTFPP) developed with IDA's assistance, 1/ give top
priority to agricultural production, particularly to achieving foodgrain self
sufficiency by 1985. GOB's strategy for achieving high production depends
largely upon greatly increased input levels. This is illustrated by 85% of
physical investment in the SFYP being devoted to water control and irriga-
tion. The targets set for the agricultural sector in the SFYP are acknowl-
edged by GOB to be ambitious but must be achieved if the country is to estab-
lish a sound base for development in the late 1980s. Selected SFYP produc-
tion and input targets which illustrate the magnitude of the task set by GOB
are as follows:
1/ Bangladesh-Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan, February 1981.



-6-
Second Five Year Plan Production and Input Targets
Production in              Pre-SFYP            Targets             %
Millions of Tons           Baseline            for 1985             Increase
Crops
Rice                       12.76               17.78                 39
Wheat                       0.74                2.25                204
Pulses                      0.24                0.47                 96
Oilseeds                    0.26                0.60                131
Fruits                      1.37                1.85                 35
Vegetables                  0.75                1.50                100
Jute fibre                  0.97                1.18                 21
Livestock
Milk                        1.54                1.66                  8
Meat                        0.32                0.39                 22
Fisheries
Inland fish                 0.53                1.11                109
Marine fish                 0.12                0.22                 83
Forestry
Timber                      0.70                0.90                 29
Fuelwood                    0.96                1.21                 26
Bamboo                      0.80                1.00                 25
Inputs
Fertilizer (000 tons)         1,000               1,900                90
Vaccines (million doses)         32                 550             1,620
Mechanised boats (units)    1,400                 4,000               185
Fish Fingerlings(millions)    290                 1,780               513
Forest Plantations(000 ha)       12                  48               300
Irrigation Coverage(000 ha) 1,255                 2,914               132
Although the anticipated increases in input levels by 1985 are impressive,
it should not be assumed that these alone will bring about the anticipated
increases in agricultural production. All consistent agricultural improve-
ment stems from large-scale adoption of improved technology. Improvement in
technology is spearheaded by research and testing at international, national
and local levels. Research has produced items of new technology appropriate
to the needs of Bangladesh but many fundamental gaps in agricultural



-7-
knowledge still exist. Little advice based on sound research can be offered
to farmers on efficient cropping systems, on integrating livestock, fisheries
and forestry to best advantage in whole-farm enterprises, on risk aversion
practices, on optimizing the use of scarce resources, or even on such basic
factors as how best to adjust seed and fertilizer rates for different topog-
raphy and water regimes. GOB is banking on increased inputs to produce more
food but it is the efficiency of utilization of those inputs which will bring
sustained agricultural improvement. Research has yet to tackle such vital
problems. Of equal concern to GOB planners must be that the changes in
agricultural practices anticipated in the SFYP will themselves bring more
problems. For example, continuous cropping, made possible by irrigation,
will remove the pest and disease control mechanism afforded by the dry
season. Similarly, withdrawal of greater production from the land is likely
to produce nutrient imbalance, a situation already evidenced by zinc and
sulphur deficiencies in Bangladesh paddy fields. And outwjeighing all such
problems is the ever-increasing population pressure which demands ever more
from the land. These enormous problems can only be tackled by a sound
Bangladesh agricultural research system, working to precisely defined tar-
gets, and provided with the motivation and facilities to produce the urgently
needed technological answers.
B. Agricultural Research in Bangladesh
2.10      The Research System.  Bangladesh has an extensive agricultural
research system which started with the establishment of a nucleus agricul-
tural research laboratory in 1909. However, the research system received
severe setbacks through appropriation of research farm lands for Government
buildings in 1962, and from losses of equipment and staff during the war of
independence in 1971. Efforts to rehabilitate research began in 1973, and
many research institutions emerged to serve commodities or specializations of
the agricultural sector (Annex 1, Chart 2). Separate research organizations,
universities and institutes, with individual authorities, have continued to
function independently with no well-defined responsibility towards an
integrated national research system. Only with the creation and strengthen-
ing of BARC in recent years has there been any move to coordinate research.
2.11      The main agricultural research network comprises the following:
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI)
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI)
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI)
National Institute of Fisheries Research (NIFR)
Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute (BFRI)
Institute of Nuclear Agriculture (INA)
Sugarcane Research and Training Institute (SRTI)
Bangladesh Tea Research Institute (BTRI)
Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU)



-8-
2.12      Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute.  BARI became an
autonomous institute in 1976, with its own Board of Governors headed by the
Minister of Agriculture. BARI is responsible for research on crops other
than those covered by the specialized institutes. A Director is assisted by
three Associate Directors, who administer approximately 200 scientific staff
in nine research divisions (Annex 1, Chart 3). In addition to the Central
Station at Joydebpur, BARI has 22 Regional St:ations and sub-stations which
range in size from 8 to 200 ha (Map IBRD 17139). These stations are staffed
by over 100 scientists and are situated in different agro-ecological zones.
When fully operational this station network will enable location-oriented
research and experimental verification to be undertaken on a regional basis.
BARI has received support from IDA as part of the Extension and Research
Projects (Cr. 729-BD and 1215-BD) and Agricultural Research I Project
(Cr.828-BD). Further support has been provided by other external donors,
including USAID, who are providing technical assistance to BARI regional
research stations (para 2.20).
2.13      Bangladesh Rice Research Institute.  BRRI was established in 1973
at Joydebpur, 19 km north of Dhaka, to accelerate the pace of development of
this major crop. It was the first autonomous research institute in
Bangladesh. BRRI, with a Board of Governors headed by the Minister of
Agriculture, now has a total scientific staff of 240 scientists and a network
of 5 regional research stations. Because of early and continuing technical
support from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), and funding
from external agencies, especially for training personnel and developing the
Joydebpur site, BRRI is a fully operative and viable research institution.
2.14      Bangladesh Jute Research Institute.  BJRI was established in 1951
and operated for more than 20 years under the Ministry of Agriculture. In
1973 it was given semi-autonomous status within the newly-created Ministry
of Jute and attracted funding from donors and the jute industry. BJRI has
in the last few years moved from the Ministry of Jute to the Bangladesh
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (BCSIR) and recently back to
the Ministry of Agriculture. Jute is grown in farming systems which include
other crops as well as livestock, and BJRI should therefore maintain its
present place in the agricultural research network. Over 500 technical staff
are organized in three Directorates of BJRI, dealing with research, seed
production, and technology. Research mostly concentrates on varietal
improvement and seed production.
2.15      Livestock Research.  Research on livestock in Bangladesh is spread
amongst many organizations. Although their primary function is teaching,
staff of 11 Departments of Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) are
engaged in animal health and breeding research. A small number of research
staff of the Department of Livestock Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
are engaged in minor studies at the Animal Husbandry Institute in Comilla and
others have recently been transferred from the Ministry's Livestock Research



-9-
Institute at Mohakhali (Dhaka) to the 530 ha Livestock Farm at Savar, 30 km
north of Dhaka, where bull production, artificial insemination work, vaccine
production and dairy studies have been undertaken for several years. A small
research unit at Baghabarighat undertakes veterinary research projects under
the Ministry of Local Government. A countrywide total of 149 scientists are
involved in livestock research; 113 hold at least an M,Sc. degree and 36 are
qualified veterinarians. About half of the 320 studies carried out in the
last 20 years have been in the field of veterinary medicine; the others
covered mostly academic aspects of animal production. In preparation for the
Second Agricultural Research Project the Bangladesh Livestock Research
Institute has been established as an autonomous organization with head-
quarters at the Savar Livestock Farm. To date livestock research has been
fragmented, based on little knowledge of farming systems, mostly unrelated to
local animal production and efficiency problems, and of little consequence to
farmers. The new BLRI should greatly improve on this situation.
2.16      Fisheries Research.  In Bangladesh, Fisheries research is still in
its early stages. Over 100 scientists conducting fish research are spread
amongst departments of BAU, the universities at Dhaka, Chittagong and Raj-
shahi, the BCSIR, and the Directorate of Fisheries within the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Freshwater Fisheries Research Station at Chandpur began
operating in 1964; the Aquaculture Experimental Station at Mymensingh started
experimental work only in 1982. University research deals mainly with
aquaculture, limnology, parasitology, crustacean studies and marine biology;
the BCSIR covers research on fish processing technology. Various donors have
promoted research components as part of fish production projects. However,
most research has been of an ad hoc nature, generally unrelated to practical
on-farm problems and few recommendations for increasing fish production or
productivity have emerged. In 1982, the First National Seminar on Fisheries
recommended the establishment of an institute of fisheries research to coor-
dinate research activities as a matter of urgency. In preparation for the
Second Agricultural Research Project GOB has established an autonomous
National Institute of Fisheries Research (NIFR) with headquarters at Chand-
pur.
2.17      Forestry Research.  The Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute
(BFRI) Chittagong was initially concerned with forest products rather than
forest management. In 1972 the institute took over responsibility for all
forestry research and now has a staff of 85 professional scientists and over
500 administrative and support staff working in the 28 ha site at Chittagong.
Few of the scientists have technical forestry training and were recruited
from general science courses. The institute is headed by a full-time Direc-
tor who reports through the Chief Conservator of Forests to the Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. The institute's field program is car-
ried out at 17 stations; 7 silviculture stations, 9 seed orchard centers and
1 mangrove research station (Map IBRD 17139). At present these field sta-
tions have few laboratory, office or domestic facilities and virtually no
transport. Much of the institute's equipment and transport is extremely old.



-10-
BFRI's research program has improved recently and is beginning to address
national problems. Nevertheless, the 104 ongoing projects lack any
integrated approach and have been formulated to fit the administrative struc-
ture of the Institute rather than being problem-oriented. Several projects
employ inferior techniques due to research staff being isolated from
up-to-date technical literature.
2.18      Institute of Nuclear Agriculture (INA).  The application to
agriculture of radio-isotope and ionizing rad[iation technology began in
Bangladesh in 1961 at the Atomic Energy Agricultural Research Center. INA
was established in 1972 and now occupies a site of about 15 ha on the BAU
campus at Mymensingh. Sixty one scientists work at INA, largely isolated
from the mainstream of national research. Their research program tends to
duplicate that of other institutes and the facilities available are inade-
quate and inappropriate for work with radio-active technology. The institute
is searching for an identity and has proposed that specific research respon-
sibilities be assigned to an autonomous INA authority. To achieve coordina-
tion of effort between INA and other agricultural research institutes GOB has
transferred INA to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests and the former
Director is now located within the BARC complex.
2.19      Other Research Institutes.  Specialized research is undertaken by
the Sugarcane Research and Training Institute within the Ministry of
Industries and the Tea Research Institute within the Ministry of Commerce.
The Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) at Mymensingh was until recently
a part of the Ministry of Education but has been transferred to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests to reflect its important influence on the sector.
BAU is principally a teaching organization which was established in 1961 at
Mymensingh, with a field station of about 250 ha attached to the campus. The
University is organized into six faculties: Agriculture, Agricultural
Engineering, Agricultural Economics, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science and
Fisheries. A staff of more than 300 are responsible for about 2000 under-
graduate students and over 300 postgraduate research projects leading to M.Sc
and PhD degrees of the University. Much of the research is of an academic
nature and is not linked to work being carried out at other institutes.
2.20      Research Coordination and the Role of BARC.  The fragmentation of
research throughout 9 Ministries and 20 institutions (Annex 1, Chart 2) is in
complete contrast to the needs of the farming community which urgently
requires integrated packages of technology carefully geared to local farming
systems. Each research institute, frequently aided by donor agencies, has
adopted a policy of building independent facilities, staff and research
programs. This has led to duplication of facilities and research effort and
inappropriate technology being offered to farmers. In an effort to coor-
dinate a national research program and in response to recommendations of two
international research teams, GOB established BARC in 1973, with respon-
sibility for drawing up research priorities, advising GOB on the allocation
of scarce resources, coordinating the research efforts of the various



-11-
institutes, evaluating research programs and facilities, and preparing man-
power development programs and national research plans. Unfortunately, in
its early years the authority of BARC was neither clearly defined nor
accepted by the research institutes. As a consequence the BARC ordinance was
amended in 1976 to incorporate recommendations of several donor agency
studies. The amendment furnished the critical authority and management
structure necessary for BARC to be effective. However, the full acceptance
of the role and authority of BARC by GOB, donors and research institutions
will only be achieved over time. BARC is an autonomous agency of the Minis-
try of Agriculture and Forests and its Board is headed by the Minister for
Agriculture. Board Members are selected from the civil service, Directors of
Research Institutes, University Vice Chancellors and senior scientists.
Decision making authority is delegated to a small Executive Committee headed
by a full-time Executive Vice-Chairman supported by BARC's Member-Directors
and Secretary, the Director of BARI, and the Coordinator of BAU's Committee
for Advanced Studies and Research. Until recently the Executive Vice Chair-
man of BARC held the position of Director of BARI, an arrangement which
proved valuable in fostering close liaison between the two organizations.
BARC technical committees have been established for field crops, industrial
crops, horticultural crops, soils and irrigation, agronomy, forestry, live-
stock, fisheries, agricultural engineering, nutrition and home sciences, and
agricultural economics and social science. A Finance Comnittee prepares the
annual budget and examines financial proposals for research. The nucleus
of Member Directors and Directors at BARC (Annex 1, Chart 4) are responsible
for evaluating research proposals and for coordinating and monitoring con-
tract research (para 2.22). In recognition of BARC's growing role in
research coordination GOB issued a formal notice in 1979 that the views and
recommendations of the Council should be obtained before plans for any exter-
nally funded agro-oriented research project could be finalized. Donor agen-
cies are increasingly recognizing the apex role of BARC and its coordination
function and are channelling support to the research institutes through the
Council. To support BARC's central role in research, USAID has attached a
19-man multidisciplinary expatriate team to BARC. Each specialist is respon-
sible to a designated Member-Director who coordinates the specialist's
program. In addition 4 expatriate specialists responsible to BARC have been
posted, one to each BARI Regional Station, to assist staff with cropping
systems research.
2.21     Linkages between Research and Extension.  The extension system in
Bangladesh is based principally on the Training and Visit System, with some
modifications which cater for the needs of "model" farmers of the Bangladesh
Rural Development Board. Linkages between the Department of Agricultural
Extension and Research are provided by the Subject Matter Specialist (SMS)
at District level and by the Subject Matter Officer (SMO) at lower Thana
level.  Each SMS receives national level training at research institutes and
attends research seminars and workshops at regional and district levels.
Research messages are passed from the SMS to the SMO, then to the Village
Extension Worker and subsequently to the farmer. A model system for linking



-12-
extension with research was developed in the North-West under the IDA sup-
ported Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD) and is now being extended
to the rest of the country through the Farming Systems Division of BARI,
supported by the Second Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1215-BD). The
model is based on the BARI Regional Research Station which acts as the focal
point of contact between research and extension staff and coordinates a
network of adaptive research trial sites. Direct contact between research
scientist and farmer occurs spasmodically during field tours and field days
organized by District Technical Committees. Efforts are being made to
improve the two-way flow of information between scientist and farmer but
budgetary restrictions frequently constrain research staff travel to farmers'
fields.
2.22     The Contract Rcsearch Grant Program.  Since 1976 BARC has operated
a Contract Research Grant Program to focus research efforts on immediate
practical agricultural problems, and to foster inter-institutional and
inter-disciplinary research endeavors. The Contract Research Program is a
line of credit to fund all investment and operating costs of the sub-project,
excluding scientists' salaries. The scheme gives BARC greater powers of
research review, monitoring and evaluation, and, at a time when other funding
is scarce, a degree of authority over national research. All institutions
involved in agricultural research are eligible for research grants. The
early grant program was funded by GOB and involved 35 sub-projects and 15
different institutes. Further funds were provided by USAID and from IDA's
Agricultural Research and Extension and Research Projects. The current
research grant program consists of 49 sub-projects covering 6 disciplines and
costing about US$1.4 million; 41 of these projects are scheduled to terminate
in 1983 (For details see Project File, Item 11). Of the on-going projects
several involve collaborative efforts of staff from up to 4 institutions and
cut across traditional discipline boundaries. The procedures for administer-
ing the Contract Research Grant Program have developed over the years with
assistance from external technical assistance and contributions from several
donor agencies. Formalized procedures cover all aspects of the program from
advertising the availability of grants, formats for submission of research
proposals, technical criteria and procedures for making awards, financial and
technical reporting, fund release mechanisms and accounts procedures, and
evaluation and publication of results (Details are in the Project File, Item
1). These are to be brought together into a manual of program procedures.
Regular structured evaluation of each sub project by Bangladesh and
expatriate scientists has had a significant impact not only on the quality of
work produced but on the self-evaluation of scientists who are now reviewing
their research more critically. BARC's Contract Research Grant Program,
although still new, is fulfilling its objectives of funding priority research
and bringing about cooperation between institutes and scientists, but in
addition has been found to be an important training and institution building
mechanism.



-13-
C. Research Achievements and Constraints
"9 3      Research Achievements.  The impact of research on agricultural
practices and production in Bangladesh has been mixed. Although research
on crops is in its infancy and physical resources are still being developed
the effects of research programs on the major crops has been dramatic.  In
its first decade BRRI released 15 new high-yielding varieties of rice, of
which BR3 and BR4 are well-established and BRIO and BR1I are rapidly growing
in popularity. During the period the area under modern rice varieties grew
from 270 thousand hectares to over 1.8 million hectares, a growth rate of
over 25% per year. Varieties released by BRRI now cover 20% of the total
rice acreage and contribute about 40% of total rice production. Bangladesh
varieties have performed well in international rice yield trials, and BRRI
varieties are now being grown in India, Nepal, Burma and Vietnam. Research
on wheat in Bangladesh has similarly had a revolutionary effect on farm
production. Being a temperate crop wheat was believed to have only limited
potential in Bangladesh even at the time of the Land and Water Resources
Sector Study (IBRD Report PS-13) in 1972. Wheat is in many ways superior to
rice; it contains 40% more protein, 5 times as much calcium and iron, and far
more Vitamins A and B. Wheat yields more than rice and requires only a third
as much irrigation water in the dry season; it is therefore a cheaper food.
In 1975 BARI established a Wheat Research Project which initially screened
internationally-produced varieties but later, with inputs from other
institutes, developed high yielding, disease resistant varieties adapted to
wide-ranging conditions in Bangladesh. Several such varieties have proved
popular and since 1975 the wheat area has quadrupled to over 600,000 ha and
wheat production has increased by almost 50 percent per year.
2.24      Recent research has also brought a breakthrough in oilseed produc-
tion. Although 300,000 ha of oilseeds are grown each year, yields are low
and the crop is not responsive to fertilizer. BARI's Oilseed Improvement and
Development Program has produced a mustard variety (SS-75) with a yield
potential more than double that of traditional varieties. SS-75 seed sells
for a 70% premium over traditional seed in the market and after only two
years is being grown on almost 20,000 ha. Research has also produced two
varieties of summer pulses (7706 mung bean-green gram, and T9 mashkalai-black
gram) which have been enthusiastically adopted by farmers as new crops for
the monsoon season. These short duration crops (60-days from sowing to
harvest) will provide vital alternatives to the aus paddy crop in the event
of poor early rains.
2.25      Similar breakthroughs in varietal improvement have been made by the
Jute and Sugar Research Institutes. However, plant breeding is not the only
research discipline to have contributed to agricultural improvement.
Agronomic recommendations have been produced for the major crops and several
specific problems of crop protection, water utilization, crop storage and
plant propagation have been solved. By identifying sulfur and zinc deficien-
cies and recommending remedies, research has greatly increased the efficiency



-14-
of fertilizer usage and raised yields of rice and wheat to new levels over
extensive areas. Whilst many examples of crop improvement can be cited,
however, the impact of research on livestock, fisheries and forest production
has been negligible. Despite the time, money and manpower expended on these
essential features of the farming system, they remain at traditional subsis-
tence levels.
2.26      Problems and Constraints.  The inherent weakness in the research
system of Bangladesh is that research is incorrectly focused, fragmented,
mostly crop rather than farming system oriented, and rarely takes account of
the social and economic constraints faced by the end user, the farmer.
Research systems, organizations, programs and trials frequently reflect
individual interests, academic ends and scientific pride. The results are of
little consequence to real farming situations. The main problems and con-
straints preventing further improvement in the quality and output of agricul-
tural research are:
a. Lack of Coordinated Planning and Direction. For a meaningful,
efficient and responsive research system to develop there should
be a continuous dialogue between national planners, research coor-
dinators, scientists and farmers. National agricultural policy
should be translated into coordinated research programs and action
plans. In 1979, in response to a request from IDA, BARC published
a National Agricultural Research Plan which defined broad objec-
tives for research. However, these objectives were not developed
into concrete plans for the institutes or related to the research
resources available which would then have deternined future man-
power training, funding and infrastruacture development needs.
Research institutes and scientists, therefore, continue to work in
isolation, have no clearly defined work plan, lack direction and
are rarely made accountable for their work.
b.  Lack of Operational Funds.  Agricultural reseach is chronically
short of operational funding. Although total funding for research
has expanded at over 20% per annum over the last 5 years, the
increase has been accounted for by increased capital expenditure,
staff salaries and wages and inflationary pressure on recurrent
costs. Fixed commitments must take priority in recurrent budgets
and operational expenditure has become a residual item bearing the
brunt of budgetary cuts. Some institutes use scarce land resources
to generate revenue to pay wages and allowances; this imposes a
need to avoid risks which is an undesirable constraiiit on research
planning. Stop-and-go financing has been damaging to research and
demoralizing for scientists. In 1983 GOB reached an agreement with
USAID to utilize PL480 funds for operational expenses at all
research stations. This arrangement has greatly eased the problem.



-15-
c.  Travel Restrictions.  Budgetary constraints and stringent restric-
tions on the use of vehicles have virtually elininated staff
travel. A1l staff below the level of Institute Director are
prevented from freely travelling to out-station trials or to other
institutes. Consequently scientists are confined to research
stations and are losing touch with farmers' practices and problems.
Supervision of research by Member-Directors of BARC is likewise
curtailed.
d.  Lack of Base-Line Information.  There is a dearth of reliable
information on the agricultural sector, particularly on livestock,
fisheries and forestry. This situation precludes the definition of
priorities for research thus hampering effective program planning.
e.  Quality of Manpower Training.  Many of the research scientists lack
appropriate post-graduate training which adversely affects the
quality of their work. Few scientists critically evaluate their
experiments in the light of farmers' needs and nany follow work
programs based on training outside Bangladesh conditions. Most
institutes lack good library and documentation facilities and
scientists are unable to keep in touch with the latest techniques
and research findings. Research directors, program leaders and
scientists are weak in the vital area of research stimulation,
planning and evaluation.
f.  Maintenance and Repair of Equipment.  A serious constraint on the
work program of institutes and research stations is equipment and
machinery breakdown. Research programs are disrupted for long
periods whilst equipment lies idle for want of ninor repairs.
Frequently equipment must be transported to Dhaka foic repair, often
causing long delays and more damage in transit.
The proposed project would address these problems.
D. IDA Operations in Agriculture
2.27      Since independence in 1971 until December 1982, IDA has supported
agricultural development in Bangladesh with 22 credits for projects in the
agriculture sector. Total lending for agriculture over this period amounted
to about US$450 M, or 20% of total IDA lending to Bangladesh.
2.28      The main thrust of GOB's SFYP, and in particular of the MTFPP, is
strongly endorsed by the Bank. IDA credits for Chandpur II, Barisal, Kar-
nafuli and Muhuri Irrigation Projects (Cr. 340, 542, 605, 725-BD); and Shal-
low Tubewell, NW Tubewell (Cr. 724, 341-BD) and a Low Lift Pump Projects (Cr.
990-BD) are helping to increase irrigated area. Drainage and Flood Control
Projects (Cr. 864-BD and 1184-BD) and a Small Scale Drainage and Flood Con-
trol Project (Cr. 955-BD) will improve water control and reduce farmers'



-16-
risk, thereby increasing incentives to invest in higher input new technology.
Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports I and II (Cr. 944, 1044-BD), Cereal Seeds
Project (Cr. 410-BD), and the Low Lift Pump Project (Cr. 990-BD) will
increase fertilizer, seed, and diesel supply, reduce subsidies, and encourage
private sector participation. The Extension and Research I Project (Cr.
729-BD) helped to increase agricultural productivity in the North-West by
facilitating the transfer of technology from research stations to farmers,
through intensified extension and applied research effort. The ongoing
Extension and Research II Project (Cr. 1215-BD) is further improving agricul-
tural extension by reorganizing extension agencies and by intensifying and
structuring extension effort. The Extension and Research II Project will
also provide specialized training, extension mobility, and research grants
for farming systems research under the BARC Contract Research Grant Program.
IDA is currently assisted GOB with a second Rural Developnent Project and a
second Agricultural Training Project. Recent sector studies in livestock,
fisheries and forestry may lead to requests for assistance in these areas.
The anticipated developments in the agricultural sector and the safeguards
which attend the massive investments being made, depend largely upon the
soundness of the technological packages to be offered to farmers. These
packages, and their future modification to keep pace with changing agricul-
tural practices, depend upon a sound research system. The first Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) began IDA's involvement in research and the
proposed project would continue to support the agricultural research effort,
2.29      The First Agricultural Research Project (Cr, 828-BD) was financed
with a credit of US$6 M in 1978 to enable BARC to fulfill its crucial role in
planning, coordinating and monitoring agricultural research on a national
basis. The project also supported essential development at 3 BARI Regional
Research Stations, Hathazari, Jamalpur and Jessore, which, with Ishurdi, form
the nuclei of the regional research network (Map 17139).  Funds were provided
for contract research on cropping systems, soil and water management,
agricultural engineering and crop protection. A national plan for research
was promoted and BARC was also expected to produce an inventory of relevant
completed and on-going research. The project provided for Ph.D and M,Sc
courses as well as for local training. Technical Assistance was provided to
formulate and implement monitoring and evaluation procedures of the Contract
Research Scheme.
2.30      After a slow start during which BARC and BARI familiarized themsel-
ves with IDA procedures, good progress was made in building the BARC office
complex in Dhaka, in implementing contract research and in initiating the
overseas training program. A National Agricultural Research Plan outlining
research priorities was published in 1979. An eminent research director was
appointed full-time Director of BARC and the Member Director posts were
mostly filled by senior scientists. The role of BARC was gradually recog-
nized by the research institutes. Physical works at BARI stations were
generally satisfactory although socio-political problems prevented a start
being made on the border area site at Ramgargh. External evaluation of the



-17-
contract research sub-projects showed that the scheme was working well. In
mid 1982 national budgetary problems constrained development programs
throughout Bangladesh. The Annual Development Program (ADP) was cut back and
at the point when the BARI Regional Stations were mostly complete and
staffed, operating funds ran out. Scientists were therefore unable to com-
plete experiments, and vehicles and equipment lay idle. The P;ioject Proforma
(PP), GOB's document which is used to create the project budget in the ADP,
for the BARI stations, terminated. Until late 1983 when PL480 funds became
available BARI found funds for minimal operation of the trials program by
using revenue generated from crop sales and from other sources, This led
to uncertainties of funding and unproductive field trials.
2.31      The following important lessons have been learned from the first
project.
a. Mechanisms should be established to ensure a smooth flow of operat-
ing funds to match capital investment;
b. Provision should be made to ensure that GOB takes up project
operating costs into its revenue budget so ensuring that research
programs continue after project completion;
c. Member-Directors at BARC should be afforded the status and
privileges of Institute Directors to allow them freedom of action
to interact with Institutes;
d. Mobility of scientists and contact with farmers should be ensured;
e. Scientists must work against a background of base-line information
and well-defined research plans;
f. Financial procedures and monitoring systems at BARC should be
computerized to provide rapid retrieval for managemeat decisions;
and
g. A familiarization period of 6 months should precede Ph.D work at
overseas universities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis and Design
3.01      An efficient national agricultural research system is not developed
quickly.  It has always been recognized that a series of projects, whether
supported by IDA or other agencies, would be required to assist Bangladesh's
research development efforts. The proposed project would be part of that
effort. The timing of project processing was dictated by the need to main-
tain the momentum established in the first project and to ensure that there



-18-
was no hiatus in the research development process. The project was prepared
principally by BARC staff using their experience gained in the first project,
which concentrated on crops research and regional station development.  The
core of the project therefore aims at the continued development of BARC's
coordination role and on the crops research system. However, largely
reflecting institutional weaknesses and the modest scope of past research
efforts, the preparation of the livestock and fisheries components were in
outline only. The initial investment estimates for livestock and fisheries
would therefore be refined during the early stages of the project. Since
support for these components would be an initial phase of long term develop-
ment there is no risk that unnecessary investment funds have been included.
3.02     The development of any sound research foundation involves long-term
investment in human capital; from initial technical training to the refining
of research administration skills. The process essentially involves the
gradual maturing of research planning skills against a background of increas-
ing technical competence. This development process, which began with the
first Agricultural Research Project, is threatened by the chronic resource
constraints in Bangladesh which result in funds being diverted from research
to short-term projects with more visible impact. To safeguard the invest-
ments made in incremental staff in the first project the proposed project
would continue to fund these positions but on a declining basis to ensure
that staff costs were gradually borne by the normal budgetary procedure. By
the end of the project period all incremental staff would be funded entirely
from the Bangladesh treasury.
B. Project Objectives
3.03      The primary objectives of the Second Agricultural Research Project
would be to continue strengthening the agricultural research system in
Bangladesh, enabling it to respond rapidly and efficiently to the agricul-
tural demands of the country and the farming community; to support GOB's
efforts to develop a strong research coordination, planning and monitoring
organization at BARC; to bring livestock, fisheries and forestry more effec-
tively into the research system, and to strengthen the national research
station network.
C. Project Components
3.04      The principal components of the project would be:
a.  Strengthening BARC by the provision cf additional facilities and
staff and by improving financial management and accounting proce-
dures;



-19-
b.  Providing additional funding for a BARC-administered Contract
Research Scheme accessible to all institutions, to emphasize
priority, inter-disciplinary research of a practical, time-bound
nature;
c.  Provision of essential buildings, equipment, machinery and vehicles
at 4 BARI stations, and a mobile service unit for machinery
repairs;
d.  Provision of facilities for the Bangladesh Livestock Research
Institute at Savar Livestock Farm with its subsidiary station at
Baghabarighat;
e.  Strengthening the  National Institute for Fisheries Research by
providing a brackishwater fisheries researcn centre in Khulna
district and by renovating and developing existing facilities at
Chandpur and Mymensingh;
f.  Strengthening the Forestry Research Institute by providing
facilities for species introduction, tree breeding and testing,
and a biostatistics unit, and by providing essential machinery,
equipment and vehicles and infrastructure to field stations and
upgrading equipment;
g.  Providing Training for higher degrees in Bangladesh and overseas,
in-service training in research planning and evaluation, oppor-
tunities for interchange of staff between research institutes and
extension, and study tours for senior research staff; and
h.  Providing essential Technical Assistance from Bangladesh and inter-
national sources for program development and early implementation
in Livestock and Fisheries, to support the Forestry, and Training
Programs, for Contract Research Evaluation and for data retrieval
and audit.
D. Detailed Features
Strengthening BARC (Annex 2, Table 2)
3.05      The proposed project would continue to develop the physical
facilities of the BARC office complex in Dhaka, which was constructed under
the first Agricultural Research Project. Ample land adjacent to the existing
office block is available for the proposed additions. A documentation center
would be constructed and equipped to expand the services of the existing BARC
library. The documentation center would provide a service to all institute
scientists by circulating the contents of current scientific journals and
responding to requests for reprints. The center would receive a selection of



-20-
international agricultural journals and would have full photocopying
facilities.
3.06      BARC offices are increasingly being used as the focal point of
coordination between the Ministry of Agriculture and research institutes.
A guest house (240 m2) would be constructed to accommodate visiting scien-
tists.  The existing BARC conference room is in constant use; additional
facilities would be provided under tne project.  The BARC auditorium would be
improved by the provision of audio-visual facilities.
3.07      BARC's increased responsibilities for coordinating donor involve-
ment with national research, and particularly for administering the expanding
contract research program are imposing strain on the data retrieval systems
and on accounting procecures. Staff are available but existing procedures
are cumbersome. A contract to develop and implement an appropriate data
retrieval system would be established with a qualified and experienced local
accountancy organization. Similarly a local firm would be engaged to audit
the contract research program. Provision of 6 motorcycles, 2 microbuses and
2 cars would assist BARC staff in moving between organizations and agencies
in Dhaka and in monitoring field research. Four Member Directors, a
Secretary, senior scientists and administrative staff would also be provided
(para 4.05). The base cost of BARC support under the project, excluding
technical assistance and the contract research program (para 3.08) would be
about Tk 27 million (US$1.08 M).
Contract Research Scheme (Annex 2, Table 3)
3.08      The project would continue to develop the successful contract
research scheme established under Credit 828-BD with BARC for sub-projects .Q
be carried out on a contract basis. All research organizations in Bangladesh
would be eligible to submit research proposals for financing under such
grants made by BARC. Research grants would cover all expenditure for the
research sub-project, excluding scientists' salaries, but including capital
and incremental recurrent costs and the costs Of inIcremental support staff
and labour. Procedures for administering the contract research grant scheme
have been established in the first agricultural research project (para 4,.07>,
Sub-projects would be selected according to established criteria whilch give
preference to applied research, of an inter-institutional and inter-
disciplinary nature, directed towards solving Earming problems of nation.ai
priority status. The average cost of a sub-project is likely to be about
$30,000 and it is estimated that about 320 grants would be made over a
five-year period. Research topics would likely cover most aspects of
agriculture but contracts would be established on a priority basis; funds
would not be set aside for specific disciplines. The allocations for sub
projects, which would mostly be completed within a 3-year period, as shown ir
Annex 2, Table 3, are therefore indicative only. The base cost of the con-
tract research program would be Tk 235 million (US$9.42 M) over 5 years,,



-21-
BARI Field Stations and Research Program (Annex 2, Table 4)
3.09      Regionalization of crops research, promoted by GOB and supported
by IDA, would be continued.  The four Regional Research Stations, Hathazari,
Ishurdi, Jamalpur and Jessore, located in four distinct agro-ecological
zones, are representative of the major regional soil types, topography and
climatic conditions. A further 15 sub-stations spread throughout the regions
(Map IBRI) 17139) offer research and testing opportunities on loca-
tion-specific problems. The buildings of the Regional Stations were largely
developed under the first Agricultural Research Project and require only
minor investment to make them fully functional. However, until recently
little attention has been paid to the sub-stations; all are staffed but most
have inadequate facilities.
3.10      Farm development works, including fencing, land levelling, irriga-
tion and drainage, together with renovation of buildings, and provision of
stores and threshing floors, would be undertaken in varying amounts at the
BARI field stations at Akbarpur, Pabna, Pahartali and Shampur. Essential
housing for scientists would be constructed at Akbarpur, Pabna and Shampur.
Specifications and designs for government quarters exist and are satisfactory
to IDA. Local contractor capacity and capability is adequate for all
anticipated station works.
3.11      Much of the field and laboratory equipment at field stations is
old, inappropriate for the work program, or broken down. The project would
provide equipment for 4 stations. A fully-staffed and equipped farm
machinery workshop would be established at BARI headquarters, Joydebpur. An
important feature of the workshop would be its mobile service unit facility
which would travel on a regular schedule to out-stations to undertake
on-the-spot repairs of laboratory and agricultural field equipment.
3.12      Operating Funds for Field Trials.  BARI research workers at field
stations have suffered from chronic uncertainties of funding which hampered
the effectiveness of their trials' program. To overcome the problem of fund
constraints and to ensure a steady flow of operating funds to field trials,
GOB has recently negotiated with USAID for the release of PL480 funds to all
research stations. This arrangement has eased the problem. At negotiations
GOB stated that PL480 funds now provide an adequate and uninterrupted supply
of funds to regional stations and sub-stations and that approved research
trials are no longer constrained by lack of operating funds.
3.13      The total base cost of the BARI component inclu(ting station works
would be about Tk 36 million (US$1.43 M).



-22-
Livestock Research (Annex 2, Table 5)
3.14    A condition of credit effectiveness would be that GOB has established
an autonomous Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI) under the
administrative control of the Livestock and Fisheries Division of the Minis-
try of Agriculture. BLRI has taken over all facilities of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Savar Livestock Farm, including existing buildings, staff and
equipment, but excluding existing facilities used for the Artificial Insemi-
nation Unit (Details in Project File Item 2).  A subsidiary research farm of
BLRI has been established at Baghabarighat by transferring the existing
laboratories, staff and equipment from the Ministry of Local Government to
BLRI. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that a full time
Director had been appointed to BLRI.
3.15    The project would provide consultants to undertake a 6-month mission
to plan the BLRI work program with incremental civil works drawings, equip-
ment and staff requirements. Based on this the project would renovate and
modify buildings and construct additional staff quarters at Savar. Existing
equipment would be repaired or replaced to meet the needs of the identified
work program. A microbus, 3 cars, 2 pickups and 10 motorcycles would provide
additional essential mobility for BLRI staff. Adequate numbers of tech-
nicians are employed by GOB at Savar to support the research program. The
project would provide incremental senior research staff (1 Director, 2 Deputy
Directors, 8 Principal Scientific Officers, 8 Senior Scientific Officers and
12 Scientific Officers) and their support requirements. Costs of acquiring
and maintaining research animals for the research program would be provided
by the project. In addition, BLRI would have access to the contract research
scheme (para 3.08) and an important part of the planning mission's work
program would be to prepare research proposals for BARC funding.
3.16    Livestock Survey.  A national survey to determine livestock feed
resources, present husbandry practices, and the! nature of constraints on
livestock production in Bangladesh would be carried out under the project.
(Details in Project File Item 2). The survey would review previous work,
and would develop, test and use sample questionnaires to assess farming
practices, opportunities and constraints. The findings of the survey would
be used to re-define priority livestock research. The national survey would
take about 2 years to complete and would be contracted out by BLRI to local
agencies with specialist capability; BAU would be satisfactory contractors.
The survey would cost about Tk 5 million (US$205,000).
3.17    The base cost of the livestock component including improvements to
the Savar farm, maintenance costs of research animals, incremental staff
salaries, and vehicles, but excluding technical assistance (para 3.25) would
be about Tk 60 million (US$2.40 M).



-23-
Fisheries Research (Annex 2, Table 6)
3.18    A condition of credit effectiveness would be that GOB has established
an autonomous National Institute for Fisheries Research (NIFR) under the
administrative control of the Livestock and Fisheries Division of the Minis-
try of Agriculture and that a full time Director had been appointed to NIFR.
The NIFR encompasses the 4 existing fisheries research stations at Chandpur,
Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar and Mymensingh and a fifth station for brackishwater
fisheries would be added. The project would provide consultants to undertake
the detailed planning of NIFR (para 3.25). Existing offices and laboratories
at Chandpur would be renovated, existing equipment repaired, and new equip-
ment would be purchased. Three cars, 1 microbus, 2 pickups, 1 motorboat and
2 locally-made fishing boats would be purchased for Chandpur. The project
would establish a Brackishwater Research Station in Khulna District building
on the facilities which exist at the Benarpota crop research station, where
saline conditions now preclude crop growth. Administrative buildings,
houses, laboratories and experimental ponds would be constructed at the
station. GOB gave an assurance that final plans for the Brackishwater
Research Station would be sent to IDA for approval by June 30, 1985.
3.19    The projec-t would provide the incremental senior staff necessary for
the operation of NIFR: a Director, 2 Deputy Directors, 2 Project Directors,
21 Scientists, and technical and administrative support staff. Vehicles
would be provided for senior staff travel and on-station work. Operating
expenditure would be provided for fish hatchery management, vehicle operation
and labor payments. All NIFR stations would submit research proposals for
funding from BARC contract research program. The base cost of the Fisheries
Component excluding technical assistance would be about TK 71 million
(US$2.85 M).
Fo1restr  Resech (Annex 2, Table 7)
3.20    The project would strengthen BFRI at Chittagong by means of a
general support program to replace or rehabilitate existing institute
facilities, by the provision of a biostatistics unit to improve project
design, analysis, rapid data retrieval and report production, and by the
establishment of a seed center at BFRI headquarters to control the procure-
ment, storage and distribution of tree seeds. The proposed units are shown
in the Forestry Research Institute Organization Chart (Annex 1, Chart 7).
Three specific sub-projects would be carried out under the project:
(i) species trials and testing at 4 research stations, to select fast growing
tree species and provenances for different ecological conditions, (ii) tree
breeding and seed orchard development at 5 orchard centers, to up-grade the
breeding program and refine seed collection and processing procedures, and
(iii) a site capacity survey, to establish the methodology and parameters for
site evaluation in plantation work. Staff and labor housing, simple
laboratories and stores would be constructed at field stations. The project



-24-
would establish and maintain tree nurseries and experimental plantations, and
undertake seed collection operations. Survey equipment, laboratory equip-
ment, field tools and cartographic facilities would be provided. A total of
12 pickups, I minibus and 14 motorcycles wou:Ld greatly improve liaison
between stations in the forestry network. Incremental salaries for essential
support staff and labour, and recurrent costs for running the specific
programs would be provided. Funds for enabling the BFRI to publish past
research work, and to enable the institute's library to obtain specific
technology journals would be provided. The base cost of the forestry com-
ponent excluding technical assistance would be Tk 71 million (US$2.96 M).
Staff Development and Training (Annex 2, Table 8)
3.21      The project would continue the proc:ess of manpouer development in
agricultural research with particular focus on the neglected areas of
forestry, fisheries and livestock. The program would emphasize in-country
training using existing facilities; local institutions such as BAU would
thereby be strengthened and thesis work pertinent to Bangladesh conditions
would be fostered. Technical training for research support staff would be an
important part of the program. The proposed component would complement
training programs being administered and coordinated by the Training Cell of
BARC. A Senior Scientific Officer, 2 Training Officers and support staff
would be recruited to the Training Cell to assist in administering the
program. Provision would be made for about 333 man years of post-graduate
fellowships (235 local, 64 in neighbouring Asian countries and 34 in other
countries). Details and areas of study are in the Project File (Item 5).
GOB gave an assurance that the local Ph.D program would include a 2-month
exposure tour in Asia to enable future scientists to establish contacts with
peers and to ensure a measure of international awareness in the research
program.
3.22      Short-term training would be provided in two sub-programs.  The
first would involve about 300 scientists, of program leader calibre, who
would attend a series of one-month courses over a period of 3-years.
Short-term training courses would be conducted at the new Bangladesh College
of Agricultural Science by BARC and BARI staff with project-supported techni-
cal assistance. The courses would emphasise evaluation of research in rela-
tion to farming practices and needs, and the generation of new research from
interaction with extension staff and farmers. The second sub-program would
provide 12 man years of short-term foreign studies to enable between 20 and
30 senior scientists to take special courses not available in Bangladesh.
To emphasise the need to upgrade professional competence in livestock,
fisheries and forestry research the estimated provision for these sectors
would be:



-25-
Livestock       Fisheries       Forestry
---------------man years--------------
Degree fellowships             68              64             24
Short-term training             9               5              7
Career development
-Professional                21               6             26
-Technical                   82              22             97
3.23      Career development would be fostered by the following sub-programs:
a. Sabbatical studies: an in-country exercise whereby BARC would make
grants to enable about 180 professional agriculturists to move for
about one year between research establishments and organizations.
The concept has been pioneered with success by USAID assistance to
BARC and is designed to expose professional staff to different
disciplines e.g between research and extension, or to foster
inter-institutional collaboration e.g. livestock staff working on
BARI out-stations to undertake farming systems research;
b. Tnternational exposure: awards for about 100 scientists and
research administrators of Deputy Director rank and above to attend
international workshops and conferences;
c. Local technical training: a BARC scholarship fund to enable about
300 awards to be made to technical support staff for 2-year diploma
courses. Adequate technical institute facilities exist in
Bangladesh to support the sub-program;
d. Overseas technical training: a BARC scholarship fund for about 50
one-year awards to research technicians for special technical
training at foreign institutions; and
e. Institutional grants: a BARC fund for grants to research institu-
tions to enable them to conduct in-service training courses for
research support staff and technicians. Provision would be made
for about 200 technicians to attend six-month courses.
3.24      In addition the project would provide Tk 2 million (US$.09 M) to
enable BARC to mount conferences, state-of-the-art seminars, workshops and
seminars to evaluate contract research sub projects. This fund would also
allow BARC to make grants to research institutes and universities to hold
regional, local and special workshops for scientists, extension staff and
farmers, e.g at a regional sub-station to demonstrate and discuss trials
programs. The total base cost of the staff development and training com-
ponent would be about Tk 96 million (US$3.84 M).



-26-
Technical Assistance (Annex 2, Table 9)
3.25      Technical assistance would be essential for planning and implement-
ing parts of the proposed project. Unfortunately, many experienced research
scientists are burdened with bureaucracy and could not devote their efforts
exclusively to project needs. However, local expertise would be used
wherever possible. Considerable specialist expertise is available in
Bangladesh, in universities, in retired GOB staff, in the private sector and
in some Government departments. Expatriate assistance has been provided to
BARC by a USAID contract which is likely to continue throughout the project.
This assistance provides specialists in such fields as agronomy, soils and
water studies, economics, farming systems and crops research. The proposed
project would provide a total of 463.5 man months of technical assistance as
follows:
Local               Overseas
Consultants         Consultants
----------mlan-months---------
Livestock
Detailed planning                  6                    6.5
Livestock survey                 150                    -
Research planning                  -                    8
Other specialists                 28                   15
Fisheries
Detailed planning                 11                   10
Research planning                  -                    8
Other specialists                 17                   39
Forestry                             -                   48
Training                             -                   24
BARC
Contract research evaluation    10                      7
Data retrieval specialists        61                    -
Audit of contract research        15                    -
Total                            298                  165.5



-27-
Details of terms of reference for all technical assistance are in the Project
File and would be used by GOB as the basis for employing technical assistance
(para 4.09). The total base cost of the technical assistance program would
be about Tk 53 million (US$2.07 M).
E. Project Costs
3.26      Total project cost over the period July 1984 to December 1989 is
estimated at Tk 804.54 M (US$32.18 M) including duties and taxes estimated
at Tk 67.92 M (US$2.72 M). The foreign exchange component is estimated at
Tk 295.38 M (US$11.82 M) which represents 37% of total project costs.  Base
cost estimates are expressed in December 1983 prices. The project would
require 463.5 man months of consultancy services, of which 298 man months
(64%) would be local consultants. The average man-month cost of local con-
sultants is estimated at about Tk 27,750 (US$1,110), and of expatriate con-
sultants at US$10,500 including salary, allowances and international travel.
Physical contingencies and contingencies included for anticipated price
escalation over the project period amount to 20% of total project costs.
Neither physical nor price contingencies have been added to the BARC contract
research grant fund. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of
base costs for civil works, for detailed preparation of livestock and
fisheries components, maintenance of research animals, plantation estab-
lishment and training; 5% has been estimated for all other costs, except for
vehicles, technical assistance and recurrent costs for which no physical
contingencies have been provided. Price contingencies have been applied at
the following rates:
Inflation Rates %
Year                        Foreign Costs      Local Costs
1983-84                         7.8               10.0
1984-85                         8.2               10.0
1985-86                         6.7               10.0
1986-87                         6.0                9.5
1987-88                         6.0                9.5
1988-89                         6.0                9.0
3.27      Details of cost estimates are in Annex 2, Tables 1-9, and are
summarized below:



-28-
Summary of Project Cost by Component
Local    FEC      Total    Local    FEC       Total   % of
-------(Tk M) --------      -------(US$ M)------    Total
Strengthening  BARC        18.37      8.63   27.00      .74       .34    1.08    3.4
Contract Research         204.84    30.61  235.45    8.19        1.23    9.42   29.3
Strengthening  BARI        25.18    10.68   35.86    1.01         .42    1.43    4.4
Livestock                  45.79    14.15   59.94    1.83         .57    2.40    7.5
Fisheries                  45.36    26.08   71.44    1.81        1.04    2.85    8.9
Forestry                   43.71    27.73   71.44    1.75        1.11    2.86    8.9
Staff Development
and Training             19.06    76.94   96.00       .76      3.08    3.84   11.9
Technical Assistance       17.45    34.27   51.72       .70      1.37    2.07    6.4
Base Cost Estimates       419.76   229.09  648.85   16.79        9.16   25.95   80.6
Physical Contingencies   11.53    13.20   24.73         .46       .53      .99    3.1
Price Contingencies        77.87    53.09  130.96    3.12        2.12    5.24   16.3
Total Project Cost        509.16   295.38  804.54   20.37    11.81   32.18  100.0



-29-
Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure
Local    FEC      Total   Local    FEC       Total    % of
-------(Tk M)---------   -         (US$ M)--------    Total
Contract Research            204.84   30.61   235.45    8.19    1.23         9.42    29.3
Civil Works and
Farm Development            54.70   23.56    78.26    2.19        .94      3.13      9.7
Machinery, Equipment
and Furniture               28.79   36.83    65.62    1.15    1.47         2.62      8.1
Vehicles                       8.23   10.09    18.32        .33     .40       .73      2,3
Staff Development
and Training                16.84   76.31    93.15       .68    3.05       3.73    11.6
Technical Assistance          17.45   34.27    51.72        .69    1.38      2.07      6.4
Research Plantation
Establishment               13.30   12.60    25.90        .53     .50      1.03      3.2
Recurrent Costs               75.61    4.82    80.43    3.03         .19     3.22    10.0
Base Cost Estimates          419.76  229.09   648.85   16.79    9.16    25.95    80.6
Physical Contingencies        11.53   13.20    24.73        .46     .53       .99      3.1
Price Contingencies           77.87   53.09   130.96    3.12    2.12         5.24    16.3
Total Project Cost           509.16  295.38   804.54   20.37   11.81    32.18   100.0
F. Project Financing
3.28      The proposed IDA credit is US$24.5 M.  UNDP intends to finance 100%
of expatriate and about 44% of local technical assistance with TJS82.1 M
grant funds. Execution and delivery of the UNDP co-financing document would
be a condition of credit effectiveness. The IDA credit and UNDP grant
together would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$11.82 M) and 90% of
total project costs net of taxes and duties. GOB contribution to the project
would therefore be about US$5.6 M including Tk 67.9 M (US$2.7 M) of taxes
and duties. GOB would therefore contribute 17% of total project costs.



-30-
3.29      The total annual project costs, including taxes and duties, must be
shown in GOB's Annual Development Plan (ADP) to enable full project expendi-
ture to be authorized. For inclusion of project costs in the ADP, a Project
Proforma (PP) must be approved by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council. Draft PP were agreed at negotiations and it would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that the PP, reflecting the negotiated and
approved project, had been approved and that a copy had been received by IDA.
Recent improvements in Treasury fund release mechanisms for projects desig-
nated as Core Projects in the ADP have greatly benefitted project implementa-
tion. At negotiations GOB furnished a letter of intent showing that the
project would be included in the Core Program.
G. Procurement
3.30      Civil Works and Farm Development.  Project civil works and farm
development (about US$4.32 M) would consist mainly of construction of houses,
some office and laboratory buildings, workshops and storage sheds, renovation
of existing buildings, station roads and fencing, provision of water sup-
plies, minor drainage works and land levelling. Work would be scattered at
about 22 sites throughout the country and over the project period. As
designs would be simple and construction techniques labor intensive, such
contracts would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
would be let through local competitive bidding using established GOB proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA. Suitable local construction firms exist in suffi-
cient numbers to ensure adequate competition.
3.31      Vehicles.  The total vehicle package would be relatively small
(about US$0.86 Nt). This would consist of about 42 motorcycles, 32 bicycles,
19 pickups, 11 minibuses, 10 cars, 4 microbuses, 2 local fishing boats, a
mobile workshop van, a motor boat and a truck. Since most project vehicles
would be required immediately upon launching of the project, and because of
the need for after sales service, they would be procured by competitive
bidding advertised locally from suppliers of foreign made vehicles who have a
service network in Bangladesh and are from IDA member countries.
3.32       Goods.  Machinery and farm equipment (about US$3.51 M) would be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Miscellaneous items of
equipment and spares grouped in packages less than US$50,000, and totalling
approximately US$0.5 million would be procured under local competitive bid-
ding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
3.33      Contract Research Grants.  Contract research grants (about US$9.42
M) would be made to research institutions using criteria established in the
first Agricultural Research Project and which have been agreed with IDA
(Details in Project File Item 1).  Experience with the first project suggests
that over 85% (US$8 M) of expenditure on contract research would be for
operating expenses. About US$1.0 M would be for equipment which could not be



-31-
grouped to form packages and would be procured using limited international
tendering procedures.
3.34      Contract Review.  About 100 bidding packages are anticipated for
contracts let under the project. Most of these would be for civil works and
equipment and would be small because of the dispersed nature of the research
institutes and stations. Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing
$100,000 or more and for machinery, equipment, vehicles and other goods and
services costing $50,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for review prior
to invitation to bid. This would result in about 15% of contracts covering
40% of the value of all contracts being subject to prior review.
H. Disbursement
3.35      Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of:
a. 100% of total BARC contract research grants for approved
sub-projects excluding taxes and duties, as follows:
(i)   Livestock (US$1.53 M),
(ii) Fisheries (US$1.70 M),
(iii) Forestry (US$0.80 M),
(iv)  Other contract research (US$4.45 M);
b. 100% of expenditure on training (US$5.2 M);
c. 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported goods, or 100% of
ex-factory expenditure for locally manufactured goods, or 70% of
total expenditure for goods procured locally (US$3.00 M);
d. 90% of civil works, farm development and research plantation estab-
lishment (US$4.9 M); and
e. 40% (average) of incremental recurrent costs and incremental staff
salaries (US$1.8 M), on a declining basis: FY1985/86, 80%;
FY1986/87, 60%; FY1987/88, 40%; FY1988/89, 20%.
Disbursement against contract research, items a(i)-(iv), farm development and
research plantation establishment, item (d), and recurrent costs, item (e),
would be on the basis of certified statements of expenditure for which BARC
would retain supporting documents which would be made available to IDA repre-
sentatives on request. All disbursements made against statements of expendi-
tures would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA and the docu-
ments would be retained after audit for at least one year. Disbursements
against items (b) and (c) and against civil works (d) would be fully
documented.



-32-
3.36     Disbursements would extend over a period of 6-years (Annex 2, Table
10). Experience in Bangladesh has shown that on average there is a delay of
six months between the time local expenditure is incurred and the time of IDA
disbursement. The estimated disbursement schedule is based upon disbursement
performance of IDA-financed projects in Bangladesh but takes into account
disbursement performance in the first project. In the first Agricultural
Research Project disbursement began slowly but then quickened to well beyond
the pace of disbursement both of IDA agricultural projects in South Asia and
in Bangladesh (Annex 2, Table 10). BARC and BARI are now fully aware of IDA
disbursement requirements and other agencies would be trained in procedures
by IDA staff during the 6 month lead-in period, January to June 1984.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.37      Assurances were given by GOB at negotiations that BARC, BARI, BFRI,
BLRI and NIFR would each maintain project accounts separate from their normal
accounts and that the project accounts would be audited by the Auditor
General's office annually. The audited accounts would be submitted to IDA
within 9 months of the close of the fiscal year.
3.38      GOB also gave an  assurance that BARC would maintain separate
financial records for transactions under eachL contract research sub-project.
All documents in support of the contract research grant scheme would be
independently audited annually and these audit reports would be sent by the
independent auditor to GOB with a copy to IDA within 6 months of the end of
the fiscal year. The independent audit reports of the contract scheme would
be incorporated into the audited project accounts to be submitted to GOB and
IDA by the Auditor General. The final audited accounts would provide a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been
used for the purpose for which they were provided.
IV. RESEARCH PLANNING AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Research Planning and Coordination
4.01      National Agricultural Research Plan.  The Second Five Year Develop-
ment Plan and its central theme, the Medium Term Food Production Plan, will
terminate in 1985. Agricultural research will have a key role to play in
future plans and must prepare now for that role. The National Agricultural
Research Plan, produced by BARC in 1979, would be brought up to date in the
light of the anticipated agricultural needs, the priorities for research, and
the resources available. The updated plan would itemize agricultural policy
and research priorities as determined by GOB, in consultation with IDA, other
donors and all levels of the agricultural production system, especially
farmers. Each BARC Member-Director would coordinate the efforts of relevant
institutes in defining research programs to solve priority problems. The
Plan would identify physical, manpower and financial resources (both from GOB
and donor sources) and would match those resources with the identified



-33-
programs. The Plan would, therefore, define the resource requirements of the
agricultural research system to enable it to tackle GOB-defined priority
needs. The envisaged National Agricultural Research Plan would constitute
the most important document for research orientation during the proposed
project period. BARC would use its available expertise and its increasing
influence with GOB and research institutes to produce an authorita-
tive, officially- recognized document. A draft outline of the National
Agricultural Research Plan was prepared by BARC before negotiations, and the
presentation of a final version of the Plan, endorsed by the Ministry of
Agriculture, and acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effective-
ness.
4.02      The National Agricultural Research Plan would include plans for
each of the Agricultural components, Crops, Livestock, Fisheries, and
Forestry. Previous planning work within the crops sub-sector, such as the
Master Plan for BARI produced in 1980, would enable detailed crop research
plans to be produced in a relatively short time. H{owever, more time would be
needed to develop final plans for Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry. The
National Agricultural Research Plan would therefore be produced in a format
suitable for revision to include greater detail for Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry at a later date. The National Agricultural Research Plan would be
up-dated as necessary in the light of changed priorities, resources and
programs. To ensure that outline research plans for Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry as included in the National Agricultural Plan were further refined
to implementable detail, Master Plans for these components, in a form accept-
able to IDA, would be required as conditions of disbursement against the
respective sub-items, a(i)-(iii), of the contract research grant scheme
(paras 3.08 and 3.35). Sufficient expertise exists within Forestry to
produce a plan but this is not the case in Fisheries and Livestock research.
It would therefore be a condition of credit effectiveness that the consult-
ants for preparation of the Master Plans for Livestock and Fisheries had been
appointed.
4.03      Research Coordination.  BARC would be responsible for coordination
amongst research organizations and for ensuring that research programs are
complementary and not duplicative. Overall policy guidance for agricultural
developmert would be provided by the Ministry of Agricultuire; this policy
would be translated into research plans by BARC. BARC would advise GOB on
the technical feasibility of agricultural policy and on the likely benefits
and risks attached to agricultural strategy. National researc1i would be
coordinated through the mechanism of the National Agricultural Research Plan,
by holding state-of-the-art seminars at BARC, and research planning and
evaluation workshops at BARC, research institutes and regional stations.
Senior staff sabbaticals at other agricultural establishments would foster
research cooperation and coordination. BARC would use the contract research
grant program to promote inter-institutional and inter-disciplinary research.
In line with GOB policy, BARC's advisory, consultative and coordinating role
would be developed through greater collaboration between BARC and GOB.



-34-
BARC's amended ordinance of 1976 would be enforced by GOB, wit'i particular
reference to BARC's specified mandate to:
a. serve as the national organization and coordinating agency for
research in all aspects of agriculture;
b. scrutinize and approve research proposals of various research
institutes and experimental stations before forwarding such
proposals to the Government;
c. evaluate and co-ordinate research work done by various research
institutes and experiment stations under the Government and
autonomous bodies; and arrange periodic review of research programs
of the institutes and stations by competent experts of the Council;
d. establish linkages between research and agencies propagating the
results of the research;
e. advise the Government in matters relating to the utilization of
external aid for agricultural research;
f. arrange national and international conferences, seminars or short
training courses in such fields of iagriculture as it deems neces-
sary; and
g.  maintain contact with the agricultural research organizations of
other countries to ensure the rapid testing, adaptation and use
of potentially useful innovations for Bangladesh.
B. Project Implementation
4.04      The proposed project would be implemented by agencies within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. Overall responsibility for project
implementation would lie with the Secretary, Agriculture and Forestry Divi-
sion, and the Additional Secretary, Livestock and Fisheries Division. The
following agencies would have project implementation responsibilities:
a.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Cotncil (BARC)
b. Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI)
c. Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI)
d. National Fisheries Research Institute (NFRI)
e.  Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute (BFRI)



-35-
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
4.05      BARC would be the main project implementation agency and would
administer the contract research scheme and the staff development and train-
ing program, and would employ all technical assistance consultants on behalf
of research institutes. To enable BARC to continue its central coordination
and administrative role in national research the project would provide key
staff positions. These would include 4 Member-Directors, Secretary, 10
senior scientific staff, 9 administrative staff and support positions.
4.06      Contract Research Scheme (para 3.08).  BARC would continue to
solicit, review and select sub-projects suitable for its support, and to
supervise and evaluate them through its Technical Committee system. Each
Technical Committee would be headed by a Member-Dire. tor whose technical
expertise and proven administrative ability would be essential to the
project. Recent changes in BARC have resulted in the Member-Director posi-
tions for Agricultural Engineering, Livestock and Fisheries and Technical
Support Services being vacant. Responsibility for the work of these posi-
tions has been given to more junior officers. At negotiations GOB confirmed
that scientists acceptable to IDA had been appointed to these Member-Director
positions. GOB gave an assurance that the BARC Member Director posts would
continue to be filled by staff acceptable to IDA for the life of the project.
Formal approval of a sub-project for a BARC grant would be given by the BARC
Executive Committee following its review of the Technical Committee evalua-
tion. The Executive Committee is multidisciplinary and includes all BARC
Member-Directors. The advice of the BARC advisors, provided under USAID
assistance, would be available to guide sub-project selection. Under BARC
statute the BARC Finance Committee is also required to approve such grants.
To expedite the process of grant approval, the Finance and Executive Commit-
tees would meet in joint sessions as a grants board. Research sub-projects
costing above $50,000 would be subject to IDA review prior to formal approval
by BARC, but the cut-off level would be reviewed during implementation to
ensure that about 15% of the sub-projects were reviewed.
4.07      Criteria for the selection of sub-projects and terms and conditions
of the grants have been established in the first agricultural research
project. These are acceptable to IDA. A manual of procedures for the con-
tract research scheme, acceptable to IDA, has been published and circulated
to all research institutions, universities, relevant GOB departments and
donor agencies in Bangladesh. GOB gave an assurance that contract research
procedures set out in the manual would be followed in administering the
program. No part of the project contract research fund would be set aside
for a specific institution or a specific discipline; grants wo-uld be made
according to the importance of the likely outcome of the research to
Bangladesh farming. It is, however, anticipated that selection criteria (See
Project File Item 1) would result in equitable distribution of funds accord-
ing to national research priorities. The criteria emphasise
inter-institutional and inter-disciplinary research aimed towards solving



-36-
practical farming problems applicable to wide areas of Bangladesh. As
forestry, livestock and fisheries are now national priorities, research on
these disciplines, particularly where they are integrated into farming sys-
tems, is likely to be favoured by the selection procedures.
4.08      Staff Development and Training (para 3.21-3.24):  BARC would coor-
dinate and monitor the staff development and training program, administer
funds and award fellowships and grants. All training opportunities would be
advertised nationally and awards would be based on written recommendations
from research organizations. GOB gave an assurance that the suitability of
local and overseas training programs would be approved by IDA. Procedures
for administering the training program were established during the first
project. These selection criteria, procedures and reporting formats are
acceptable to IDA and have been published in a Master Training Plan for the
research sector.
4.09      Technical Assistance (para 3.25).  Employment of local and
expatriate consultants would be arranged by BARC in response to requests from
concerned agencies. Such requests would be accompanied by detailed terms of
reference for each consultant. Outline terms of reference for all technical
assistance required under the project are in the Project File which has been
made available to GOB for project implementation. GOB gave an assurance that
consultants would be employed with qualifications and experience, and on
terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
4.10      The Director of BARI would be responsible for all aspects of the
project to be conducted on BARI research stations. The Associate Director,
Support Services, would supervise the civil works and farm development
programs and would be supported as in the first agricultural research project
by an expatriate engineer provided by the USAID-funded technical assistance
program at BARC. The work program at regional stations and sub-stations
would be the responsibility of the Associate D)irector, Farming Systems
Research (Annex 1, Chart 3). The Associate Director would liaise with the
officers-in-charge of the stations, with the Associate Director, Research,
and with the Directors of other research institutes in developing the
program. Adaptive research, particularly invclving a multi-discipline
approach and geared to solving local farmers' problems, would be promoted in
conjunction with SMO and SMS staff of the extension service.
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
4.11      The Director of BLRI would be responsible to the Additional
Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests for all matters concern-
ing livestock research. The BLRI Director would be responsible for preparing
the Master Plan for Livestock Research and for the planning mission which
would undertake the detailed preparation of the livestock research facilities



-37-
and work program. The proposed organization of BLRI is shown in Annex 1,
Chart 5. Two wings of the Institute would operate under the Director. A
research wing with 1 Divisions would deal with Animal Production, Poultry
Production, Animal Health, and Production Economics and Marketing. A second
wing would deal with administration and support services.
National Institute for Fisheries Research
4.12      The NIFR would be constituted from the existing Directorate of
Fisheries; the 4 existing research stations at Chandpur, Chittagong, Cox's
Bazaar and Mymensingh, would each form a directorate responsible for special
studies (Annex 1, Chart 6). An additional directorate responsible for Brack-
ishwater Fisheries Research would be established under the proposed project
in Khulna District.  Overall coordination of NIFR would be the responsibility
of the Director who would be based at the Riverine Fisheries Station at
Chandpur.  The NIFR Director would liaise with Project Directors at the five
specialist research station through a Deputy Director Research. The Director
would lead the NIFR Planning Mission (para 3.18) which would produce a com-
prehensive work program and budget incorporated into a Master Plan for
Fisheries Research, produce detailed plans for the Brackishwater Fisheries
Station in Khulna District, produce designs and tender documents for required
civil works at Chandpur and Khulna and prepare anticipated staffing lists
and training needs for NIFR. An important function of the mission would be
to produce proposals for fisheries research to be funded from the contract
research scheme (para 3.08). Details of mission composition, terms of
reference and phasing are in the Project File (Item 3).
4.13      Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute (para 3.20).  The Director,
BFRI, would be responsible for all aspects of the forestry research program
and would report, through the Chief Conservator of Forests, to the Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. The Director, assisted by expatriate
staff from UNDP/FAO, and with Ministry staff, would prepare the Master Plan
for Forestry Research (para 4.02).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      Monitoring of the physical execution of project works would be the
responsibility of the Directors of BARI, BLRI, NIFR, BFRI and the Executive
Vice-Chairman of BARC, and would be based on quarterly progress reports
prepared by their construction cells and procurement officers. Quarterly
reports would be submitted to BARC, would include action programs for the
following quarter, and would compare actual achievement with targets. For-
mats for these reports, which would also be forwarded to IDA every quarter,
have been utilized satisfactorily in the first project.
4.15      Improved staffing (para 4.05) would enable BARC to strengthen its
routine monitoring of research sub-project execution. Its efforts would be



-38-
facilitated through (i) annual reports to BARC from the sub-project scien-
tists; and (ii) annual field reviews of each research sub-project by a team
nominated by the relevant Technical Committee. These teams would consist of
the appropriate BARC Member-Director and a scientist from outside the
institution executing the sub-project. The Member-Directors' scientific
staff would assist the team, which would:
a. interview the senior investigator and the research staff
engaged in the project;
b. inspect experimental work in progress and review data
collection and analysis;
c. discuss the progress made, the degree to which the aims
set have been or are likely to be accomplished, and
recommend any changes needed in the plan of research; and
d. submit a brief summary report to BARC, copied to the senior
investigator.
Receipt of the monitoring report and the annual report from the sub-project
scientists, would be a condition of release by BARC of the next installment
of approved grant funds for a sub-project.
4.16      An annual review of the operation of the BARC's research grant
system, with a view to recommending any needed changes would be commissioned
by BARC. About 7 months of an international expert's services and 10 months
of local consultant's services are provided under the project for the pur-
pose. The research monitoring consultants would:
a. examine the performance of each Teclhnical Committee in sub-project
selection, assess the relevance of the sub-projects to the total
program and compare the merit of sub-projects accepted with those
rejected;
b. review the working of the internal monitoring system of BARC;
c.  visit a sample of the grant recipients, to make on-site assessments
of progress of research, achievements and constraints;
d. make specific recommendations for extension or termination of
research sub-projects; and
e. examine the institutional linkages being developed by collaborative
projects.
4.17      Annual reviews conducted under the first project, and as part of
USAID's contribution to the contract research and BARC support programs have



-39-
refined procedures for contract research monitoring and these have been
incorporated into the procedures manual. The beneficial impact of external
review by experienced international scientists on the quality of contract
research, and especially on the thinking and critical analysis of their own
programs by Bangladesh research workers, has been marked.
4.18      Evaluation of the impact of the project would be conducted at
project completion by BARC as part of its responsibility to provide research
leadership. This evaluation effort would be assisted by BARC's annual report
to GOB of its assessment of the status, direction, achievements and limita-
tions of the national research efforts. The evaluation effort would be the
responsibility of the Executive Vice-Chairman of BARC, assisted by the Mem-
ber-Directors. A mid-term review of project activities would be conducted by
IDA in early 1987, in addition to normal supervision to determine whether
project objectives, particularly in relation to the integration of livestock,
fisheries and forestry into national research, were being achieved.
Implementation Schedule
4.19      The project would be implemented over the period July 1984 to
December 1989 with an additional lead-in period from about January 1984 to
July 1984 for mobilization and preparation work (Annex 1, CharL 8).  This
program has been designed to coincide with GOB's annual budget procedures
and for ease of translating project details into the government's project
proforma. The five-year implementation period would be essential to estab-
lish and conduct research projects with a steady flow of funds. Some con-
tract research projects would be expected to yield results before the end
of the project. Designs for most civil works would be according to GOB
standards and have been tested in earlier projects. All construction sites
are owned by GOB and land purchase for project activities would not be
required. Detailed preparation of the Livestock and Fisheries components
would be completed within one year and subsequent investment would involve
mostly renovation of existing facilities. BARC and BARI are fully aware of
IDA procedures, and staff of BLRI, NIFR and BFRI would be monitored closely
by BARC and by the Bank's Resident Mission in Dhaka. Major implementation
delays are, therefore, unlikely.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Attempts to quantify anticipated economic benefits from agricul-
tural research can only be speculative in view of the uncertainty inevitable
in research. Disaggregation of benefits between the components of agricul-
tural systems renders evaluation even more subjective. Sustained improvement
in agriculture may derive from many causes; from a greater or more efficient
use of inputs, from improved extension and training, from adoption of new
technology, or from any combination of factors. Thus apportioning the
benefit which derives from a new technology package between research, exten-
sion, the delivery system for new input requirements, and the training needed



-40-
to ensure the correct use of the new technology, is of questionable sig-
nificance. Recent attempts to evaluate the impact of research in Bangladesh
suggest that the benefit/cost ratio of rice research has been 38:1, of wheat
research 33:1 and of oilseeds research 16:1 (Reference Item 10 of Project
File). These are considered conservative estimates. Globally, various
estimates of economic rates of return to agricultural research have been made
and range from 35-90% in Latin America and from 21-46% in the United States
of America. As agriculture plays the key role in production and employment
in Bangladesh any improvement in agriculture will have a profound effect on
the country's economy. For example, a 20% increase in farm ouLput in
Bangladesh would increase national income by 12 1/2%, more than ten times the
increase which would be expected from more industrialized countries. The
economic benefits would therefore be at least equal to those in Latin
America.
5.02      About 48% of Bangladesh's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) originates
from agriculture. If the project impact were to raise the anticipated GDP
from agriculture by no more than one-tenth of 1% for 15 years beyond project
completion the internal rate of return would be at least equal to the oppor-
tunity cost of capital. Furthermore, the project would generate an economic
rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital if, from 1989, yields
of foodgrains increased by only about 2.5 kg 1ha.  Improvements in yield well
beyond this level would be expected. Any direct benefits from the livestock,
fisheries and forestry components of the project, and any ancillary benefits
from training and motivating scientists, would further increase the rate of
return. Livestock research would be expected to produce improvements in
draft animals, improvements in husbandry techniques geared to local farm
conditions and in the greater exploitation of total livestock potential e.g.
through work on biogas production. Fisheries research would produce recom-
mendations for fish and shrimp production from freshwater and brackishwater
enclosures. Improvement in riverine capture technology could also be
expected. Forestry research would be expectedl to develop techniques for
establishing plantations with fast growing tree species suitable for
Bangladesh conditions and would also produce criteria for efficient forest
planning and management. In common with other agricultural research, there-
fore, the returns to the project are expected to be high.
5.03      In addition to direct production benefits the project would assist
GOB to strengthen its national agricultural research system and would focus
scientific attention on practical farming problems at a regional level.
Evidence suggests that countries gain only limited benefit from research done
elsewhere, even in regions with similar agro-climates, unless they have
developed an applied and adaptive research capability which can take
advantage of new technology from international research. The project would
assist in developing that capability.
5.04      Further important benefits from the proposed project would be
support for a research mechanism to safeguard the massive investment in



-41-
Bangladesh agriculture made in the past decade. Recent research surveys
suggest that over two million hectares of productive paddy lands may be
suffering from minor nutrient deficiencies which could greatly reduce the
expected returns from fertilizer applications. This problem is rendered more
acute by the use of high inputs. Analysis of the situation has demonstrated
the profitability of using fertilizer increases by 35% when minor nutrients
are added to recommended fertilizers. Similar problems associated with pest
and disease incidence are arising, particularly in irrigated areas. The
contract research grants would fund research specifically designed to tackle
such problems which have been identified as national priorities and would be
expected to generate results in the short term. Inappropriate and
ill-defined research in Bangladesh in the past has left many important ques-
tions unanswered. The opportunities for productive research are great. The
project would therefore be expected to have direct and indirect benefits even
greater than those normally associated with agricultural research.
Risks
5.05       The principal risks faced by the project are that scientists would
not come forward with research proposals, that research work would not gener-
ate practical results and that the results of research would be inappropriate
to the needs of farmers, or if appropriate, would not be conveyed to or used
by farmers. There is no evidence that these risks are great. The perfor-
mance of BRRI and BARI scientists over the past several years has demon-
strated their ability to develop meaningful programs. ScientiZic capability
in Bangladesh is high and the development of national research plans and
priorities would focus attention on farming problems and generate research
proposals. The greater sense of awareness and urgency within GOB is result-
ing in greater pressure on research institutes. Research programs are being
scrutinized for their likely practical value and scientists are gradually
gaining recognition from their peers for their contribution to farm produc-
tion as much as from their contribution to research literature. IDA is
continuing to strengthen the extension service in Bangladesh through the
Extension and Research Projects (Credits 729-BD and 1215-BD) and the training
and visit system is being introduced to much of the country. Linkages
between extension and research are being strengthened through District Com-
mittee meetings attended by SMO, SMS and research staff. Farmers have demon-
strated their ready acceptance of improved technology by the widespread
adoption of high yielding rice varieties, the rapid expansion of acreage
under wheat, the rapid growth in fertilizer consumption, and by the recent
adoption of improved varieties of mustard and summer pulses. Incorporation
into agricultural technology packages of improvements in livestock, fisheries
and forestry would, as a result of project research, further enhance the
likelihood of farmers' acceptance of research recommendations.



-42-
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations the following assurances were given by GOB:
a. That site selection, development plans and work program for the
Brackishwater Research Station would be sent to IDA for approval
within one year from the date of project effectiveness (para 3.18);
b.  That local Ph.D courses would include a 2-month exposure tour in
Asia (para 3.21);
c.  That BARC, BARI, BFRI, BLRI and NIFR would each maintain project
accounts separate from their normal accounts, and that project
accounts would be audited by the Auditor General's Office annually
for submission to IDA within 9 months of the close of the fiscal
year (para 3.37);
d.  That BARC would maintain separate financial records for transac-
tions under each contract research sub-project (para 3.38);
e. That BARC's Member Director posts would continue to be filled by
staff acceptable to IDA for the life of the project (para 4.06);
f.  That contract research procedures set out in the agreed manual
would be followed in administering the contract research grant
scheme (para 4.07);
g. That IDA would approve the suitability of local and overseas train-
ing programs to be provided by the project (para 4.08); and
h. That consultants would be employed whose qualifications and
experience and terms of reference were acceptable to IDA (para
4.09).
6.02      The proposed conditions of credit effectiveness are as follows:
a.  That BLRI and NIFR be established once the positions of Director,
BLRI and Director, NIFR had been filled (paras 3.14 and 3.18);
b.  That the UNDP co-financing Project Document had been executed and
delivered (para 3.28);
c.  That the Project Proforma, reflecting the negotiated and approved
project, had been approved by GOB and that a copy had been received
by IDA (para 3.29); and



-43-
d. That a National Agricultural Research Plan acceptable to IDA had
been presented by BARC and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests (para 4.01); and
e. That the key consultants for preparation of Master Plans for Live-
stock and Fisheries had been appointed (para 4.02).
6.03      The following would be a condition of disbursement:
That Master Plans for Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry, acceptable
to IDA had been prepared (para 4.02) as conditions of disbursement
against items a(i), a(ii) and a(iii) (para 3.35).
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$24.5 million.



-44-                                         ANNEX 1
Chart 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Institutions Conducting Agricultural Research in Bangladesh
Ministries:                                         Institutions:
Bangladesh Agricultural
Rexsearch Council
Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Institute
Bangladesh Rice
Research Institute
Forest Research
Institute
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                             Livestock Research
AND FORESTS                                  Centre
Fisheries Research
Institute
Bangladesh Jute
Research Institute
Bangladesh Agricultural
University
Institute of Nuclear
Agriculture
Bangladesh University
of Engineering and
Technology
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                             -Dhak.a University
_Chit:tagong University
L RaJshahi University
BANGLADESH COUNCIL OF                               Regional Laboratories
SCIENTIFIC & INDUSTRIAL                            at Ohaka, Chittagong
RESEARCH                                      and Rajshahi
BANGLADESH ATOMIC   _                               Irradiation & Pest
ENERGY COMMISSION                                I Control Research Centre
Bangladesh Institute
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                Development Studies
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIES         Sugar Mills      _  Sugarcane Research
Corporation          Institute
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE -         Tea Board            Bangladesh Tea
Research Institute
MINISTRY OF LOCAL              C    rBangladesh Academy of
GOVERNMENT & RURAL             Cooperative and    Rural Development at
DEVELOPMENT                  Rural Development   Comilla and Bogra
MINISTRY OF POWER            Water                  Lad   d W          U
WATER RESOURCES AND   -       Development  *         an  an   ater  se
FLOOD CONTROL                Board                  Department



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Ministry of AgrFculture
Organization Chart
Mlnistry of
Agrlculture
Minister
ALminisvestiveockriculturoi al ect                                                                         n                                                 n     hIrrigation   W tef
Rshrivestc                                                                                                  Aarculture &                                             Devevopreent &
Fisheries                                                                                  Forests Dlvisannig SetionnResard   Con ncil
DMvsion                                                                                                                                                                  Divslon
Joint Secretary  Join dtiSeretr        on  ertr                   irco  eea              ailrl/                on  ertr                      DiretoeCharmanddictiChaira
Secretury                                              Secretary                                                                                                        Secretery
--I~                       E-
Bang Flahedesh  &Firunnin6i    artment    FSannin6gSectiS Implementotlonl nt | o                                         |        gaehBangladesh
D irectorate   o t    D irector ate   ot  I     Lad mivest ock l                                                                                  So il  Surve y           Forest  In dustries _rA        grie tu ltur al t
Livestock              Flsheries                          I Pnint                                                                                                                                  Research Institute
__ _--i
JointlSeretaryntSeDretar                      Director L                                       toaI                Jot                                                     C                           Directra
r National                                                                                            6riutr                                          |    8nics
I    Fisheries                                                                                                                     B                                                      Inldeserh   |
R Qesearch                                                                                                                                             RicervEe  l  |   Researche
Institute                                                                                                                                                  Institute
prolect~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he _Scie|ntificut
Director  Director  Director  I                                                                    Officr                    Chalmcoan                   Director
estabnlse                                                                                        Agreuture                      or                     B utoces
Funders theo                                                                                                                  Reaearchc Research
SeeI nstustetutea
-F Certiticatian                                           Nu-tclear     I
Agency                                                 Agrkculture   |         -
|     Director O                                             Director
Wortd 8ankr-24903



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
BaSngkdesh Aguculre Reseorch Insdhe
OrganizatIon Chaot
minisry of
AQb*uKL & Fxe*y
Mnbter/D. Mhtw
Secretow
Rkecha
Boaitd ofGovn
Dhctor
Training.I Prjet              Reeac                                                 .*                                   Iwr
-ant             Ree                                              Reginalt
Breading                                                        Research                                           8c
DWecta          Dllecla                                           ~~~~~~~~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director  teh
1~~~~~~~~~0                              'MX*x .  '  .1
L<Lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo  Banlr2490



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
Organization Chart
Chainnan
Minister for Agriculture
\4ce Chairamn I
Secretary Agric. & Forests Dlv.
Executive VIce Cholrman
Member-Director             Member-Director                                          Member-Dlrector| Member-Director                         Member-Director I
Crops &                     SoilsMember-Directors &Em           rl                  Uvestock &              Agric. Economics &            Research Liaison
Forestry                lrgation        I       Agric. Enginee.ng                 Fisheries                                              & Technicai
Support Services
Crops  Forestry  Sulis  imgation                                   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      SSO          Drecto          TSc
LLivestock   Fisheries        . co       Ag. Eco        Training       ISS
Secretary
- Accounts & Audit
-Personnel
- Stores & Purchase
- Publications
- Forelgn Aid
- Library & Docuimentation
- Transport
PSO: Principal Scientific Officer
SSO: Senior Scientific Officer                                                                                                                                              rt 
'Presently vacant, PSOs temporarily carry out functions of Member-Director.                                          _.                                                        H
World Bank-24904



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Organization Chart for the Proposed
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI)
[         ~~~Directorate|
|          ~~~~Director
Research Wing                                                                     Supp|oSu Services Wlng
|   Depty Director                                                                       C  Dputy Diretor
Animal Production           Poultry Production             Animal Health                LiveMsrtock               Support ervic e                 Bull Production
Division                    Division                     Division                   Marketisng               Supr Services                    & Al. Division
Division~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DvsonDvso
Division Head               Division Head                Division Head               Division Head               Division Head                  Division Head
Animal      l        |      Poultry     l        |       Large      l         |    Production                 Publications &                     Bull
B E;reeding  l      7       Breeding     l      7      Ruminants    l       7       Economics                Extension Research                Production
Uaison Division
l  Rumnant    l   |  Pl+v  l   _         Sma!!       l             ~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~Marketing  **                      Artificiai 
Nutrition                   Nutrition                  Ruminants                    M l et_                      Finance         j            Insemination
_    Large Ruminant    _        PouPoultry          Cultry              l    1FBusiness 7                   H    Construction &  |          Existing unit &
Paroductiona                Maaeettry                                                  BuiesConstruction &                                 facilities at Savar
Production  ~~[                                    JMaintenance                                                              Farm.
Small Ruminant
Production                                                                                                           rement
&Stores
Post Productio
Technology fUbrary
Training        |
Farm Management
& Research Animal
Production
World Bank-24906        U'



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Proposed
National Institute for Fisheries Research (NIFR)
i    Directorate Headqiuarters       f
Chandpur
Director
Research Wing                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support Servces Wing
Deputy Director                                                                                                   Deputy Director
r                          ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     I~     --1-|'  
I                                    1                Marlculture &                     Marine Fisheries &                      Program Planning.
Freshwater Agriculture               Brackishwater Fisheries                   Rlverine Fisheries                  Coastal Agriculture                Fisheries Technology                        Monitoing &
Station, Mymensingh'                    Station. Khulna c                    Station, Chandpurr       I            Station, Cos's Bazar               Station, Chittagongy         i               Evaluation
I            .    I ~~~I Iii
Pro)ect Director           I         Project Director       i     I         Project Director        I             Project Director                   Project Director
_          _______________________________  _               ...                              Administrative
..   l  l    l                           fi                                                       -             1     l    _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support Services i
Agricuture            AfiCLilure                                                                            nCoordination
_   Agriculture       I    _         Agriculture             I |    _     Riverine Ecology                        Crustacean                       Capture Fisheries
Division'           I                Division               I            Studies Division                      Culture Division                       Division
_ .                    l    l    |           ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Finance    4 l  '
|  l    |      _               i                                                                     1      1       g       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division  
Feeds & Nutrition                       NutFeeds                              L jmnologicol      IMaricuiture                                          Craft & Gear 
Division'                           Nutrition               i            Studies Division    j                    Division                         Technology
I               Division       |                        !    .        | |                                   l           |                                          Docurnentation
Breeding &                          Bsackishwater                          Craft & Goear                       Feeds & Nutrition                      Chemistry
FHybridigation'                     Ecology Division    j    I               Technology                              Division                           Dlvislon             I             Publications &
I     '                                                                                                                          l | ] | l I l | I    ' | . i { i  Extenslon Research |
.                                      I                                                                                          l .  i   l l  .     _.   }    |  |  Uaison Division
Pests & Dseases                     Pests & Diseases                        Socio-Economic                J         Chemistry                          Post-Harvest
Divisionivis Divn D                                                                          I                    Division                          Technology         I
I                                I l   l  l   l   l   I       .       I   0         I                       l           l                       i     l       ii      Truining    lT n
'   '  l  r   | I    i     r                       | |           r-                 -   W           |                    _ l      I       0        Dlvision       l l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dviio
I   Soil &  Water     I              Soil & Water                                                                    -Economic                        Economics             L
Ch emistry                           Chemistry
CDhiemstr      |                      hevmihr       | i     !             Administrative    l            i     Socio Eooi                    i       EDnmc                          
Divisior'                             Division           I               Supr  evcs          IDivision                                                Division
I           _ _    _             I                                                                          l               
SociaEconomc        I  I             Socio-Economic                                                                Administrative                      Administrative
Sdcis Economic                        Studies Divisio                                                             Support Servlces                    Support Services
L                    - _ _ _ _ _   ,j _  _  u    |  i  I                I Functional units exist. In some cases under driterent names.
i  l    _i   Administrative      I        Minimal facility exists.
Administrative         i            Support Servces                   i To be supported under the project.                                                                                                           11
Suipport Services'      -L                
World Bankl-24907      a, l'-



-50-                                           ANNEX 1
Chart 7
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Organizaifonal Chart of the Forest Research Institute
Foran  rdctsh                           Publkcatlon          |Manag ertnent
l   Baxnch         l        |          Sectlon                           Branch
Service
Enginesrng
Division
Wood Workang & Tlimber                  Administralton                         Silvicuitural
Engineering Dvision                       DMslon         _                 Research Division
2   Wood Preservation  l                 Wlidltfe       -               M  Forest Sotuny
WooDivislon d    DvSectloni                                                     Division
L j     ~~Pulp & Paper                        B ilostatistics*                       iorFrs
Dlvision   l  H                   2       X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ors ProductsDiiion
DMsion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dvso
Seasoning & Timber                         Seed Center'    1               Mangrove Silviculture
j    Physics DMvsion              1                                               Divisko
Forest Chernistry                        R 2   Fleid   1        2        Forest Econoerics
Division                                  Stations                 |Dsivson               
veneer a Composite                                                                Genetics
*   Wood Products DMrsion ec                                                        Dlvision
Forest Protecalon
Division
<       ~~~Soil Science    |
<         ~~~~Division|
Forestry Inventory      |
Division
'To be establish'ed uncder the project.
World Bank-24908



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY           1984                 1985                               |                                                 1989
Responsible Agencies                         ActMty                 P/                     1984/85             1985/86              1986/87              1987/88              1988/89               1989/90
BAflC/BARI/BFRI         Preparation ot Draft Project Protorna
GOB                     Approval of Project Protorma                            tt
GOB                     Establishment ot Autonomous BLRI & NtFR              g
8ARtC                   Finalization of National Agricultural Research Plan
BAPC                    Establish Contract for Financial Dato Retrieval         Wm
IDA/GOE                 Credit Effectiveness                                          _
BARC/IDA                Preparation & Appravcl ot TOR for Technical Assistants  a
GOB/8LRi/NIFR/8ARC      Employment ot Senior Staff & IA for BLRI/NIFR/BFtl
BL-RI/NIFR              Detailed Preparation ot Infrastructure & Programs
BARI                    Civil Works at Research Stations
BARC/Irrstitutes        Contract Research Progrom                                                -   -|-         - -    -            -          m    m          m                    -          - 1
BARC/Irstitutes         Implementation of Training Progaom                                  - S      -          -     m 1                       -   -           - F
BARC/Consuitants        Evuluation ot Contract Research                                                                      a
BFRI/BLRI/NlfR          Preparation of Research Master PtOrss
BARC/BARI/BLRI/NIFR/BhFRI  Tendering for Machinery. Equlpnrt & Vehicles
WFARC                   Preparation tor CMh Woais at hARC Complex
BARC/Cntroctors         Construction at BARC Complex
BLRI/BFRI               Preparation for Civil Works at Research Stations
NIFR                    Preparation ot Tender Documents for Chandpur & khulna                       |
NIFR                   Cointruction & Renovation at NIFR Chandpur & Khutna                    |
BARC/External Auditors    Auditing Controct Research
BLRI                    Conducting National Livestock Survey                                               -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -
IDA/BARC/GOB           MMia termnEvaluation of Prolect
BARC/lnshfutes/GO8     PreParation Ot Project Completion Report
World Bcnk -2-066



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FROJECT II
Project Cost Summary
Local      Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign       Total        X of
----------(Tk 000) --------            ---------(US$ 000)---------            Total
BARC (Annex 2, Table 2)
Civil works                                        2.31       1.01          3.32            .09         .04           .13
Machinery, Equipment & Furniture                   4.90       6.22         11.12            .19         .25           .44
Vehicles                                            .63         .74         1.37            .03         .03           .06
Recurrent Costs                                   10.53         .66        11.19            .43         .02           .45
Sub-Total                                       18.37       8.63         27.00            .74        .34          1.08       3.4
Contract Research (Annex 2, Table 3)               204.84       30.61       235.45           8.19        1.23         9.42      .29.3
BARI (Annex 2, Table 4)
Civil Works                                        6.62        3.16         9.78            .26         .13           .39
Farm Development                                   4.52         .48         5.00            .18         .02           .20
Machinery, Equipment & Furniture                   4.49       5.76         10.25            .18         .23           .41
Vehicles                                            .51         .68         1.19            .03         .02           .05
Recurrent Costs                                    9.04         .60         9.64            .36         .02           .38
Sub-Total                                      25.18       10.68         35.86           1.01        .42          1.43       4.4
Livestock (Annex 2, Table 5)
Civil Works                                       12.39       5.12         17.51            .49         .21           .70
Machinery, Equipment & Fiurniture                  5.64       6.15         11.79            .22         .25           .47
Vehicles                                           1.23        1.30         2.53            .05         .05           .10
Recurrent Costs                                   26.53        1.58        28.11           1.07         .06          1.13
Sub-Total                                      45.79       14.15         59.94           1.83        .57          2.40       7.5
Fisheries (Annex 2, Table 6)
Civil Works                                       21.68      10.38         32.06            .87         .41         1.28
Machinery, Equipment & Furniture                   8.58      11.68         20.26            .34         .47           .81
Vehicles                                           2.45       3.19          5.64            .09         .13           .22
Recurrent Costs                                   12.65         .83        13.48            .51         .03           .54
Sub-Total                                      45.36       26.08         71.44           i.81       1.04          2.85       8.9
Forestry (Annex 2, Table 7)
Civil Works                                        7.19       3.41         10.60            .28         .14           .42
Research Plantation Establishment                 13.16      12.74         25.90            .53         .51          1.04
Machinery, Equipment and Furniture                 5.29       6.91         12.20            .22         .27           .49
Vehicles                                           2.03       3.70          6.63            .12         .15           .27
Recurrent Costs                                   15.14         .97        16.11            .60         .04           .64
Sub-Total                                      43.71       27.73        71.44            1.75       1.11          2.86        8.9
Staff Development and Training(Annex 2, Table 8)
Training                                          16.84      76.31         93.15            .68        3.05          3.73
Vehicles                                            .43         .52          .95            .02         .02           .04
Recurrent Costs                                    1.79         .11         1.90            .n6         .01           .07
Sub-Total                                      19.06       76.94        96.00             .76       3.08          3.84      11.9
Technical Assistance (Annex 2, Table 9)             17.45       34.27        51.72             .70       1.37          2.07       6.4
Base Cost Estimates                                419.76    229.09         648.85          16.79        9.16        25.95       80.6
Physical Contingencies                              11.53       13.20        24.73            .46         .53           .99       3.1
Price Contingencies                                 77.87      53.09        130.96           3.12        2.12          5.24      16.3                 M
T   x
Total Project Cost                                 509.16    295.38         804.54          20.37       11.81         32.18    100.0          



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKhA '000)
Ouantits                                                           Base Costs                                      Totals Includins  Contingencies
Unit   1     2        3       4       5        6     Total    Unit Cost 1         2        3        4       5       6      Total    1       2        3        4        5       6      Total
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS /a
DOCUNENTATION CENTER                                   SOQTR   -      465       -        -       -        -       465     3.927    -  1,825.9         -       -        -       -  1,825.9    -  2,297.9          -       -                      2,297.9
GUEST HNOSE                                            SoHTR   -      240        -       -        -       -       240      3.927    -    942.4        -       -        -        -    942.4    -  I,IB60 -0                        -       -  1,I86.0
OFFICE ACCOIiNODATION                                  SONIR   -       45        -       -       -        -        45      3,927    -    176.7        -       -        -       -    176.7    -    222.4          -       -        -        -    222.4
CONFERENCE ROOM                                        SONTR   -       95        -       -       -        -        95      3.927    -    373.0        -       -        -       -    373.0    -    469,5          -       -        -       -    469.5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS  7a                                                                                                                 3.318.0        -        -       -        -  3,318.0    -  4,175.8         -       -        -       -  4,175.8      '
D. MACHINERY * EQUIPMENI AND FURNITURE  /b
EGUIPNENT FOR DATA RETRIEVAL SYSTEN                             -       -        -       -       -        -         -               -    687.7   190.4   190.4   190.4   190,4  l,449,4    -    810.8   241.3   256.8   272.4  200.7  1,870.1
AUDITORIUN UPGRADING                                            -       -       -        -       -        -         -               -  6,008.5    64,9    64.9    64.9    64.9  6,260.2    -  7,102.2    82.6    88.2    93.9    99.8  7,466.8
REPROGRAPHIC EWUIPlENT FOR DOCUMENTATION CENTER                 -       -        -       -       -        -         -               -  1,309.9        -        -       -        -  1,309.9    -  1.551.6         -       -        -       -  1,551.6
AIRCOOLERS FOR DOCUNENTATION CENTER AND GUEST HOUSE   NO        -       5        -       -       -        -         5    25.664    -    128.3         -       -        -        -    128.3    -    152.0         -       -        -       -    152.0
REFRIGERATOR FOR DOCUNENTATIDN CENTER                   NO      -       I        -                                  1    26,199    -      26.2        -        -       -        -     26.2    -      31.0        -       -        -       -      31.0
DEHUNIDIFIER FOR WOCUNENTATION CENTER                   NO      -       4        -       -       -        -         4    26.199    -    104.8         -        -       -        -    104.8    -    124.1         -       -        -       -    124.1
RESOURCE MATERIALS AND JOURNALS                                 -       -        -       -       -        -         -               -    333.6   333.6   333.6   333.6   333.6  1,668.2    -    395,2   426.4   456.1   486.5   518.8  2,283.0
FURNITURE (5% OF CIVIL WORKS)                                   -       -        -       -        -       -         -               -    169.9        -        -       -        -    169.9    -    206,0         -       -        -       -    206.0
Sub-Total HACHINERY , EOUIPNENT AND FURNITURE  /b                                                                                      -  80768.9   5a9.0   589,0   589.0   589.0 11,124.8    - 10,372.9   750.3   001.1   852.7   907.6 13,684.6
C. VEHICLES
MOTORCYCLE                                              NO      -       6       -        -       -        -         6    23,692    -    142.1         -        -       -        -    142.1    -    160.8         -       -        -       -    160.8
IICRODUS                                                NO      -       2        -       -       -        -         2   249,171    -    498.3         -        -       -        -    498.3    -    560.1         -       -       -        -    560.1
CAR                                                     NO      -       2       -        -       -        -         2   364.493    -    729.0         -        -       -        -    729.0    -    818.1         -       -        -       -    818.1
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                     -  1,369.5            -        -            -  1,369.5    -  1,539.0             -        -       -       16539.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                                    - 13,456.4   589.0   509.0   589.0   589.0 15,812.3    - 16,087.7   750.3   801.1   852.7   907.6 19,399.4
===  :==:=  ===-=  =======  ==  ==========  ==  ::z=c ==========  =c========  ====c



11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
ADNIN/ACCOUNTS/OTHER OFFICERS                       MY    -        4       4       4       4       4        20    46.433    -    185.7  185.7  105.7  185.7  185.7   928.6    -    214.5  236.0  258.9  283.5  309.7  1,302.7
TYPISTS/ASSISTANTS                                  AY     -       6       6       6       6       6       30    19.252    -    115.5  115.5  115.5  115.5  115.5   577.6    -    133.4  146.8  161.1  176.4  192.6   810.2
OTHER STAFF                                         NY    -        4       4       4       4       4        20    12.457    -    49.8   49.8   49.8   49.8   49.8   249.2    -          57.6   63.3   69.5   76.1   03.1   349.5
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                                                  -   351.1  351.1  351.1   351.1  351.1  1,755.4    -   405.5  446.0  489.5  536.0  585.5  29462.5
B. INCREMENTAL SAL AND ALLOWS ( CREDIT 828 )
MEMBER DIRECTOR                                     NY    -        4       4       4       4       4        20    77.01    -   308.0  308.0  308.0  308.0  308.0  1,540.2    -    355.8  391.4  429.5  470.3  513.7  2.160.6
SECRETARY                                           MY    -        I       I       I       I       1         5    69.083    -    69.1   69.1   69.1   69.1   69.1   345.4    -    79.0   87.8   96.3  105.5  115.2   404.6
PSO/SSO/SO/ECONONIST                                MY    -       10      10      10      10      10        50     54.36    -   543.6  543.6  543.6  543.6  543.6  2,718.0    -    627.9  690.6  757.9  829.9  906.6  3,012.9
ADWIN/ACCOtJTS/OTHER OFFICERS                       NY    -        5       5       5       5       5        25   46.433    -   232.2  232.2  232.2  232.2  232.2  1,160.8    -   268.1  295.0  323.7  354.4  387.2  1,629.4
TYPISTS/ASSISTANTS                                  mY    -       11      11      11      11      11       55   19.253    -    211.8  211.8  211.8  211.8  211.8  1,058.9    -   244.6   269.1  295.3  323.3  353.2  0,485.4
OTHER STAFF                                         NY    -        5       5       5       5       5        25    12.457    -    62.3   62.3   62.3   62.3   62.3   311.4    -    71.9   79.1   86.8   95.1  103.9   436.9
Sub-Total INCRENENTAL SAL AND ALLOWS ( CREDIT 828 )                                                                            -  1,427.0 1,427.0 1,427.0 1,427.0 1,427.0  7,134.8    -  1,648.1 1,812.9 1,989.5 2.178,5 2.379.8 10,000.9 B
C. VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND NAINTENANCE
IOTORCYCLES                                         KM    - 48,000  48,000  480000  48,000  480000   240,000      0.001          52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   263.7    -          60.2   65.5   71.0   76.7   82.8   356.3
MICROBUS                                            KN     - 20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000   100,00O      0.002    -    43.9   43.9   43.9   43.9   43.9   219.7    -    50.1   54.6   59.2   63.9   69.0   296.9
CARS                                                KM    - 24,000  24,000  24,000 24,000  24,000   120,000        0.002    -    52,7   52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7    263.7    -         60.2   65.5   71.0   76.7   82.0   356.3
Stb-Total VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                   -    149.4  149.4  149.4  149.4  149.4   747.1    -    170.5  185,7  201.2  217.4  234.7  1,009.4
D. OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
OFFICE EXPENSES (151 OF INCR SAL AND ALLOWS)               -       -       -       -       -       -         -              -   266.1  266.1  266.1  266.1  266.1  1,330.7    -    307.4  338.1  371.1  406.3  443.8  1,866.7
GUEST HOUSE EXPENSES                                       -       -       -       -       -       -         -              -       -   54.4   54.4   54.4   54.4   217.4    -              -    69.1   75.8   83.0   90.7   310.5
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                          -   266.1  320.5  320.5  320.5  320.5  1,548.1    -    307.4  407.2  446.8  409.3  534.5  2,185.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                             - 2,193.6 2,247.9 2,247.9 2,247.9 2,247.9 11,185.4    - 2,531.5 2,051,9 3,127.0 3,421,2 30734.4 15P665.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                               - 15,450.0 2,836.9 2,836.9 2,836.9 2,836.9 26,997.7    - 10,619.2 3,602.2 3,928.0 49273.9 4,642.0 35,065.3
/a  INCLUDES ARCHITECTS FEES AND SUPERVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                D oQ
OF CONSTRUCTION.
/b DETAILS IN PROJECT FILE NO. 6.0                                                                                                                                                                                                            r



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
CONTRACT RESEARCH
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
Qusantits                                          Base Costs
-----------------------------   Unit  ------------------------------------------------------------
Unit 1   2   3   4   5   6  Total Cost  1        2        3        4         5        6       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
____ ___ _______
A. CONTRACT RESEARCH /a
FORESTRY                                            -   -   -    -    -    -  -         -  2,205.0  50730.0  7,060.0  4S850.0  2,205.0   227O50.0
LIVESTOCK                                           -    -   -   -   -   -    -          -  4,265.0 11,080.0 13Y640.0  9,380.0  4,265.0   421630.0
FISHERIES                                           -    -   -   -   -   -    -          -  4,705.0 12,230.0 15f050.0 10350.0  4,705.0   47040.0
FARMING SYSTEMS                                                               -          - 3.260.0  8,470.0 10,430.0  7,170.0  3,260.0   32,590.0
ON-FARM WATER STUDIES                               -   -   --   -   -    -              -  1370.0  3,570.0  4,3?0.0  3,020.0  l370.0   13,720t0         Un
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING                            -   -   -   -   -   -     -          -  1,150.0  3,000.0  3,685.0  2,535.0  1,150.0   l11520.0
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES          -    -   -   -   -    -   -          -  2,080.0  5,415.0  6,665.0  49580.0  2,080.0   20,820.0
NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY                                  -   -   -   -   -   -     -          -    490.0  1,270.0  1,570,0  1,080,0    490.0    4t900.0
PEST AND DiSEASE STUDIES                            -   -                                     90-   -   -    -  -    ?.0  2Y550.0  3,135.0  2,155.0    980.0    9,800.0
CROP DIVERSIFICATION                                                          -          -    9- 80.0  2,550.0  3,135.0  2,155.0    980.0   9,800.0
SALINITY STUDIES                                    -   -   -   -          -                  590.0  1,530.0 1880.0  1,290.0   590.0    5,880.0
HORTICULTURE                                        -   -   -   -                             295.0   760.0   940,0    650.0    295,0    2,940.0
SPECIAL STUDIES                                    -   -   -   -   -   -      -         -  11750  3,060,0  3,760.0  2f590,0  1,175.0   11f760.0
Sub-Total CONTRACT RESEARCH  /a                                                             - 23545.0 61Y215.0 75,340.0 51i605.0 23,545.0  235,450.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         -23,545.0 61,215.0 75,340.0 51,805.0 23,545.0  235,450,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                            -23,545.0 61,215.0 75,340.0 51,805.0 23,545.0  235,450.0
/a  PRECISE ALLOCATION OF FUNDS BETWEEN RESEARCH
TOPICS WILL DEPEND UPON PRPDOSALS RECEIVED AND APPROVED BY BARC. THE ALLOCATIONS
ARE THEREFORE FOR INDICATIVE PURPOSES ONLY AND DO NOT CONSTITUTE A COMMITMENT
TO ANY SECTOR.                                                                                                                                            U" .Q



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
Guantits                                                              Base Costs                                          Totals Includins Contingencies
Unit    1        2       3        4       5        6     Total    Unit Cost    1         2        3        4       5        6     Total       1       2         3         4       5        6     Total
1. IWJESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS /a
1. AKBARPUR RESEARCH STATION
FUNCTIONAL BUILDINGS                       SOITR       -     100     225        -        -               3 225    3.927        -    392.7   883.5        -        -       -  1,276.2        -    494,2  1213.8         -        -        -  1,707.9
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS                      SOITR       -     405     490        -        -       -       895      3,927        -  1,590,3 1,924.1        -        -       -  3,514.4        -  2,001.4  2,643.3         -        -        -  4,644.7
GODOUN AND THRESHING FLOOR                 SOTR       -     280        -       -        -       -        280     2,433        -    681.4        -       -        -       -    681.4        -    857.5          -       -        -        -    857.5
ELECTRIC AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTER                       -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -    387,1   747.7                 -   -       1,134.9       -    487.2  1,027.2         -        -        -  1,514.5
Sub-Total AK8ARPUR RESEARCH STATION                                                                                               -  3,051.5 3,555.3         -       -        -  6,606.7        -  3,840.3  4,884.3        -        -        -  8,724.6
2. PAHARTALI RESEARCH STATION
FUNCTIONAL BUILDINGS                       SOUTR       -     185        -       -        -       -        185     3.927        -    726.4        -       -        -       -    726.4        -    914.2          -       -        -        -    914.2
ELECTRIC AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTEN                       -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -    127.2    94.0        -        -       -    221.2        -    160.1    129.2         -        -        -    289.3
Sub-Total PANARTALI RESEARCH STATION                                                                                              -    853.6    94.0        -        -       -    947.7        -  1,074.3    129.2         -                 -  1,203,5
3. PAOUA PRSEARCH STATION
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS                      SOUTR       -     190     190        -       -        -       380      3.927        -    746,1   746.1        -        -       -  1,492.1        -    938,9  1,025.0         -        -        -  1,963,9
BUILDING RENOVATION                                    -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -    110.6   110.6        -        -       -    221.2        -    139.2    152.0         -        -        -    291.2
Sub-Total PABNA RESEARCH STATION                                                                                                  -    856.7   856.7         -       -        -  1,713.3        -  1,078.1  1,176,9         -        -       -  2,255.1
4. SHAPIIUR RESEARCH STATION
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS                      SOUTR       -     130        -       -       -        -       130      3.927        -    510.5        -       -        -       -    510.5        -    642.4          -       -        -        -    642.4
Sub-Total SHAIIPUR RESEARCH STATION                                                                                               -    510.5        -       -        -       -    510.5         -    642.4         -       -        -        -    642.4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS  /a                                                                                                            -  5,272.2 4,506,0        -        -        -  9,778.2        -  6,635.2  6,190.4         -       -        - 12,825.6
en C' 0
1D



0, FARM DEVELOPMENT
1. AKRARPUR RESEARCH STATION
SOIL CONSERVATION                                              -       -        -       -        -          -                  -    112.4   112.4    56.2        -        -    281.1        -    142.4    156.3    85.5          -        -    384.2
DRAINAGE AND CULVERTS                                  -       -       -                                                             56.2    56.2        -       -        -    112.4        -      71,2     7S.1        -        -       -    149.4
IRRIGATION  MORNS                                     -        -       -        -       -        -         -                  -    112.4   337.3   224,8         -        -    674.5        -    142,4    468.9   342.0          -        -    953.3
FENCING                                    MTRS   3,050        -       -        -       -        -     3,050      0.736 2,245.9         -       -        -        -       -  2,245.9 2,591.3          -         -       -        -        -  2,591.3
ROADS                                                  -                                                    -                  -    140.5   140.5        -                     281.1        -    178,0    195.4         -        -        -    373.4
Sub-Ttal ARKBARPL'R RESEARCH STATION                                                                                       2,245.9    421.6   646.4   281,1          -       -  32595.0 2f591.3    534.1    898.7   427.5                    -  4,451.6
2. PAHARTALI RESEARCH STATIDN
FENCING                                    NIRS     610        -               _                          610     0.736   449.2         -                -        -            449.2   S18.3                   -         -       -             518.2
Sub-Total PAHARTALI RESEARCH STA7IOH                                                                                         449.2         -        -       -        -       -    449.2   518.3          -         -       -         -       -    518.3
3. PADNA RESEARCH STATION
LAND LEVELLING                                         -                                                    -                  -     28.1    28.1        -        -       -      56.2        -     35.6      39.1       -        -        -     74.7
FENCING                                    MTRS     610        -        -       -        -       -        610     0.736   449.2         -       -        -        -       -    449.2   518.3          -         -       -        -        -    518,3
Sub-Total PABNA RESEARCH STATION                                                                                              449.2     28.1    28.1        -        -       -    505.4   518.3       35.6      39.1            -            -    592.9
4. SHNRPUR RESEARCH STATION - RAJSHAHI
FENCING                                    HIRS     610        -       -        -       -        -        610     0.736   449.2         -       -        -        -       -    449.2   518.3          -         -       -        -        -    518.3
Sub-Total SHAMPUR RESEARCH STATION - RAJSNHAI                                                                                 449.2        -        -       -        -        -    449.2   5t8.3         -         -        -       -             51.3
Sub-Total FARN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                     3,593.5    449.7   674.5   281.1         -        -  4,998.8 4,146.1    569.7    937.8   427.5           -        -  6,001.0
C, MACHINERY , EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE /b
1. FARM KMCHINERY  HORKSHOP - JOYDEBPUR
SMP RD HAND TDOLS                                      -       -       -        -       -        -          -                  -     66.3    66.3        -        -       -    132.6         -     78,5      84.7            -            -    163.3
ODBILE SERVICE UNIT                                    -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -     66.3        -       -        -       -      66.3        -     78.5         -       -        -        -      78.5
SPARE PARTS                                            -       -                                                               -  1,069.3 1,069.3 1,069.3 1,D69.3 2,138.7  6,416.0           -  1,266,6  1,366.6 1,461.8  1,559.4 3,325.7  8,980.0
Sub-Total FARM MACHINERY UORKSHDP - JOYDESPUR                                                                                     -  1,201.9 11235.6 1,069,3 1,069.3 2,138.7  6,614.9           -  1,423.6  1,451.3 1,461.8 1,559.4 3,325.7  9,221.8
2. AKDARPUR RESEARCH STATION
FIELD EQUIPMENT                                        -       -       -        -       -        -          -                  -        -   657.6   657,6         -       -  1,315.3         -        -    840.4   099.0          -        -  1,739.5
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                                  -        -       -        -       -        -          -                  -        -   197.8   329.4         -       -    527.2         -        -    252.8   450.2          -       -    703.1
LABORATORY AND OFFICE ELUIPMENT                        -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -        -   526.1   526.1         -        -  1,852.2        -        -    672.3   719.2          -       -  1,391.6
FUIRNTURE (5% OF NEH BUILDINGS)                       -        -       -        -       -        -          -                  _    101.9   143.8        -        -             245.8        -    123.6    191.9         -        -             315,5
Sub-Total AKBRRPUR RESEARCH STATION                                                                                               -    101.9 1,525.4 1,513.1         -        -  3,140.4        -    123,6  1,957.5 2,068.5          -        -  4,149.6
3. PARBNA RESEARCH STATION
FIELD EOUIPMENT                                                -          -        -       -          -              -               66.3    66.3        -        -       -    122.6         -     78.5      84.7                         -    163.3
FURNITURE (51 OF NEW BUILDINGS)                        -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  -     38.5    38.5         -       -        -     77.0        -     46.7      51.4        -                       90.1
Sub-Total PADNA RESEARCH STATION                                                                                                  -    104.8   104.8         -       -        -    209.6        -    125.2    136.1         -        -        -    261.3
sQ vi =
o   '4



-58-                                                                  Annex 2
Table 4
Page 3 .f 4
*  I  I   II 5            I   I  I   I.                  I jI^  l             I    I    I  I  I    !   qe i 55
g     I r-                   : >I                                               I      I o 1
-o  I                                  I    IC     I; I
c  4 104                                              1 oI  |I  I
.0 - *        i t *           Innt                                                                   tiCl
10                                                                        I     I  11 1      o
t   I  t                  I                    I     I    ~~~~~~~~I oi11
-     I             l    -I  _I                                   --I    *I-_I   oIl
I   g  t                      l                   ,      t     ,;I-I tt
so 1-    010 r. o00                                                          tO    -      xtr   o* W_ |~ |~
It    ~l til       I  Ii                                                 j     .       I  j I  Il
I          I   I   ~l  Iw             I   I         I  I                  rI  I
ffl   I                       !   4    I I  I                                          i   --   ff*
-                     . |                              x        v      I    oI       lo | _ll
!1111            01 ~          0r   I !-                         -or-ti-     * 
'  '  't4  '-           '1        I '    5C~ '- s0                                   10- 5    ''5   il'{^ f
I               I      I   -I                                      I      I  -  I   r  1
I     I     I.-                I--                                -   I-I
I ~  ~      ~                                    _ Ifl         I      IIfI
I         e I0                9 I! I                -                 t
I !      Iz          2     !         I Ss -                           l   5 .
f  I                   5                              5    I I  Ie    d I
;i    -                X ~IS    at  a.                                 i-  _  



11. RECURRENT COSTS
A, INCRENENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
1. FARM NACHINERY WORKSHOP - JOYDE8PUR
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                      MY                I       I       I       I       1         5    54.36       -     54.4   54.4   54.4   54.4   54.4    271.8            -    62.8    69.1   75.8        83.0   90.7   381.3
STORES OFFICER                          NY        -       I       I       I       I       I         5   46.433        -    46.4   46,4   46.4    46.4    46.4   232.2           -    53.6    59.0   64.7        70.9   77.4   325.7
SENIOR NECHANIC                         NY        -       2       2       2       2       2        10   19.252        -    38.5   38.5   38.5   38.5   38.5   192.5             -     44.5    48.9   53.7       58.8   64.2   270.1
AUTO ELECTRICIAN                        MY                I       I       I       I       I         5    !2,457             12.5   12,5    12.5   12,5    12.5       62.3 -144                 15,8    17,4     19,0   20,8      87.4
URJKSHOP ASSISTANT                      HY        -       2       2       2       2       2        10   12.457              24,9   24.9   24.9   24.9   24.9   124.6            -    28.8    31,7    34.7       38.0   41.6    174,8
STORE ASSISTANT                         KY                2       2       2       2       2        10   12,457        -     24.9   24.9   24,9    24,9    24.9    124.6         -     28.8     31.7    34.7     38.0   41,6    174.8
HECHANI.C/DRIUER                        MY        -       2       2       2       2       2        10   12.457        -    24.9   24,9   24.9    24,9    24.9    124.6          -    28.8      31.7    34.7     38.0   41,6    174.8
Sub-Total FARM NACHINERY WORKSHOP - JOYDEBPUR                                                                            -   226.5  226.5  226.5   226.5   226.5  1,132.5          -   261.6   287.8  315,8    345.8  377,7  1,588.7
Sub-Total INCRENENTM. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                                               -   226.5  226,5  226.5  226.5  226.5  1,132,5                 261.6   287.8  315.8   345.8  377,7 1588,7
8, INCRENENTAL SAL AND ALLOWS ( CREDIT 828 1
PSD/SSO/SO AT JANhLPUR                     MY        -       7       7       7       7       7        35    54.36        -   380.5  380,5  380.5  380.5  380,5  1,902,6            -   439.5   483.5  530.5    580.9  634.6  2,669,0
PSO/SSO/SO AT JESSORE                      mY        -       7       7       7       7       7        35    54.36        -    380.5  380.5  380.5  380,5  380.5  1,902.6           -   439.5   483.5  130.5    580.9  634.6  2,669,0
PSD/SSO/SO AT HATHAZARI                    MY        _      li      11      11      11      11        55    54.36        -   598.0  598.0  598,0  598.0  598.0  2,989,8            -    690,6    759.7   833.7    912.9  997.2  4.194,2
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SAL AND ALLOWS ( CREDIT 828 1                                                                         - 1,359.0 1,359.0 1.359.0 1,359.0 1.359.0  6,795.0        -  1.569.6  1,726.6 1,894,7  2P074.7 2.266,4  9,532.2
C. VEHICLE OPERATION AND NAINTENANCE
1. FYRN NACHINERY WORKSHOP - JOYDE8PUR
SERVICE UNIT PICKUP                     KH        -  24,000  24,000  24.000  24,800  24,000   120.000     0.002       -    52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   52,7   263.7             -    60.2    65.5   71.0        76.7   82.8   356.3
Sub-Total FhARN  ACHINERY WORKSHOP - JOYDE8PUR                                                                           -    52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   263.7             -     60.2    65.5    71.0      76.7   82.8    356.3
2. AKDARPUR RESEARCH STATION
PICKUP (ONE)                            KN        -  15.008  15.000  15,000  15.080  15,880    75.080     0,002       -    33.0   33.0   33.0   33.0   33.0   164.8             -     37.6    41.0   44.4        48.0   51.8   222.7
MOTORCYCLE (TWO)                        KM        - 16.000  16.000  16,000  16,000  16,000   808000    0.001          -    17.6   17.6   17.6   17.6   17.6          87,9       -    20.1    21.8   23.7         25,6   27.6   118.8
Sub-Total AKRARPUR RESEARCH STATION                                                                                      -    50.5   50.5   50.5   50.5   50.5   252.7             -    57,7    62.8   68,0        73.5    79.4   341.4
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATION AND NAINTENANCE                                                                                 -    103.3  103,3  103.3  103.3   103.3   516,4           -    117.8   128.3   139.0    110,3  162,2   697.7
D. OTNER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
OFFICE EXPENSES/c                                    -       -       -       -       -       -         -                 -    237.8  237.8  237.8  237.8   237.8  1.189.1          -    274.7   302.2  331.6    363.1  396.6  1,668.1
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                       -    237.8  237.8  237.8  237.8  237.8 1189.1            -   274.7   302,2  331.4    363.1   396.6  1.668.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                           -  1,926.6 1,926.6 1,926.6 1,926.6 1,926.6  9.633.0       -  2,223.8  2,444.9 2,681.2  ^,933.9 3,203.0 13,486,7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                       3.593,5 108357.7 9,985.2 4,856.4 2.995.9 4,065.3 35.054.1 4,146.1 12,571,0 13,261.4 6,729,6  4,493.2 6.528.7 47.730,0
la  INCLUDES ARCHITECTS FEES AND SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                        x
/b  DETAILS IN PROJECT FILE NO 9.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
/c  152 OF INCR SAL AND ALLOWS.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT 11
BANGLADESH LIVESTOCK RESEARCH INSTITUTE /a
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
Quantity                                                             Base Costs                                            Totals Includina Continsencies
Unit   1    2        3        4       5        6     Total    Unit Cost    1         2        3        4         5        6     Total       1        2       3         4         5        6       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WRKS /b
ADHIN BLDG ANNEX AT SAVAR                             SUfMTR   -      -     604        -        -       -        604     3.927        -        -  2,371,7         -        -       -  2,371.7         -       -  3,258.3          -                   -  3.258,3
RESIDENTIAL BLOSS AT SAVAR                            SOMTR   -       -   1,520   1,124         -       -      2,644     3.927        -        -  5,960.5  4.413.6         -       - 10,382.1         -       -  8,199.6  6,5-7.9           -        - 14,707.5
BLDG RENOVATIONS AT SAVAR                                      -      -        -       -        -       -          -                  -        -  4,756.2         -        _       -  4,756.2         -       -  6,534.2          -         -            6-334,2
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS  /b                                                                                                                 -       - 13,096,4  4,413,6         -       - 17t510.0         -        - 17,992.1  6,587.9          -         - 24,580.0
B. MACHINERY , EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE /c
REHAB OF EXISTING MACHINERY                                   -       -        -       -        -       -          -                  - 1,309.9  1309.9    654.4   654.4   654.4  4,583.2            - 1,551.6  1-674.0    894.7    954.3  1,017.7  6,092.2
NEN EQUIPMENT                                                     -       -            -                                              - 1,309.9  1,309.9  1,309.9 1,309,9 1,309.9  6,549.7            - 1,551.6  1,674.0  1790.8  1,910.2  2,037.0  1,963.6
FURNITURE (5% OF NEN BUILDINGS)                                -      -        -       -        -       -          -                  -        -    427.0    226.5         -       -    653.5         -        -    569.6    331.6          -         -    901.1
Sub-Total MACHINERY, EQUIPIMENT AND FURNITURE  /c                                                                                         - 2619.9  3.046.8  2.190.9 1,964.4 1,964.4 11,706.3            - 3,103.1  3,917.6  3.017.0  2-864.5  3,054.6 15,956.9
C. VEHICLES
CAR                                                    NO      -      -        2       1        -                  3   364.493        -        -    729.0    364.5         -       -  1,093.5         -       -    878.0    467.2           -         -  1,346.0
ItCROBUS                                               NO      -      I        -       -        -           -      1 249.171          - 249.2            -        -        -       -    249.2         -   200.1         -         -         -        -    200.1
PICKUP                                                 NO      -               I       I        -                  2   476.565        -        -    476.6    476.6         -       -    953.1         -       -    575.6    612.0           -        -  10,8.4
MOTORCYCLE                                             NO      -      -               10        -       -         10    23.692                 -         -    236.9        -       -    236.9                 -         -    311.2          -        -    311.2
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                        -   249.2  1,205.5  1.078.0         -        -  2,532,7        -   280.1  1,454.4  1,391.3           -         -  3.125.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                       - 2,009,0 17,348.8  7.682.4 1,964.4 1,964.4 31,829,0           - 3,383.2 23,364.1 10,996.1  2,864.5  3,054.6 43,662.6
.   .



11. RECURRENT COSTS
a. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
1. SALARIES
DIRECTOR                                           MY   0.5       1       1        1       1        1       5.5    61.155    30.6    61.2        61.2     61.2    61.2    61.2    336.4    32.1    70.6         77,7      S5,3      93.4    102.0    461.1
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                                    MT   0.5       1       2        2       2        2        9,5    57.758    20.9    57.0    115.5    115.5   115.5   115,5    548,7    30.3    66.7    146.8    161.1    176,4    192.6    773.0
PRINCIPAL SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                       MY     I       4       6        8       a        a        35    57,758    57.8   231.0    346.5    462.1   462.1   462.1  2,021.5    60,6   266.8    440.3    644,2    705.4    770.6  2,888.0
SENIOR SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                          MY     1       4       6        8       0        8         35     54.36    54.4   217.4    326.2    434.9   434.9   434.9  1,902.6    57.1   251.1    414.4    606.3    663.9    725.3  2,718.1
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                                 MY     2       6       8       12      12       12        52    53.228   106.5   319.4    425.8    638.7   638.7   638.7  2767.8   111.8   368.9    541.0    090,5    975.1  1,065.2  3,952.5
TYPISTS/ASSISTANTS                                 MY     4       6       a       10       10      10         48    19,253    77.0   115.5    154.0    192.5   192.5   192.5    924,1    80.9   133,4    195.7    268,4    293.9    321.1  1,293.4
DRIVERS/MESSENGERS                                 MY     -       1       5       15      15       15        51    12.457         -    12.5      62,3    186.9   186.9   186.9    635,3          -    14.4      79.1    260,5    285.3    311.6    951.0
OTHER SUPPORT STAFF                                MY     2       2       3        5       5        5         22    12,457    24.9    24.9       37.4     62.3    62,3    62.3    274.1    26.2    2808         47.5      06,8      95.1    103.9    388.2
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                                               380.0 1,039.6  1.528.9  2,154.0 2,154.0 2,154.0  9,410,5   399.0 1,200,8  1,942,4  32003,2  3.280,5  3,592.3 13,426.1
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                                                       380.0 1,039.6  1,528.9  2,154.0 2,154.0 2,154.0  9,410.5   399.0 1,200,8  1,942.4  3,003.2  3,288.5  3,592.3 13,426.1
B. VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND NAINTENANCE
MICROBUS                                              Km     - 10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000    50,000         0.002        -    22.0      22.0     22.0    22,0    22.0    109,9           -    25.1      27.3      29.6     32.0      34.5    14804
CAR                                                   Km     -       -  24,000  36,000  36,000  36,000   132,000        0.002        -        -     52.7      79.1    79.1    79.1    290.1          -       -      65.5    106,5    115.1    124.2    411.4
PICKUP                                                KH      -      -  15,000  30,000  30,000  30,000   105,000        0,002        -        -     33.0      65.9    65.9    65.9    230.7          -       -      41.0      08.7      95.9    103.5    329.2
MOTORCYCLE                                            KM         -            -  800,000  00,000  80,000   240,000      0.001        -                        87.9    87.9    87.9    263,7          -       -         -    118.3    127.9    138.0    384.3
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                             -    22.0    107.7    254.9   254.9   254.9    094.4           -    25.1    133.8    343.2    370.9    400.3  1,273.2
C. OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
1. RESEARCH ANIMALS MAINTENANCE EXPENSES
CATTLE                                             NO     -    100      200      300     300      300     1,200      8.879        -   887.9  1.775,8  2,663,6 2,663.6 2,663.6 10,654.6            - 1.128.1  2,481.7  4,085.1  4,473.2  4,886,4 17,054.4
GOATS                                              NO     -      60     100      100     100      100        460     4.439        -   266.4    443.9    443.9   443.9   443.9  2.042.1            -   338,4    620.4   600,0    745.5    814.4  39199,6
POULTRY                                            NO     -  1,000   2.000   39000   3,000   3,000    12,000         0.227        -   226.5    453.0    679.5   679.5   679.5  2,718.0           -   287.0    633.1  1,042,1  1,141.1  1,246.5  4,350.6
_  _   _  _ - - ---- - _- ----- -   -- - - -- --_ -- - - - --   --- -- -   - -- - - - --_ - --- - --_ -- - - --_- - -- -- ---- -- -- - ---- - -- -- -   - - -- - -- -   - --- -- -
Sub-Total RESEARCH ANIMALS MAINTENANCE EXPENSES                                                                                      - 1,380.7  2,672.7  3,787.1 3,787,1 3,787.1 150414.7            - 1,754.2  3,735.2  5,808,0  6,359.8  6,947.4 24,604.7
2. OFFICE EXPENSES (15% OF INCR SAL AND ALLOWS)              -       -       -        -        -       -          -               56.6   156,3    220.8    314.8   314.8   314.8  1,370.3    59.5   180.5    200.6    439,0    480.7    525.1  1,965.2
3, ADMIN SUPPORT AND TRAVEL FOR DETAILED PLANNING            -       -        -       -        -       -          -              669.3   344.3         -         -        -       -  1,013.6   702.8   397.6           -         -         -         -  1,100.4
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                               725.9 10881.3  2,093.5  4,101.9 4,101.9 4,101.9 17.806.5   762.2 2,332.4  4,015.8  6,247,0  6,840.4  7,472.4 27,670.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                  1,105.9 2,942.9  4,530.1  6,510.8 6,510.8 6,510.8 20,111,4 1,161.2 3,558.2  6,092,0  9.593,3 10,499.8 11,465.0 42,369.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                    1,105.9 5S012.0 21,078.9 14,193.2 0,475.2 8,475.2 59,940.4 1161.2 6.941.4 29,456.1 20,589.4 13,364.3 14,519.7 0t;0322.
/a  EXCLUDES TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTAMCEE
FOR THIS COMPONENT (SEE TABLES 8 1 9).
/b  INCLUDES ARCHITECTS FEES AND SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                              it
/c  DETAILS IN PROJECT FILE NO. 2.0



BANGLADESN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR FISHERIES RESEARCH /a
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
2uantit'3                                                           Dase Costs                                          lotals In cluding Contingencies
Unit   1     2        3       4       5        6     Total    Unit Cost   1        2        3        4         5       6     Total      1       2        3         4        5         6       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL NORKS /b
1, CHANDPUR
BUILDING RENOVATION                                       -       -        -       -        -                                   _        -  1,493.2  1,493.2        -       -  2,986.5       -        -  2,051.4  2,228.9          -        -    4,280.3
LAND DEVELLING                                                -        -       -        -       -        -                      - 1355.0          -  11355.0        -       -  2,709.9       - 1,705,3         -  2,022.5          -         _    3,727.8
Sub-Total CHANDPUR                                                                                                                 - 113S5,0  1,493.2  2,848.2         -       -  5,696.4       -1,705.3  2,051.4   4,251.4           -         -    8,008.1
2. KHULNA /c
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING                           SONTR   -        -       -     760        -       -       760      3.927      -        -        -  2,984.3        -       -  2,984,3       -        -        -  4,454.4          -        -    4,454.4
LABONATORY BUILDINGS                              SDlTR   -       -   1,365   1,025         -       -     2,390      3.927      -        -  5o359.9  4,024.8        -       -  9,384.7       -        -  7,363.5  6,007.6          -        -   13t371.1
EXPERIIENTAL PONDS                                        -            -                                  - -                   -        -  1,517.0  1,842.8        -       - 3,360.3        -        -  2,084.9   27150.6         -         -    4,835.4
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS                             SONIR   -        -       -   1.845        -       -     1,845      3.927      -                 -  7,244.7        -       -  7,244.7       -        -        - 10,813.7          -        -   10,813.7   o-
LAND DEVELLING                                            -       -        -       -        -       -         -                 -        -  1,760.9  1r626.0        -       -  3,386.9       -        -  2.419.2  2,427.0          -         -    4,846.2
Sub-Total KHULNA /c                                                                                                                -        -  8,638.4 17,722.5        -       - 26,360.9       -        - 11,867.5  26,453.4         -         -   38,320.9
Sub-Total CIVIL MORIS  /b                                                                                                              - 1,355,0 10,131.6 20,570.7        -       - 32,057.3       - 1,705.3 13,919.0  30,704,7          -         -   46,328.9
B. NACHINERY , EOUIPNENT AND FURNITURE /d
1, CHANDPUR
REHAB OF EXISTING EGUIPNENT                               -       -        -       -        -       -         -                 - 1,309.9  1,309.9    786.0  655.5   524.0  4y%MS,3          - 17"551.6  1.074.01074,5    955.9    814.8    6,070.7
NEN EQUIPMENT                                                 -            -       -        -       -         -                 -   655.5  1,309.9  1,309.9 1,309.9 1,309.9  5.895,2         -   776.4  tl674.0  1,790,3  1,910.2  2,037.0    8,1S8.4
Sub-Total CHANDPUR                                                                                                                 - 1,965.4  2,619.9  2,095.9 1l965.4 1,833,9 10,480.5         - 2,320.0  3,348.1  2,065.2  2-,66.1  2s851,8   14,259.1
2. KNULNA
NEW EQUIPMENT                                             -       -        -       -        -       -         -                 -       -         -  1,309.9 2,619.9 2,619.9  6,549.1        -        -        -   1,790.0  3,.20.A  4,074.0    9-685.1
FURNITURE (5% OF BLDG COST)                               -        -       -       -        -       -         -                 -        -    274.4    729.7        -       -  1,004.1       -   -         366.1                .. PS.2  -   -    1,434.3
Sub-Total KHULNA                                                                                                                            -    274.4  2,039.6 2,619.9 2,619.9  7,553.7        -             366.1   2,059,0  3,820.4  4,074.0   11,119.4
3. MYNENSINGH
NEW EQUIPMENT                                             -       -        -       -        -       -         -                 -       -    262.0    655.5  655.5  655.5  2,228.5           -        -    134.8     896.1    955.9  1,019.2    3,260.i
Sub-Total MYMENSINGH                                                                                                               -        -    262.0    655.5  655.5   655.5  2,228.5         -        -    334.8     896.1    955.9  1,019.3    3,206.1
Sub-Total MACHINERY, EQUIPNENT AND FURNITURE  /d                                                                                      -1965.4  3,156.3  4,791.0 5,240.0 5,109.3 20,262.7           - 2,328.0  4,048.9   6,62P0.  7,642.4  7,945,1   20.504,7
H rIX
Of "o  '



C. VEHICLES
1. CHANDPUR
CAR                                                   NO      -        I                 2        -        _          3   364.493        -   364.5          -    729.0         -        -  1,093.5        -   4090            -      934.5         -          -    1,343.5
MICROBUS                                              NO      -        I        -        -                            1   249.171        -   249.2          -         -        -        -    249.2         -   280.1          -          -         -          -       280.1
PICKUP                                                NO      -                 2        -                            2   476.565        -        -    953.1          -        -        -    953.1        -         -  1,151.2           -                          1,151.2
SPEEDBOAT                                             NO      -        -        I        _                            1   151.692        -        -    151.7          -        -        -    151.7        -         -    183,5           -          -         -       183.5
COUNTRY BOAT                                          NO      -        -        2        -        -                   2   650.259        -        -  1,300.5          -        -        -  1,300.5         -        -  1,572.8           -         -          -    '7'2
Sub-Total CHANDPUR                                                                                                                           -   613,7  2,405.3      729.0         -        -  3,748.0        -   689.1  2,907.5        934.5          -         -    4,531.0
2. KNULNA
CAR                                                   NO      -        I        -        -        _                   1364.493           -   364,5          -         -                       364,5        - 409.8            -           -                           409.0
PICKUP                                                NO      -        I        I        -        -                   2   476.565        -   476.6    476.6           -         -       -    953.1         -   535.4    575.6            -         -          -    1,110.9
TRUCK                                                 NO      -        -        1                                     1 344.186          -        -    344.2          -                       344.2        -        -    415.7            -         -         -       415.7
MOTORCYCLE                                            NO      -        2        4        -        -                   6    23.692        -    47.4       94.8          -        -       -    142.1         -    53.6    116.0                 -               -       16Y.6
BICYCLE                                               NO      -        -        4        0       10       10         32      2.831       -        -      11.3      22.6    28.3    28.3        90.6        -        -      14.4       31.6       43.2      47.2       136.4
Sub-Total KHULNA                                                                                                                             -   888.4    926.8       22.6    28.3    28.3  1,894,6           -   998,0  1,121.7         31.6       43.2      47.2    2,241,7
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                              - 1,502.1  3,332.2    751.6    28.3    28.3  5,642.5             - 1,687.1  44029.1         966.1      43.2      47.2    6,772.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                              - 4,822.5 16,620.0 26,113.3 5,269.1 5,137.6 57,962.5             - 5,720.3 21,997.0  38,291.0  7,685,6  7,992.3   81,686.3
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A, INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
1. SALARIES AT CHANDPUR
DIRECTOR                                             MY   0.5         1        1        1        l        I        5.5    61.155   30.6    61,2         61.2      61.2    61.2    61,2    336.4   32.1    70.6            77.7       85.3       93.4    102.0        461.1
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                                      MY      -        -        1        2        2        2          7    60.023        -        -      60.0    120.0   120.0   120.0    420.2            -        -     76.3       167.4    183.3    200.2          627.1
PROJECT DIRECTOR                                     MY   0.5         1        1        1        1        1        5.5      58.89   29.4    S8.9        58.9      58.9   5.9    58.9    323.9   30.9    68.0            74.8        82.1       89.9      98.2       444.0
PRINCIPAL SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                         MY      -        -        1        1        1        1          4    57.758        -        -      57.0      57.8    57.8    57.8    231.0           -        -     73.4        80.5       88.2      96.3       338.4
SENIOR SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                            MY      -        -        I        1        2        2          6      54.36       -        -      54.4      54.4   108.7   10.7    326.2           -        -     69.1         75.8    166.0    181.3          492.1
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                                   MY      -        1        2        3        3        3         12    53.228        -    53.2    106.5    159,7   159.7   159.7    638.7              -    61.5     135.3       222.6    243.8    266.3          929.5
TECHNICAL SUPPORT STAFF                              MY      -        -        2        4        6        6         18    19.252        -        -      38.5      77.0   115.5   11S.5    346.5          -         -     48.9       107.4    176.4    192.6          525.3
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF                         MY   0.5         1        2        3        3        3       12.5    12.457    6.2    12.5         24.9      37.4    37.4    37.4    155.7    6.5    14.4            31.7       52.1      57.1       62.3       224.1
Sub-Total SALARIES AT CHANDPUR                                                                                                          66.3   185.7    462.1    626.3   719.1   719.1  2,778.6   69.6   214.5    587,0                873.2  1,097.9  1,199.3    4,041.5
2. SALARIES AT KHULNA
PROJECT DIRECTOR                                     MY      -        I                          1        1          5      58.09       -    50.9       58.9      58.9    58.9    58.9    .94.5           -    68.0       74.8       82-1      89.9       98.2       413.1
PRINCIPAL SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                         MY      -                 1        2        2        2          7    57.758        -        -      57.8    115.5   1IS.S   115.5    404.3            -        -     73.4       161.1      176.4    192.6         603.4
SENIOR SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                            MY      -        -        1        3        4        4         12      54.36       -        -      54.4    163.1   217,4   217.4    652.3            -        -     69.1       227.4    332.0    362.6          991.0
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                                   MY      -        2        4        6        6        6         24    53.228        -   106.5    212.9    319.4   319.4   319.4  3,277.5              -   123.0    270,5        445.3    487.6    532.6    1,858.9
TECHNICAL SUPPORT STAFF                              MY      -        -        4        0       10       10         32    19.253        -        -      77.0    154.0   192.5   192.5    616.1            -        -     97.8       214.7    293.9    321.1          927.6
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF                         MY      -        2        4        6        6        6         24    12.457        -    24,9       49.8      74.7    74.7    74.7    299.0           -    28.8       63.3      104.2    114.1    124.7          435.1
Sub-Total SALARIES AT KHULNA                                                                                                                -   190.3    510.8    885.6   97B.5   978.5  3,543.6             -   219,8    648.9    1,234.7  1,493.0  1,631.8    5,229.1
3. SALARIES AT MYMENSINOH
PRINCIPAL SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                         MY      -        I        I        I        I        1          5    57.758        -    57.8       57.8      57.8    57.8    57.8    288.8          -    66.7        73.4        80.5      88.2      96.3        405.1
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                                   MY      -        2        2        2        2        2         10    53.228        -   106.5    106.5    106.5   106.5   106.5    532.3              -   123.0    135,3         148.4    162.5    177.5          746.7
TECHNICAL SUPPORT STAFF                              MY      -        2        2        2        2        2         10    19.252        -    38.5       38.5      38.5    38.5    38.5    192.5           -    44.5       48,9        53.7      58.8      64.2        270.1
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF                         MY      -        2        2        2        2        2         10    12.457        -    24.9       24.9      24.9    24.9    24.9    124.6          -    28.8        31,7        34.7      38.0      41,6        174.8
Sub-Total SALARIES AT MYMENSINGH                                                                                                           -   227.6    227.6    227.6   227,6   227.6  1,138.2              -   262.9    289.2         317.4    347.5    379.6        1,596.6
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                                                               66.3   603.6  1,200.4  1,739.5 1,925.2 1,925.2  7,460.3   69.6   697.2  1,525.2    2,425.3  2.939,2  3-210.8   10,867.2
r-cJ 
o     0egr



B. VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE /e
I. CHANDPUR
CAR                                               KM     -  12,000  12,000  36,000  36,000  36,000   132,000        0,002       -    26.4      26.4     79.1    79.1    79.1    290.1        -    30.1      32.8       106.5    115.1    124.2        408.7
MICROBUS                                          KM     -  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000    50,000        0.002       -    22.0      22.0     22.0    22.0    22.0    109.9        -    25.1      27,3        29.6      32.0     34.5       148.4
PICKUP                                            KM      -       -  30,000  30,000  30,000  30,000   120,000        0.002      -        -     65.9      65.9    65.9    65.9    262.7        -       -     81.9       80.7       95.9    103.5       370.1
SPEEDBOAT                                                -        -       -        -       -        -         -                 -        -     39.6     39.6    39.6    39.6    158.2        -        -     49.2         53.2     57.5      62.1      222.1
COUNTRYBOAT                                               -       -       -        -       -        -         -                 -        -     79.1      79.1    79.1    79.1    316.4        -       -     98.3       106.5    115.1    124.2        444.1
Sub-Total CHANWPUR                                                                                                                 -    48,3    232.9    285,7   285.7   285,7  1,138.3          -    55.2    289.5       384.6    415.6    448.7    1,593.5
2. KHULNA
CAR                                               KM     -  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000    60,000         0.002      -    26.4      26.4     26.4    24.4    26.4    131.0        -    30.1      32.8        35.5      30.4      40.4      170,1
PICKUP                                            KM     -  15,000  30,000  30,000  30,000  30,000   135,000        0.002       -    33.0      65.9     65.9    65.9    65.9    296.7        -    37.6      81.9        88.7      95.9    103.5       407.7
TRUCK                                             KM     -        -   8,000   Be0,0000 00   8,000    32,000         0.002       -       -      17.6     17.6    17.6    17,6       70.3      -        -     21.8        23.7      25.6     27.6        90.7
MOTORCYCLE                                        KM      -  16,000  48,000  48,000  48,000  48,000   208,000        0.001      -    17.6      52.7     52.7    52.7    52.7    228.5         -    20.1     65.5         71.0     76.7     82.8       316.2
BICYCLE                                           KM     -        -   4,000  12,000  22,000  22,000    60,000        0.001      -        -      4.4      13.2    24.2    24.2      65.9      -        -      5.5         17.7     35.2      30.0       96.3
Sub-Total KHULNA                                                                                                                   -    76.9    167.0    175.0   186,8   186.8    793.3          -    87.8    207.5        236.7    271,S    293.3    1,097.1
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE  /e                                                                                       -   125.3    399.9    461.5   472.5   472.5  1,931.6         -   142.9    497.0        621.2    687,4    742.0    2,690.5   0'
C. OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
1. HATCHERY OPERATIONS
BOAT HIRE                                         DAY    -       36      36      36       36       36       180     0.049       -    30.6      30.6     30.6    30.6    30.6    152.9        -    35.3      30           42.6     46.7      51.0      214.5
PURCHASE OF SPAWNERS AND FRY                             -        -       -        -       -        -         -                 -    19.3      38.5     38.5    38.5    38.5    173.3        -    22.2      4809         53.7    50.8       64.2      247.8
PURCHASE OF FEED                                          -       -       -        -       -        -         -                 -   146.1    291.1    291.1   291,1   291.1  1,310.3          -   168.7    369.8        405.0    444.3    485.4    1,874,0
Sub-Total HATCHERY OPERATIONS                                                                                                      -   195.9    360.1    360.1   360.1   360.1  1,636.5          -   226.3    457,6       502.1    549.0    600.6   2.336.4
2. OFFICE EXPENSES (157 OF INCR SAL AND ALLOWS)              -       -       -        -       -        -         -              10.2    90.6    176.7    252.5   266.1   266.1  1,062.3   10.7   104.6    224.5            3S2.1    406.3    443.0    1,542.1
3  ADMIN SUPPORT AND TRAVEL FOES DEETAILED PLANNI-G                                                                            763,3   624.0         -         -       -        -  1,387.3  001,5   720.7          -,522.2
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                             773.5   910,5    536.8    612.7   626.3   626.3  4.086.1  812.2 1,051.7    682.0            854.2    956.1  1,044.4    5,400.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                 839.7 1,639.4  2,137.2  2,013.7 3,024.0 3.024,0 13,47.0  08BI.7 1,091.8  2,704.2          3,900.7  4,582,7  4,997,2   10,958.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                   039.7 6,461.9 10,757.2 20,927.0 8,293.1 80161.5 71.440,5  081.7 7,612.1 24,701.2   42,191.8 12,268.3 12,989.5  100,644,6
/a EXCLUDES TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR THIS COMPONENT (SEE TABLES 8 1 9).
lb  INCLUDES ARCHITECTS FEES AND SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                        D H
/c  LOCATION NITHIN KHULNA DIVISION TO HE DETERMINED BY DETAILED PLANNING.                                                                                                                                                                                           0 "' 2
/d  DETAILS IN PROJECT FILE NO 3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IHx
/e  FOR BOATS, 3 HOURS PER DAY ONE HUNDRED DAYS
PER YEAR Al 3K120 PER HOOR.



BANOLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
BANGLADESH FORESTRY RESEARCH INSTITUTE /a
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
Quantity                                                             Base Costs                                           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1     2        3       4        5        6     Total    Unit Cost  1        2         2        4        5        6       Total    1       2         3         4         5        6       Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS  /b
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
FIELD STATION STAFF QUARTERS                     SOMTR   -       90     270        -       -        -        360     3.927    -    353.4  1,060.2          -        -         -  1,413.6    -    444.8  1,456.5           -         -         -  1,901.3
WORKERS QUARTERS                                 SQHTR   -       80     240        -                         320     3.927    -    314.1    942.4          -        -         -  1,256.5    -    395.3  1t294.7           -         -         -  1,690.0
LAND LEVELLING                                                    -       -                                    -                     531   ,6.2            -        -         -  2212.2    -    696.0  2,279.4            -         -         -  2,975.4
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING                                                                                        -  1,220.6  3,661.7         -        -         -  408B2.3    -  1.536,1  5,030.6           -         -         -  6,566,7
2, NATIONAL SEED CENTER
BLDG RENOVATION                                          -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -     88.5    110,6         -        -         -    099.1    -    111.4    152.0           -         -         -    263.3
Sub-Total NATIONAL SEED CENTER                                                                                                    -     88.5    110.6         -         -        -    199.1    -    111.4    152.0            -         -        -    262.3
3. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
FIELD STATION STAFF OUARTERS                     SOMTR   -      100    270         -        -       -        450     3.927    -    706.8  1,060.2          -        -         -  1767,0    -    009.5  1,456.5            -         -         -  2,346.0
WORKERS QUARTERS                                 SQOTR   -      160     240        -       -        -        400     3.927    -    628.3    942.4          -        -         -  1,570.7    -    790,7  1,294.7           -          -        -  2,085.4
LABORATORY DUILDINGS                             SOMTR   -      160     240        -        -       -        400     3.927    -    628.3    942.4          -        -         -  1,570.7    -    790.7  1,294.7           -         -         -  2,085.4
STORES                                           SOUTR   -      100     150        -        -       -        250     2,433    -    243.3    365.0          -                  -    608.4    -    306.3    501.5           -          -        -    807.7
Sub-Total TREE BREEDINS AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                          -  2,206.7  3,310,0         -         -        -  5,516,7    -  2.777.2  4,547.3            -         -        -  7,324,5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS  lb                                                                                                            - 3,515.7  7,082.4          -         -        - 10,590.1    -  4,424,7  9,729.9            -         -         - 14,154.5
B. PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT
1, SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
SEED                                              KG     -        5       5        5       5        5         25     5.431    -      27.2      27.2    27.2      27.2      27.2    135.8    -       33.9      36.0     39,7      42.6      45.0    198.8
PLANT PRODUCTION AND PLANTING                     HA     -      200     400      400     800      800      2,600     9.775    -  1,955.1  3,910.2 3,910.2  7,820.3  7,020.3 25,416.1    -  2,442.1  5,298.8  5,710.2 12,276.5 13,180.1 38,913.7
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING                                                                                        -  1,982.2  3,937.3 3,937.3  7,847.5  7,847.5 25,551,9    -  2,476,0  5,335.6  5,749.9 12,319,1 13,231.9 39,112.5
2. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
SEED                                              KG     -        -       2        2       2        2          0     5.431    -          -     I0.9    10.9      10.9      10.?      43.4    -         -      14.7     15.9      12.1      1803      65.9
PLANT PRODUCTION AND PLANTING                     HA     -       40      40       40       40      40        200      1.521    -     60,8      60.8    60.8      60.0      60.8    304.1    -       76.0      82.4     SB.8      9S.5    102.'    441.2
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                          -      60.0     71,7    71.7       71.7     71.7    347.6    -       76.0      97,1    104.7   I12.5    120.9    111.2
Sub-Total PLANTATION ESTABLISHNENT                                                                                                   -  2,043.1  4.009.0 4.009,0  7,919.2  7,919.2 25,099.5    -  2,552.0  5,432.7  5,854.6 12,43;.6 13,352.8 39,623.7
'J, I" -
5
C'Im 
o ,- 



C. MACHINERY , EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE ic
1, SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
SURVEY EUIPENT                                           -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -     16.4         -      8.0        -         -     24.4    -       19.4         -     11.0         -         -      30.3
DEEP TUBEuELL AND PIMP                            NO     -        1       3                                    4    566.25    -    566.3  1,698.8          -        -         -  2,265.0    -    686.7  2,266.2           -         -         -  2,952.9
FURNITURE (5% OF NEU BUILDINGS)                          -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -     32.3      96.8        -        -         -    129.1    -       38.3    123.7         -                         161.9
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING                                                                                        -    614.9  1,795.5       8.0         -        -  2,418.4    -    744.3  2,389.8        11.8          -        -  3,145.2
2. DIOSTATISTICS
DESK COMPUTER                                     NO     -        I                                            1    316,95    -    317.0          -        -                       317,0    -    373.5           -        -                        373,5
Sub-Total BIOSTATISTICS                                                                                                           -    317.0         -        -         -        -    317.0    -    373.5           -         -        -         -    373.5
3. NATIONAL SEED CENTER
LABORATORY EQUIPKENT                                     -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    289.8           -                         -    289.8    -    343.2          -         -         -         -    343.2
Sub-Total NATIONAL SEED CENTER                                                                                                    -    289.8                                           289.8    -    343.2          -                  -         -    343.2
4. TREE NEEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
DEEP TUBEWELL AND PUKP                            NO     -        1       3        -       -                   4    566.25    -    566.3  1,698.B          -        -         -  2.265.0    -    686.7  2,266.2           -         -         -  2,952.9
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                                     -        -       -        -        -       -          -               -    711.1         -        -        -         -    711.1    -    842.3           -        -         -         -    842.3
MINOR EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS                                -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -     40.8         -        -        -         -     40.8    -       49.4         -        -         -         -      49.4
FURNITURE (sz OF NEN BUILDINGS)                          -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    106.6    160.4         -        -         -    267.0    -    126.3    205.0            -        -         -    331.3
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                          -  1,424.7  15.59.1         -         -        -  3,283.9    -  1,704.7  2,471,2            -         -        -  4,175.9      '
5. LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION
CARIOGRAPHY EGUIPYKNT                                    -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    908,9         -08.9    -  1,076.6                                           -     -         -             -  1076.6
Sub-Total LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION                                                                                     -    908.Y         -        -         -        -    908.9    -  1,076.6           -        -          -        -  1,076.6
6. GENERAL SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION
25 KU DIESEL GENERATOR                            NO     -                -        -                           1   406,346    -    406.3          -        -        -         -    406.3    -    4BI.3           -        -         -         -    481.3
16 KW DIESEL GENERATOR                            NO     -        -       I        -       -        -          1   352.879    -         -    352.9         -        -         -    352.9    -          -    451.0         -         -         -    451.0
BOILER                                            NO     -        -       I        -       -        -          1  1,678,5    -          -  16,             -S 1.67                          0.8 -    -   2i145.5          -         -         -  2,i45.5
FREK LIFT                                         NO     -        -       S        -       -        -          1 641.599    -            -    641.6        -        -         -    641.6    -          -    019.9         -          -        -     819.9
BENCH TYPE EXPERIMENTAL ROTOR                     NO     -        I       -        -       -        -          1   320.799    -    320.0          -        -        -         -    320.8    -    380.0           -                                 380.0
OTHER RESEARCH AND LAB EQUIPHENT                         -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    617.0         -        -        -         -    617.0    -    730O.           -        -          -        -    730.0
SPADES                                                   -        -       -        -        -                                  -    106.9    106.9   213.9    213.9    320.8    962.4    -    126.7    136.7    292.4    311,9    498.9  1,366.4
Sub-Total GENERAL SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION                                                                                      -  1,451.1  2,780;3   213,9    213.9    320.8  4,979.9    -  1,718.8  3,553.0    292.4    311,9    498.9  6,374.9
Sub-Total MACHINERY , EQUIPKENT AND FURNITURE  /c                                                                                    -  5,006.4  6,434.9   221.9    213.9    320.8 12,197.9    -  5,961;1  8,414.0    303.3    311,Y    498.9 15,489.2
D. VEHICLES
1. SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
PICKUP                                                            2       2        -       -        -          4   476.565    -    953.1    953.1          -        -         -  1,906.3    -  1,070.7  1,151.2           -          -        -  2,221,9
MOTORCYCLE                                               -        2       2        -        -       -          4    23.692    -      47.4      47.4        -        -         -     94.8    -       53.6     58.0         -                         111.6
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING                                                                                        -  1,000.5  1,000;5         -        -         -  2,001.0    -  1,124,3  1,209.2                                   2,333.5
2. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
PICKUP                                                   -        2       3        -       -                   5   476.565    -    953.1  1,429.7          -        -         -  2,382.8    -  1,070,7  1,726.8           -          -        -  2,797.5
MOTORCYCLE                                               -        4       6        -                _         10    23.692    -      94.8    142.1         -        -         -    236.9    -    107.2    174.0                -              -    281,2
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEEDt ORCHARD                                                                                         -  1,047.9  1,571.8         -        -         -  2,619.7    -  1,177.9  1,900.7           -         -            3,070.7
-u i D
I@1



3. LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION
PICKUP                                                            1       -        -                           1   476,565    -    476.6          -       -         -         -    476.6    -    535.4           -        -         -         -    535,4
Sub-Total LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATIDN                                                                                     -    476.6                  -                  --   476.6    -    535.4           -         -                       535.4
4, GENERAL SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION
PICKUP                                                            2       -        -       _        _         2   476,565    -    953,1           -       -         -         -    953.1    -  1,070.7           -        -         -         -  1,070.7
NINIBUS                                                           1       -                                        582,236    -    582.2             5-        -              -     82.2    -    654,0           -        -         -         -    654.0
Sub-Total GENERAL SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION                                                                                      -  1,535,4         -        -        -         -  1,.35.4    -  1,724.7           -        -         -         -  1,724.7
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                   -  4,060.3  2,572.4         -         -        -  6t632.7    -  4,562.3  3,109.9            -         -        -  7,672,2
Total INVESTINENT COSTS                                                                                                                 - 14,625,5 20,098,7 4,230,9  8,133,0  8,240.0 55,328.1    - 17,500.1 26,686.5  6,157.9 12,743,5 13,851.6 76,939,6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLONANCES
1. SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
JUNIOR RESEARCH OFFICER                          MY     -        I       I        I       1        1          5     40.77    -      40,8      40,8    40.8      40.0      40.0    203.9    -       47,1     51.8      56.8      62,2      68.0    286.0
FODREHAN                                         MY     -        4       4        4        4       4         20    33,975    -    135,9    135.9   135,9    135.9    135.9    679,5    -    157.0    172.7    189.5    207,5    226.6    953,2
DRIVER                                           MY     -        1       4        4       4        4         17    12,457    -      12.5      49.0    49.0      49,8      49.8    211.8    -       14,4     63.3      69.5      76.1      83,1    306,3
UNSKILLED LADOR                                  MY     -        2       a        8       a        a         34    10.192    -      20.4      81.5    81.5      81.5      81.5    346.5    -       23.5    103.6    113.7    124,5    136,0    501.3
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTINU                                                                                       -    209.5    308.0   308.0    308,0    308.0  1,441.7    -    242.0    391.4    429.5    470.3    513.7  2,046.8
2. BDIOSTATISTICS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
COMPUTER OPERATOR                                NY     -        I       1        2       2        2          8    33.975    -      34.0      34.0    68.0      68,0      68.0    271.8    -       39.2     43.2      94.7    103.7    113.3    394.2        *'
Sub-Total DIDSTATISTICS                                                                                                          -     34,0      34.0    68.0      68.0      68.0    271.8    -       39.2      43.2     94.7    103.7    113.3    394.2
3. NATIONAL SEED CENTER
RESEhRCH ASSISTANT                               NY     -        I       I        I       I        1          S    39.630    -      39.6      39,6    39.6      39.6      3Y.6    198.2    -       45.      50.4     55,3       60.5     66.1    278.0
CLERK                                            MY     -        I       I        1        1       1          5    12,457    -      12.5      12.5    12.5      12.5      12,5      62.3    -      14.4      15.8     17.4      19.0      20.8      87,4
Sub-Total NATIONAL SEED CENTER                                                                                                   -     52,1      52,1    52.1      52.1      52.1    260,5    -       60.2      66.2     72.6       79,5     86,9    365,4
4. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
JUNIOR RESEARCH OFFICER                          NY     -        I       I        I       I        1          5     40.77    -      40.0      40,8    40.8      40.0      40.0    203.9    -       47,1     51.8      56.8       62,2     68,0    286.0
FIELD INVESTIGATOR                               MY     -       10      10       10       10      10         50    33,975    -    339.8    339.8   339.8    339,8    339.8  1,698.8    -    392.4    431.7    473.7    518.7    566.6  2,383.0
CLERK                                            MY     -        5       5        5       5        5        25    12,457    -       62,3      62,3    62.3      62.3      62.3    311.4    -       71,9     79,1      86.8      95,1    103.9    436,9
DRIVER                                           NY     -        2       5        5       5        5         22    12,457    -      24.9      62,3    62.3      62.3      62.3    274,1    -       28,8     79.1      86.8       95.1    103.19    393.7
UNSKILLED LABOR                                  MY     -       10      10       10       10      10         50    10.192    -    101,9    101,9   101.9    101.9    101.9    509,6    -    117.7    129.5    142.1    155.6    170.0    714,9
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                         -    569;6    607,0   607,0    607,0    607.0  2i997,7    -    657,9    771,2    846,3    926,7  1,012,3  4,214,5
5. LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION
JUNIOR RESEARCH OFFICER                         HY      -        I       1        I       I        1          s     40,77    -      40,0      40.0    40.0      40,8      40.8    203,9    -       47,1     51.8      56.8      62.2      68.0    286,0
DRAFTSMAN                                        NY     -        1       1        1        1       1          5    33.975    -      34.0      34,0    34.0      34.0      34.0    169,9    -       39.2     43.2      47.4      51.9      56,7    238.3
FIELD INVESTIGATOR                               NY              I       I        I       I        1          5    33.975    -      34.0      34,0    34.0      34,0      34.0    169.9    -       39.2     43.2      47.4      51.9      56,7    238,3
DRIVER                                           MY              I       1        1        1       1          5    12.457    -      12.5      12.5    12.5      12.5      12.5      62.3    -      14.4      15.0     17.4       19.0     20.0      87.4
Sub-Total LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION                                                                                    -    121.2    121.2   121.2    121,2    121,2    605.9    -    140,0    154.0    168.9            185.0    202,1    850.0
Sub-Total INCRENENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                                                       -    986,4  1,122.3 1-156.3  1,156.3  1,156.2  5,577.6    -  1,139.3  1,425,9  1,612.1   1,765.3  1,928,4  7,870.9
(o -EX(



B. VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
1. SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                KM     -  20,000  80,000  00,000  80,000  80,000   340,000         0.002    -      43.9    175.8   175.0    175.8    175.8    747.1               50.1    218.5    236.7    255.0    276.1  1,037.1
MOTORCYCLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE             KM     -  10,000  40,000  40,000  40,000  40,000   170,000         0.001    -      11.0      43,9    43.9      43.9      43.9    186.8    -       12.5     54.6      59.2      63.9      69.0    259,3
Sub-Total SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING                                                                                       -     54.9    219.7   219.7    219.7    219.7    933.9    -          62.7    273.1    295.0       319.7    345.1  1,296.4
2. BIOSTATISTICS
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                KM     -   1,000   1,000   1.000   1,000   1,000        5,000      0.002    -       2.2       2.2     2.2       2.2       2.2     11.0    -        2.5      2.7       3.0        3.2      3.5      14.8
Sub-Total BIOSTATISTICS                                                                                                          -       2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2       2.2     ,llO    -        2,5       2.7      3.10       3.2      3.5      14.8
3. NATIONAL SEED CENTER
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                KM     -   5,000   5,000   5.000   5.000   5,000    25,000         0.002    -      11.0      11.0    11.0      11.0      11.0     54.9    -       12.5     13.7      14.8       16.0     17.3      74.2
Sub-Total NATIONAL SEED CENTER                                                                                                   -     I1.0      11.0    II,0      l1.0      10.0      54.9    -      12.5      13.7     14.8       16.0      17.3     74.2
4. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
VEHICLE DPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                KH     -  40,000 IOO,000 IOO OOO   IOO.ooo 100,000   440,000       0.002    -      87.9    219,7   219,7    219.7    219.7    966,9    -    100,3    273.1    295.8           319.7    345.1  1,334.0
MOTORCYCLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE             KM     -  20,000  50,000  50,000  50,000  50,000   220,000         0.001    -      22.0      54.9    54.9      54.9      54.9    241,7    -       25.1     6803      74.0      79.9      86.3    333.5
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                         -    109,9    274,7   274,7    274.7    274,7  1,208.6    -    125.4    341.3    369.8    399.6    431.4  1,667.5
5. LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION
UEAICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                KM     -  20,000  20,000  20,000  20.000  20,000   100,000         0.002    -      43.9      43.9    43.9      43.9      43.9    219.7    -      50.1      54.6      59.2       63.9     69.0    296.9
Sub-Total LAND CAPABILITY SITE CLASSIFICATION                                                                                    -     43,9      43.9    43,9      43.9      43.9    219.7    -       50,0     54.6      59,2       63.9     69.0    296.9
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                               221.9    551.6   551.6    551.6    551.6  2,420.2    -    253.2    685.4    742.5           002.5    866.2  3,349,9    <,
C. OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
1. SPECIES INTRODUCTION AND TESTING
PUMP OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                  HOUR    -   1,000   6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000    25,000         0.063    -      63.4    380.5   380.5    380.5    380.5  1,585.5    -          73.3    403.5    530.5       580.9    634.6  2,302.8
Sub-Total SPECIEG INTRODUCTION ANM  TESTING                                                                                      -     63.4    380,5   380.5    380.5    380.5  1,585.5    -          73.3    483.5    530.5       580.9    634.6  2,302.8
2. TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD
SEED COLLECTION                                  MD     -   1,000   1,000   1,000   1.000   1,000        5,000       0.04    -      39.6      39.6    39.6      39.6      39.6    198.2    -       45.8     50.4      55.3       60.5      66.1    278.0
MATERIALS                                               -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -     11.3      11.3    11.3      11.3      11.3     56.6    -       13.1     14.4      15.8       17.3      10.9     79.4
PUMP OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                  HOUR    -   2,000   7,000   7,000   7.000   7,000    30,000         0.063    -    026.8    443.9   443.9    443.9    443.9  0,902.6    -    146,5    564.0    619.0             677.8    740.4  2,747.6
Sub-Total TREE BREEDING AND SEED ORCHARD                                                                                         -    177.0    494.9   494.9    494.9    494.9  2,157.4    -    205.4    628.8    690.0            755.6    825.4  3,105.1
3. GENERAL SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION
JOURNALS                                                                                                                      -    385.0    385.0   3855.0    3.05,     305.0  1,924.B    -    456.0    492.0    526.3          561.4    598.6  2,634.2
PRINTING COSTS                                          -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    320.8    320.8   320.8    320.8    320.0  1,604.0    -    380.0    410.0    438.6            467.0    490.9  2,175,2
Sub-Total GENER1L SUPPORT AND REHABILITATION                                                                                     -    705.8    705.8   705,8    705.8    705.8  3.528.8    -    835,9    901.9    964.8   1.029.2  1,097.5  4029.3
4. Ofil   EXPENSES 105I OF INCR SAL AND ALLOHSI            -        -       -        -       -        -          -               -    148.4    168.7   173.3    173.3    173.3    036.9    -    171.4    214.4    241.6            264.5    209.0  1.180,8
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                               -  1,095.3  1,749.9 1,754,5  1,754.5  1,754.5  8,108.6    -  10205.9  2,228,5  2,426.9   2,630.2  2,046.4 11,418.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                   -  2,303.7  3,423.8 3,462.3  3,462.3  3,462.3 16,114.4    -  2,678,4  4,339.9  4,781.6   5.197.9  5,641.0 22,638.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                     - 16,929.2 23,522.5 7,693,2 11,595,3 11,702.3 71,442.5    - 20,178.5 31,026.4 10,939.5  17,941.4 19.492.6 99,578.4
/a  EXCLUDES TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR THIS COMPONENT (SEE TABLES 8 t 9).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -.
/b  INCLUDES ARCHITECTS FEES AND SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.
/c DETAILS IN PROJECT FILE NO. 4.0



BANGLAD)ESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
STAFF DEVELOPNENT AND TRAINING
Dietailed Cost Table
(TA6A 000)
Quantity                                                             Bose Custs                                               Totals Iocluding    Continlencies
Uniti1    2         3       4       1      6    Total   Usiit Costi           2         3         4         1          6      Total      1      2          3         4            5         6        Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
1. DEGREE FELLOWSHIPS
LOCAL PHD                                              MY    -       33      33      33      16      -      Ill    53.928    -  1,779,6  1,779.6  1,779,6    162,9                -  6,201.9         2,23,1I  2.431,B  2,640.7         1,384.8          -    B,696.4
LOCAL NSC                                              NT    -       24      24      24      24     24      120      27,18    -    652.3    652.3    652.3    612.3    652.3  3,261.6    -              28.8    911.6  1,000.4         1,091.1  1,196,7    1,033.0
IN ASIA P08                                            NY    -        7       7       7      3        -      24   340,193    -  2,381.4  2,381.4  2,381.4  1,020.6                -  8,164.6    -2,939,6  3,157,7  3,357.0             1,525.4          -   10,980,6
IN ASIA NSC                                            MY    -        a           8          0       8       40   348.645    -  2,789,2  2,789.2  2,789.2  2,709.2  2,789.2 13,941.8    -3,443,0  3,698,5  3,932.9                     4,168.9  4,4904    19,662.3
OTHER PHD                                              NT    -        7       7       7       3       -      24   426.826    -  2987.8  2,987.8  2,987.8  1,28005                   10,243.8    -3,688.2  3,961,9  4,213.0             1,913.9          -   13,776,9
OTHER NSC                                              NT    -        1       1       -       -      -       10    443.73    - *2,218.6  2,211.6             -          -         -4,437.3    -2,738.7  2,942,0                 -             -         -    1,680.7
Sob-Total DEGREE FELLOWSHIPS                                                                                                       - 12.000,9 12,808.9 10,190.3  6,681.4  3,441.1 46,214.9    -15,873,4 17,107.5 11,144.8    10,088.1  1,611.7   63,829.9                     '
2. NONDEOREE INSERVICE TRAINING
RESEARCN PLANNING AND EVALUATION                       mm    -        -    200    200    200         -      600      1,132    -          -    226.1    226.1    226.1             -    679,5                -    316,5    347,4          380.4          -    1,044,3
SHGRT TERN TRAINING                                    MMH    -       -      33      61     33      17      144      63,39    -          -  2,091.9  3,066.8  2.091,9  1,077.6  9,128.2    -                -  2,773,9  1,452,4        3,126.7  1,707,3   13,060.3
Sub-Total NONDEGREE INSERVICE TRAINING                                                                                             -         -2,310.4  4,093.3  2,318.4  1,077.6  9,807.7            -         -3,090,4  5,799,9           3,107.8  1,707.3   14,104.6
3. CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROFESSIONAL STAFF
SABBATICAL STORIES                                     HTY           36      36      36      36     36      100      22.65    -    015,4    011.4    011,4    011.4    811.4  4,077.8             -  1,036.0  1,139,6  1,210.1         1,369.3  1,491.8    6,291,2
STUDY TOUIRS                                          Nmm            60      60      60     60      68      300      63.39    -  3,803.4  3,803.4  3,803.4  3,803,4  3,003.4 19,017.0    -  4,695,0  1,043.4  5,363,1                  1,684.8  6,021.9   26,812.2
Sob-Total CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROFESSIONAL STAFF                                                                                    -  4,618.8  4,610.8  4,610.0  4,619.0  4,610.0 23,094.0               5 ,738.0  6,102,9  6,613,6        7,014.2  7,121.8   33,103,4
4. CAREER DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT STAFF
LOCAL SCHOLARSHIPS                                     NTY          120    120    120    120    120         680      4.077    -      489.2    409.2    409.2    489.2    499.2  2,446.2                 621.6    683,7    750,3           821.6    097.1      3,774,7
FOREIGN STORY                                          MY    -        -   12.5   12.1   12,1   12.1          10   177.492    -           -  2,218,6  2,210.6  2,210.6  2,210.6  0,074.6    -                -  2,942.0  3,128,4        3,316.2  3,5151,    12,901,7
DARE TRAINING GRANTS TO INSTITUTIONS                   NY    -        -      21      21     21      21      100      4,077    -          -    101.9    101.9    101.9    101.9    407.7    --    142.4    116.3                           171.2     187.0        616.9
Sob-Total CAREER DEVELWNENT SUPPORT STAFF                                                                                          -    489.2  2,809.0  2,009.8  2,009.8  2,809.0 11,720.15                621.6  3,768,2  4,031,1         4,308.9  4,199.6   17,333.4
1. CONFERENCES , SENINARS , WORKSHOPS                      No           to1    10       80      10      10       18       45.3    -    413.0    413.0    413.0    413.0    413.0  2,261.0                  5 75,1    633.1    694,7          760.7    831.0    3,491.1
Sub-Total STAFF DEVELOPHENT AND TiRAINING                                                                                             - 18,369.9 23,008.9 22,161.2 16,805.4 12,400,7 93,110.1    - 22,001.1 30,702.0 32,209.1                21,719.3 20,275,4  131,866.4
oo.



B. VEHICLES
HINIBUS                                                 NO    -       I      -       -      -       -        1   582,236    -    582.2          -        -         -         -    582.2    -    654.0          -         -            -                654.0
CAR                                                     NO    -       I                      -               1   364,493    -    364.5          -        -         -         -    364.5    -    409.0           -        -            -         -      409.0
Sub-Total YEHICLES                                                                                                              -    946.7         -         -        -         -    946.7    -  1,063.0          -         -            -              1,063.0
Total IN9ESTHENI COSTS                                                                                                               19i316.7 23,008.9 22,565.2 16,805.4 12,400.7 94,096.8    - 23,B64.4 30,782.0 32,288.1    25,719.3 20,275,4  132,929.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_ ___ _ _ _ _ _
A. INCREHENTAL SALARIES
SENIOR SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                                     -      I       I      i       I      1        5     54.36    -      54.4      54.4     54.4      54,4      54.4    271.8    -      62.0      69.1      75.8         83.8      90,7       381.3
TRAINING OFFICER                                              -      2      2       2       2      2       10    53,220    -    106.5    106.5    106.5    106.5    106.5    532.3    -    123.0    135.3    148.4               162.5    177.5        746.7
OFFICE ASSISTANT                                             -       3      3       3      3       3      15    19,253    -       57.8      57.8     57,8      57.8     57.8    288.8    -       66.7      73.4      80.5         88.2      96,3      405.1
TYPIST                                                        -      2      2       2      2       2       10    12.457    -      24,9      24.9     24.9      24.9     24.9    124.6    -       28.8      31.7      34.7         38.0      41.6       174.8
MACHINE OPERATOR                                             -       I      I       I      1       1       5    12.457    -       12.5      12,5     12.5      12.5     12.5      62.3    -      14.4      15.8      17.4         19.0     20.8        87.4
STENOTYPIST                                                   -      I       I      I       I      1        5    12.457    -      12>5      12.5     12.5      12.5      12.5     62.3    -      14.4      15.8      17.4         19.0      20.8        87.4     -
PEON                                                                 2      2       2      2       2      10    12.457    -       24.9      24.9     24.9      24.9     24.9    124.6    -       28.8      31.7      34.7         38.0      41.6       174.8
Sub-Total INCRENENTAL SALARIES                                                                                                 -    293.3    293.3    293.3    293.3    293.3  1,466.6    -    338.8    372.7    408.9              447.8    489,2    2,057.4
P. VEHICLE OPERAIDNS AND MAINTENANCE
NINIBUS                                                KH    - 10,008 10,080  10,000 10-080 10,080  50.000        0.802    -      22,0     22.0      22.0     22.0      22.0    109.9    -       25.1      27.3      29.6         32,0      34.5       148,4
CAR  UK                                                       - 10,000 10OOO 10,000 10,000 10,800  50,000        0.002    -      22,0      22.0     22.0      22.0     22.0    109.9    -       25.1      27.3      29.6         32.0      34.5       148.4
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATIONS ANDH NAINTENANCE                                                                                  -       ,       s3 43.9  43,1      4S.Y     43.9    219.7    -       50.1      54.6      59.2         63.9      69.0      296.9
C. OTHER RECuRRING EXPENDITURE
OFFICE EXPENSES (157 OF INCR SAL ANO ALLOWS)--                                                                             -      44.2      44.2     44.2      44.2     44.2    220.8    -       51.0      56.1      61.6         67.4      73.7       309.8
Sub-Total OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE                                                                                          -     44.2      44.2     44.2      44.2     44.2    220.8    -       51.0      56.1      61.6         67.4      73.7       309.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                              -    381.4    181.4   321.4    301.4    301.4  1,907,2    -    439,9    483.4    529.7                579.2    631.9    2.664,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                - 19,69S.1 23,390.3 22,946.6 12,186.0 12,782.2 96,004.0    - 24,304.4 31,265.4 32,017.8           26,298.5 20,907.3  135,593.4
lb H ID
IbIx
o C



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT 11
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
(TAKA '000)
Wlactitoi                                                  Base Costs                                           Totaels Iricluding Contingencies
Uniti1   2    3    4  5    6Total UnittCost    1              2         2         4       5        6      Total       1       2         2         4         5        6      Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1, FORESTRY
BIONETRICIAN                                                  Nl     - 3       - - - -             3   262.566        -    707.7          -        -       -        -     787,7        -    09,4                                            8       89.4
SILVICULTURIST                                                NilM             12  12  12   -    36   262,566         -         -  3,150.0 3,150.0 3P15O0,          -  9,452,4         -        -  3,041.5  4,113.8 4,393,1           -12,348.3
LAND USE PLANNER                                              Nil        3      -   3   -   2      9   262.566         -    707.7         -   707.7         -   707.7  2,362,1         -     89.4         -  1,020.4         - 1,172.4  2,090.3
Sub-Total FORESTRY                                                                                                        -  1,75.4  2,110.0 3,920.5 2,150.0   707.7 12,602,2                1770.0  3,041,5  5,142.2 4,292.1 1,172.4 16,3280,
2, LIVESTOCK
RESEARCH PLANNING SPECIALIST                                  Nil    1   2     2   1   1   1       0   262,566   262.6    525.1    525.1   262.6  2162,6   262.6  2,100.5   273,4    592,9    640,2    342,0   266.1   290.8  2r606.3
FARNING SYSTENS SPECIALIST                                    Nil    2   2      3   2   2   2    12    27.746    55.5        55.5      82.2    55,5    55,5    55.5    360.7    50.2         64,1    105.0       77.4    84,7    92.5    482.7
ANINAL NUTRITIONIST                                           Nil    1   2      1   1   1   1      7    27.746    27.7       55.5      27,7    27.7    27,7    27.7    194,2    29.1         64.1      35.2      20.7    42.4      46,3    255.0
FODDER CROP PRODUCTION SPECIALIST                             Nil    1   2      1   1   1   1      7   262.666   262,6    525.1    262.6   262.6   262.6   262.6  1,020.0   272,4    592,9    220,1    342,0   366.1   290,0  2,206,2
ANINAL HEALTH SPECIALIST                                      Nil    -   -     2   2   2   2       0   262.567         -        -    525.1   525.1   525,1   525.1  2,100.5            -         -    640.2    605.6   722.2   781.6  2,039.7
LIVESTOCK ECONONIST                                           Nil    1   2     2   1   1   1       0    27.746    27.7       55.5      55.5    27.7    27.7    27,7    222.0    29.1         64.1      70,5      20.7    42.4    46.1    291.0
DETAILED PLANNING-LOCAL                                       Nil    4   2      -   -   -   -      6    27.746   1l1.U       55.1         -        -        -       -    166,5   116.5       64.1         -         -        -        -    100.6
DETAILED PLANNING-EXPAT                                       MNi    4 2.5      -   -   -   -   6.5   262.566 1,050.3    656,4            -        -        -       -  1,706,7 1,093.7    741.2-                    - -               -  1,034.8
LIVESTOCK SURVEY                                              hNi    -  50   100 - - -   150    27,746                 -  1,307.3  2,774,6         -        -       -  4,161.9         -  1,02.2  3,525,2                    - -      -5,27,5
Sub-Total LIVESTOCK                                                                                                1,797,4  3,316.0  4,253,9 1,161.3 1,161.3 1,161.3 12,051.0 1,072.6  3,701.0  5,237.3  1,526.0 i.62330  1,748,3 15f904.7
3, FISHERIES
RESEARCH PLANNING SPECIALIST                                  Nil    1   2      2   0   1   1      0   262,566   262.6    525.1    525,1   262.6   262.6   262.6  2,100.5   273.4    592,9    640.2    342,8   366,1   390.0  2,606.3
PHONING SYSTEMS SPECIALIST                                    Nil    2   2      2   2   2   2    12   262.567   525.1    525.1    5215.1   525.1   525,l   525.l  3,110,0   546.0    592.9    640.2    605.6   732.2   781.6  3,979.4
FISH NUTRITIONIST                                             Nil    1   2      1   1   1   1      7   262,566   2b2.6    525.1    262.6   262.6   262.6   262,6  1,030.0   273.4    592.9    220.1    242.0   366.1    390.0  2,286,2
FISHERY ECONOMIST                                             Nil    1   2      2   2   1   1      9    27,746    27,7       15.5      55.5    55.5    27.1    27.7    249.7    29.1         64,1      70.5      77.4    42,4    46.3    329.7
RIVERINE CAPTURE FISH SPECIALIST                              KNi    1   2      2   1   1   1      0    27.746    27,7       55.1      5',1    27.7    27,7    27.7    222.0    29.1         64.1      70.5      20.7    42.4      46.3    291,0
DETAILED PLANNING-LOCAL                                       Nil    6   5      -   -   -   -    11    27,746   166.5    130,7            -        -        -       -     301.2   174.0    160.2           -        -        -        -    335,0
DETAILED PLANNING-EXPAT                                       Nil    6   4      -   -   -   -    10   262.567 1,575,4  1,050.3            -        -        -       -2,625.7 1,640.5  1,185,9              -        -        -        -  2r026.4
SPECIAL TOPICS                                                Nil    2   2     0   4   2   2    20   262.567   525.1    525,1  2,100.5 1,050.2   125.1   525.1  5,251,2   546.0    592.9  2,561,0  1,371.2   732,2   701.6  6,505,8
Sub-Total FISHERIES                                                                                                3,372.0  3,400.5  3,524.2 2,103.0 1,630,9 1,620.9 1',743.2 3,114.1  3,846,1  4,302.6  2,050.6 2,2081,2 2,437.3 19,239.9
4. TRAINING
BARE TRAINING SPECIALIST                                      Nil    -  12      -   -   -   -    12   262.566          -  3,150,0         -        -        -       -  2,130.0         -  2,557.7          -                              3577
RESEARCH PLANNING TUTOR                                      NMM    -   4       4   4   - -       12   262,566         -1,050.3  1,050,2 1,050.2            -       -  2,150,0         -  1,105,9  12800,5  1,271.3          -         -3,037,6
Suib-Total TRAINING                                                                                                       -  4,201.1  1,050,3 1,050.3          -        -  6,201.6        -  4,742.5  1,200.5  1,271.2          -         -  7,395.3
5. OTHER
CONTRACT RESEARCH EVALUATION SPECIALIST                       Nil    -   2      2   1   1   1      7   262.567         -    525,1    525,1  2,62.6   262.6   262.6  1,030,0            -    592.9    640.2    342.0   366,1   390.0  2,332,9
LOCAL CONTRACT RESEARCH EVALUATION                            Nil    -   2      2   3   3   -    10    27.746          -     55.5      55.5    03.2    03,2         -    277.5         -     64.1      70.5    116.1   127.1          -    377.7
HEy AND IWPLEN OF DATA RETRIEVAL SYSTEN                       Nil    -  17    19   6  10   9    61    27.746           -    471.7    527.2   166.5  2,77.5   249.7  1,692.5            -    544.0    669.0    222.1   422.6   416.5  2,206.7
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF INPREST ACEr AND CONTRACT RESEARCH          Nil    -   3      2   3   3   3    15    27,746          -      3,2      03,2    03.2    03.12   83.2    416.2           -     96.1    105.0    116.1   127,1   130.0    502.0
Sub-Total OTHER                                                                                                           -  1,135.6  1,191.0   195.5   706.5   595.5  4,224.1            -  1,290,0  1.406.3    007.0 0.043,0   946.1  5,501.2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                        5.170,1 13,620.5 13,17.4 8,929.3 6,649,4 4,175.4 51,723,1 5,307.6 15,412.2 16,240.2 11,705.0 9,352,0 6,304.1 64,449.2
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                     5,170.1~~~~~~~~~~~~----- 13-620.5 13-170.4  --929.2 6-649.4 4,175.4 51,723.1 5-307.6 15-452.2 16,240.2 11,705.0 9-252.0  6,304.1 64,449,2
Total IBASTELNE  COSTS                                                                                                    5,170.1 12,620.5 12,170.4 0,029.3 6,649.4 4,175.4 51,722,1 5,307.6 15,452.2 16,240.2 11,705.0 9t352.0 6,304.1 64,449.2
Total BAELINE COTS                                         5,1701 13,62.5 13,17 .4 8,92,3 6f6494 4,1754 51,7231 5,387.  15,452,  16,2482 11,7050 9,352.  6i304.164Y449.



-72-
Annex 2
Table 10
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bangladesh
Years       IDA Projects    IDA Projects    Agricultural   Bangladesh Agricultural
from       in South Asia   in Bangladesh   Research I         Research II Project
Board      Agriculture      Agriculture       (Cr. 828-BD)   Estimate
Approval   Sector (%)        Sector (%)            %             %             US$ M
Year 1
1 
2          1.0                3.5
3                               -
4          3.7                9.3                             2             .49
Year 2
1            -                  -                -            4             .98
2          7.3               13.7              3.2            6            1.47
3             -                 -. 7.5                        9            2.20
4         12.0               18.3             10.3           12            2.94
Year 3
1            -                  -             17.8           18            4.41
2         17.8               23.5             25.5           25            6.13
3            -                  -             34.7           32            7.84
4         24.4               29.5             37.2           37            9.06
Year 4
1            -                  -             42.0           48           11.76
2         31.8               36.0             56.8           57           13.96
3            -                  -             62.5           63           15.44
4         39.6               42.9             69.0           69           16.90
Year 5
1            -                  -             73.7           75           18.37
2         47.6               50.1             76.7           77           18.86
3             -                 -             78.8           84           20.58
4         55.6               57.4            (83.3) 1/       90           22.05
Year 6
1            -                  -                            94           23.03
2         63.3               64.5            (98.3) 1/       98           24.01
3             -                 -                            99           24.25
4         70.6               71.4           (100.0) 1/      100           24.50
1/ Estimated.



- 73 -                  ANNEX 3
Working Papers
1. Contract Research Grant Procedures
2. Livestock (including Detailed Planning and Technical Assistance TORs)
3. Fisheries (including Detailed Planning and Technical Assistance TORs)
4. Forestry (including Technical Assistance TORs)
5. Training (including Technical Assistance TORs)
Related Documents
6. BARC Information and Data
7. Project Preparation Report
8.  Operating Expenditure for BARI
9. BARI Information and Data
10. The Economics of Agricultural Research in Bangladesh,
BJAE II (2), 1979 by Carl E. Pray
11. Details of Current Contract Research
12. Terms of Reference for:
(a) Research Evaluation Specialists
(b) Development and Implementation of Data Retrieval System Consultancy
(c) External Auditors of Contract Research Grant
13. List of Laboratory Equipment, Machinery and Farm Equipment
14. Draft Project Document on Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute






JL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~9.BANGLADESH                                                                                               92-
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
BARI(Bargl.desh Agricultural Researchr Institute)
ABRRI (Bangladesh Rice Reseaclh Institute)
Toa G-hotiup                             B JRI(Bangladesh Jute Research fInstitute)
-,Dbs                                                                       13   NA) Institute for Nuclear Agriculture)
-26'                                                                                                      0   SRI(Sugar Research Institute)                                             26'-
*TRIITea Research Institute)
''LIVESTOCK STATIONS
llFISHERIES STATIONS
o   SOIL TESTING STATIONS
FACILITIES BEING DEVELOPED UNDER THE PROJECT7
LIVESTOCK  STATIONS
FISHERIES STATIONS
Z FORESTRY STATIONS
ZFORESTRY SEED ORCHARDS
-25'~~~~2
B  0  A  ~     ~      ~     ~    ~          ar/do        nrnuY L HE                                  i ,7~ta
NS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
tarthecananenc atIce-                                                           f         )kh-  B                N
redes4 edi                                       ABNA,ef arth                                                                                                                          24~S
relereatuse at he Wand  ank                        ~PAU~HAFAR
aeThs meap dos beat mp',aed the
paThaeT WWrld Bank' sand texa,l
/elereainal eofinane CWrparaBank                                                             ALIy   /5
any tuhemntemfon. thFtgt -ae
ate any  therncy bany-  sh-U .                                                                                                                                                  (
pearnrnt or h i Baccepance ath
such bonedaries.RAO
Dha                                           ~~~~~~~RAILWAYS      -      -
DIISTRICT BOLJNDARI[ESU
DIVISION BOUNDARIrs
I N  D I                                                         lWr~~~~~~~~~~INERNATIONAL BOUNDIARIES
/  0/ 307/90!  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    02550                                          75 MILES
/   ~~~~oraoarn~~~~~~r                         050                                    100 KILOMETERS
go.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'' )~~~~~~~~~~~RI LANKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



