Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24784-YEM
IMPLENENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25250)
ON A
CREDIT
Dn THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.8 MILLION (USS26.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
September 16, 2002
This document has a reincted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
YER 1.00 = US$ 0.00567
US$ 1.00 = YER 176.51
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPPR                    Country Portfolio Performance Review
FP                      Family Planning
HIS                     Health Information System
ICR                     Implementation Completion Report
IDA                     International Development Association
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
MCH                     Maternal and Child Health
MOPH                    Ministry of Public Health
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
PDRY                    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PHC                     Primary Health Care
PMU                     Project Management Unit
PSR                     Project Status Report
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
SPPR                    Sector Portfolio Performance Review
UNICEF                  United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                   United Nations Population Fund
WHO                     World Health Organization
YAR                     Yemen Arab Republic
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Mahmood Ayub
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader    Sameh El-Saharty



YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
FAMILY HEALTH
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Perfonnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27






Project ID: P0059 10                                      Project Name: FAMILY HEALTH
Team Leader: Sameh El-Saharty                             TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: September 17, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FAMILY HEALTH                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-25250
Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                   Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Health (98%); Central government administration
(2%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/10/1992                             Effective: 01/06/1994         09/13/1994
Appraisal:  05/10/1993                               MTR: 01/06/1997            02/06/1999
Approval:  06/24/1993                              Closing: 09/30/2000         03/31/2002
Borrower/I'mplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MOPH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Mahmnood Ayub                             Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:      Jacques Baudouy                           Douglas Keare (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:  Sameh El-Saharty                          Alfonso de Guzman
ICR Primary,Author:  E. Gail Richardson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to assist the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to implement the
national population policy, articulated in 1991, to reduce fertility and maternal and infant mortality. More
specifically, the original project was to: (i) improve access to and quality of maternal and child
health/family planning (MCH/FP) services within the primary health care (PHC) system; and (ii) improve
management effectiveness in the health sector more broadly. The project had three major components:
strengthening the delivery of PHC services in selected rural areas; strengthening manpower training and
health education; and improving management and logistics. Fertility was to be reduced by providing the
population with appropriately targeted health education information, and the basic means to act on this
information (e.g., through staff training and ensuring that family planning supplies were available at the
lowest level by improving the management and logistics of medical supplies). Maternal and infant
mortality were to be reduced by improving services at the local level and ensuring that appropriate services
were available at the referral level (district hospital).
It is important to note the political context against which this project was prepared. The project was
prepared shortly after the formation of the Republic of Yemen through the unification of the former Yemen
Arab Republic and the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen in May 1990. Clearly the
formation of a new country brings with great opportunities as well as challenges. In particular to the health
sector, it meant developing a sectoral strategy which would bring together two very different health
systems' infrastructure, management, policy, and strategy as embodied in the former Yemen Arab Republic
and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. While the preparation of a national population policy
represented a commendable step forward for the new country, it is to be expected that modifications to this
strategy would be needed as the country's priorities became clearer.
The project's objective was consistent with the International Development Association's (IDA's) strategic
framework for human resource development in Yemen. This framework emphasized support for the
Govermnent's programs to: (i) provide basic education for all school-age children; (ii) provide primary
health care services, particularly those related to MCH; (iii) expand access to basic health and education
services; and (iv) put in place a social safety net for the underemployed and the unemployed (the
nonworking poor in particular).
The objective was also consistent with the priorities identified in the Health Sector Review, conducted in
1992 by IDA in partnership with the Govemnment and key donors in the sector. (footnote: "Republic of
Yemen Health Sector Review", November 2, 1993 [Report No. 11439-YEM; sector report]; The World Bank,
Washington D.C.) The key sector issues identified in the Health Sector Review included: (i) poor access to
basic health services, particularly in the rural areas; (ii) poor quality of the services which were available
due to inadequate infrastructure, equipment, and supplies, and the unavailability of trained staff,
particularly women; (iii) the lack of health education programs targeting key sector needs, such as MCH;
(iv) ineffective management and regulation of medical supplies, including pharmaceuticals; and (v) poor
management of the sector more broadly as a result of the challenges faced by the amalgamation of the
health ministries of the former Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
The objective was therefore consistent with the Government's and IDA's strategy for the sector and was
responsive to the MOPH's development priorities and circumstances.
Although there was consistency with the Government's priorities for the sector and IDA's strategic
framework for human resource development, whether the objective was realistic is questionable. It was
perhaps overly ambitious to expect that a seven-year project would have a demonstrable impact on fertility
- 2 -



and infant and maternal mortality. In addition, it was estimated during project preparation that about one
million people would benefit from the improved access to PHC services. One million out of an estimated
13 million population is not substantial.
The extent to which the objective could be achieved was also challenged by the associated risks. An
analysis of the risks which might hinder achievement of the project objective was done at the time of project
preparation and provisions included to mitigate these risks. (footnote: The principal risks and their mitigation
measures were as follows: (i) a sufficient number of women as health care providers may not be realized
[mitigated by provisions on the number of women who were to be included in the project-financed training
activities, targeted health education messages, and the provision of housing]; (ii) there could be resistance to
implementing the national drug program because of the lucrative black market [mitigated by the expressed
commitment of the Government and donors to implement this program]; and (iii) Government resources tofinance
the cost of maintaining thefacilities and equipment and procuring essential drugs may not be adequate [mitigated
through continued dialogue on the need to allocate additional resources to the health sector and ensure their
effective utilization].) One key risk, however, appears not to have been taken into consideration and that
was the capacity of the Government to effectively implement the project. (footnote: Implementation capacity
was taken into consideration as a lesson learned from previous involvement in the sector and this lesson was
incorporated' into the design of the project's components (i.e., capacity building through training and systems
development [the health information system, research capacity]). The institutional analysis at the time of
project preparation was inadequate. Such analysis would have identified such issues as the cumbersome
clearance procedures of the public sector. Throughout the project (as noted in more detail below), there
were delays because of these procedures which did affect the timeliness and the degree to which project
objective was achieved. In this regard, the analysis of risks and incorporation of lessons learned to support
the achievement of the project objective was deficient. Greater attention should have been paid to the
admninistrative policies and procedures of the public sector and their impact on timely implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As part of the World Bank's retrofitting exercise, the project objective was revised to be "improve the
delivery of health services and management of health resources" (March 1998). The objective was
subsequently modified to be more clear as: improve the delivery of health services and strengthen
management of health resources (November 1998).
The rationale for this modification to the original objective was two-fold: (i) the national population policy
(1991) was no longer the basis for the MOPH's strategic framework. This framework instead was
provided by the five-year plan, and more recently the MOPH's reform program. It was logical then to
remove reference to a policy which no longer provided the MOPH's strategic framework; and (ii) the
Government's strategy for the delivery of services shifted to focus on the referral level, without which the
PHC network cannot properly operate. As part of MOPH's reform program, primary level services were
to be reorganized through a district health system approach. Under this approach, primary level services
were to be supported through partnerships with NGOs, the private sector, communities and donors to be
more responsive to local needs and more sustainable. Government resources were to focus largely on the
services provided in referral level facilities as the cornerstone of the PHC network. The mid-term review
mission (February 199)9) confirmed that since the overall goal of the project (reducing fertility and
improving maternal and child health) had not changed and since the revised objective was not significantly
different than the original, resubmission of the project to the Board was not warranted.
The objective was further modified to be to improve the delivery of health services in the seven project
districts and strengthen management of health resources more broadly. The rationale for this modification
was that a reference to the seven project districts more accurately reflected the scale of the impact the
project was to have on the delivery of health services (i.e., the impact on the delivery of health services was
- 3 -



not expected to be sector-wide given that the down-sized project inputs focused primarily on the project
districts).
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of the foUlowing three components:
(1)    Strengthening the delivery of PHC services (US$14.0 million): The aim was to improve the quality
of PHC services, particularly MCH/FP services, in selected rural areas (seven project districts). This was
to be achieved through three main activities: (i) upgrading the services in district hospitals and PHC
facilities; (ii) strengthening management through the introduction of management teams which would
support and supervise the services provided at the PHC facilities; and (iii) pilot activities to explore
alternative means of delivering services to the extreme periphery.
(2)    Strengthening training and health education (US$3.7 million): This component was intended to
improve the quality of services nation-wide by supporting targeted training and health education activities.
The training program was to include strengthening pre-service training (upgrading the health manpower
institutes which train paramedical staff), continuing education (establishing training and supervision teams
in the seven project districts to provide ongoing training to staff in PHC facilities), and induction training
(orienting newly assigned staff to issues particular to PHC). The health education activities targeted
maternal health issues. (footnote: This component was designed to complement the efforts of other donors in the
sector who were also supporting the development of health messages to address key sector priorities: the United
Nations Children's Fund [UNICEF] - child survival, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) - family
planning, and the World Health Organization [WHO] - PHC.) The project was to support strengthening
health education program development at the central and govemorate levels to ensure that the messages
more accurately reflected the local needs and priorities, and were more socially acceptable (e.g., prepared
in the local dialect).
(3)    Improvement of management and logistics (US$12.5 million): This component was to improve
management of the health sector nation-wide by supporting key interventions, including the development of
a health information system (HIS), strengthening the management of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies,
and development of a sustainable maintenance system. The HIS interventions were designed to create a
unified HIS following the formation of the Republic of Yemen. The project was to support the expansion
of the manual HIS at the sub-govemorate level, and introduction of a computerized HIS at the governorate
and central levels. (footnote: The HIS interventions were based largely on the detailed plan prepared by the
Government and WHO for the development of a unified HIS which was to supersede the health information
systems of the former PDRY and YAR, and the scattered HlS programs which had been put in place by various
donor agencies. The manual HIS had been piloted in select governorates under the WHO program, and therefore
the project was to support the expansion of this pre-tested information system.)  The management of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies was to be strengthened through the development of inventory control
systems and warehouse rehabilitation. To enable the MOPH to better respond to maintenance requests,
particularly at the PHC level, the project was to support systems development for the central and
govemorate workshops. This component also included activities for research and project monitoring and
procurement management.
The project components supported the achievement of the project objective.  It is expected that
implementation of the project activities would lead to "improved access to and quality of MCH/FP services
and improved management of the sector more broadly". One could argue that this original objective was
fairly broad, and therefore any number of activities could reasonably have supported its achievement.
However, the selection of the specific project activities was based on an analysis of the key inputs required
-4 -



at the time of project preparation. The project design also allowed for some flexibility to ensure that the
project continued to support the Government's strategy for the sector throughout implementation. For
example, during preparation a set of criteria for selecting the facilities to be rehabilitated under the project
was developed and agreed upon so that at the time of implementation, the priority facilities at that time
could be selected. In hindsight, this meant delay in implementation of the civil works activities. However,
it seems reasonable to choose facilities when the resources are available for the work rather than selecting
them and then having the work put on hold until the credit became effective.
As noted previously, the capacity of the implementing agency to carry out the project was taken into
consideration as a lesson learned from previous projects in the sector, which in turn influenced the project's
management structure. (footnote: The lessons learned which were incorporated into the project design
included. (i) the need to incorporate project management into the existing management structure of the MOPH
rather than having implementation being managed by a unit outside of the MOPH mainstream management
structure; and (ii) that the involvement of a number of donors in one project complicates implementation. Under
the Family Health Project, the activities of other donors were taken into consideration to avoid overlap, and the
methodology for the selection of priority districts was made available should other donors wish to support the
sector on the basis of objectives similar to those of the project) However, the capacity to effectively supervise
interventions in the seven project districts was not adequately addressed, although accessibility to project
sites was one of the criteria applied for the selection of project districts. In the end, it proved very difficult
for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the central MOPH to supervise the project district activities
because they were scattered throughout the country in difficult to access areas. One other area in which the
project design was deficient was in the introduction of district management teams and training and
supervision teams in the project districts. The proposal for these two teams was lacking in two respects: (i)
the project timeline called for their introduction early in project implementation, which would have meant
that they would have been introduced before the other interventions to improve the quality of services had
been provided (training, infrastructure improvements, and essential supplies) and therefore would have had
little to work with; and (ii) although the teams were to be provided with basic materials (e.g., a vehicle for
transport and training materials), the project design did not include reference to the other expenses
associated with their work (funds for petrol, per diems, etc.), without which the teams would not have been
able to operate. In the end, these teams were not put in place since it was decided to wait until some of the
other quality inputs had been introduced, and by this time it was too late in the project cycle. In addition,
the MOPH decided that this approach was not consistent with their health sector reforn program.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project remained broadly the same throughout implementation. During the initial
stage of project implementation, it was agreed that the focus of the health infrastructure and equipment
investments would be on the district hospital level and to a lesser extent the health center level which were
considered more sustainable and without which the PHC level facilities could not effectively operate.
(footnote: Based on this change, the title for this component was changed from "Strengthen the delivery of PHC
services" to "Strengthen the delivery of health services in the seven project districts" to more accurately reflect
the scope of the interventions.)
During the mid-term review (February 1999), it was agreed that the scope of a few of the interventions
would be simplified and scaled back to be implemented on a pilot basis (e.g., the HIS, health education, and
maintenance program interventions) due to the limited time remaining for implementation. (footnote: In
fact, additional cuts to the project were recommended during the mid-term review, however these were met by
strong resistance from vested interests) Support was provided to the establishment of the Drug Fund, a
semi-autonomous entity designed to assume responsibility for the management of medical supplies. The
Fund was created as part of the MOPH's health sector reform program. The design of the Fund allows for
the provision of financial incentives based on the success of the Fund's ability to ensure that adequate
- 5 -



supplies are available at all levels of the health system. It was further agreed that two smaller components
of the project (i.e., strengthening referral systems management and the pilot program for expanding services
to the rural population) would be dropped because they were no longer consistent with the sector's and
project's approach. At this time, it was also agreed that funds would be allocated to support the
development of the MOPH's health sector reform program in response to the Government's request and to
ensure that IDA was involved in the development of what has become the strategic framework for the
sector. Such support financed activities of the MOPH's Health Sector Reform Support Unit and a team of
international consultants to work with local counterparts on a number of key sectoral priorities (e.g., the
development of a manpower development strategy, health financing and effective use of resources). These
health sector reform activities provided the basis for the MOPH's reform program, as well as the
IDA-financed Health Reform Support Project (expected to be effective in October 2002).
In addition, continued development of the maintenance program was dropped from the project during the
final stage of implementation because of lack of ownership (due largely to the rapid tumover of key staff).
In addition, the Dutch Government began a maintenance development program with the Government.
Improving the financing of maintenance programs has also been integrated into the Health Reform Support
Project.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Unsatisfactory
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of project implementation and therefore an
assessment of the project's quality at entry as per the QAG provisions did not occur. The ICR assessment
is that the project's quality at entry in retrospect was unsatisfactory. However, it is important to note that
the status of the project's readiness for implementation was consistent with the status quo at the time of
project preparation. (footnote: According to the minutes of the review meetings on the project, there was
general agreement that the status of project preparation was consistent with the accepted standards for
preparation applied at that time)
The project objective and design were consistent with the Government's and IDA's strategy for the sector
and the issues addressed reflected those identified in the Health Sector Review (1993). In addition, the staff
of the PMU who were experienced with implementing IDA-financed operations were in place since this
same group was implementing the Health Sector Development Project (Cr. 2151). Further, as noted above,
principal risks were identified at project preparation and provisions included to mitigate these risks. Also
as noted above, the lessons learned from previous projects were assessed during project preparation and
taken into consideration during the design of the project and the development of its management structure.
However, despite these positive comments about the project's quality at entry, the ICR team considers the
lack of adequate preparation of a number of activities to be significant, and therefore the quality at entry
rating is unsatisfactory.  This inadequate preparation had a detrimental impact on the pace of
implementation. For example, detailed implementation plans (including terms of reference and the training
plan) were not prepared until the first year of implementation. The specific facilities to be rehabilitated
under the project were also defined after implemrentation began; architectural plans and equipmrent lists
were prepared subsequently. In sum, a substantial number of decisions and activities which could have
been made and finished prior to the launch of the project were not done.
Consideration should have been given to including additional dated covenants and/or conditions of
effectiveness to ensure that key preparatory activities were completed prior to the launch of the project. In
addition, the project evaluation system was inadequate. For example, the achievement of the project's
- 6 -



objective was to be measured in part by the changes to the baseline indicators collected in the project
districts. However, the civil works activities were not completed until the end of the project, leaving
insufficient time to document improvements to the baseline indicators. A more effective and dynamic
evaluation system would have allowed for impact analysis while the project activities were being
implemented.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Improving the delivery of health services in the seven project districts was partially achieved. It is
reasonable to assume that providing facilities with appropriate infrastructure, equipment and staff training
led to improvements in the quality of services provided. In addition, the health education program has been
decentralized to improve the delivery of appropriately targeted messages. However, the monitoring
indicators for these activities were designed to measure the impact after the project interventions had been
completed and since most of these interventions were only recently completed, a measurable impact has not
been noted. Field visits conducted in preparation for the ICR indicate that while there was some
improvement to the services provided, there are problems with the quality of some of the works, not all of
the equipment was allocated as understood by the hospital directors (e.g., some were expecting more beds
while others received too many), and functionality of some facilities remains an issue (e.g., some facilities
report problems with the supply of electricity and water). In addition, most hospital directors report that
training was needed, and not provided, on some of the equipment supplied, limiting the effective use of this
investment. A further issue noted by some hospital directors is that additional resources will be needed to
use and maintain the equipment provided and they have not noted a corresponding increase in resources
from the Government.
Strengthening management of health resources was also partially achieved. On the one hand, the health
reform program will improve the Government's ability to effectively use sectoral resources, and the Drug
Fund has become operational and initial feedback suggests that drugs are available at the facility level and
therefore the inventory system appears to be operational. On the other hand, the accomplishments with
respect to the HIS and maintenance activities were relatively nominal, and the training provided under the
project does not appear to have had a definite impact on management of resources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs by component are being evaluated against the modified project components rather than the
original project components.
Component 1 - Strengthen the delivery of health services in the seven project districts
The district hospitals in each of the project districts were rehabilitated and provided with needed medical
equipment. In addition, one health center was built and equipped. Technical training for medical staff
from the seven project districts and fellowships in particular technical areas were provided. In addition,
technical assistance was provided for manpower development and blood banking. Baseline studies were
also completed in three of the seven project districts.
As noted above (Section 4.1), it is expected that the input investments have lead to quality improvements.
However, also as noted above, there are additional inputs required to strengthen the expected quality
improvements. For example, some of the facilities are not fully functional (requiring water and/or
electricity hookups), and others have not been able to reap the full benefit of the investment (e.g., training
needs to be provided on the use and maintenance of the equipment). It is therefore critical that the
- 7 -



Government continue to support these investmefnts to ensure that all the facilities become fully operational.
Component 2 - Strengthen staff training and health education
Training. Two health manpower institutes were rehabilitated to expand their training capacity and training
equipment was provided. Workshops on curriculum development were held, and training on computers
was provided. Consultancies supported a review/revision of the curricula for paramedical staff, and
definition of training needs.
It is expected that the improvements to the health manpower institutes will support improvements to the
quality of training (e.g., a laboratory and library were added to the Health Manpower Institute in Taiz and
crowding was reduced through the construction of additional classrooms). Also through the project,
curricula were strengthened and manpower trainring needs better quantified. However, there appear to be
notable constraints faced by the health manpower institutes which may jeopardize their effectiveness: (i)
additional equipment is needed beyond what was provided under the project and the quality of some of the
equipment available (including some provided under the project) is poor; (ii) additional revisions to the
curricula need to be undertaken; and (iii) the budget provided to the facilities is not regular in terms of
frequency or arnount. In addition, there is a problem with the job prospects for graduates. Students are
finding it increasingly difficult to secure employment upon graduation.
Health education.  Equipment for the production of health education messages at the central and
govemorate level were procured and staff trained on its use and maintenance. Several consultants were
also recruited to develop the health education program, and fellowships were provided. Decentralization of
the production of health messages has taken place through the provision of equipment and training at the
govemorate level. The National Health Education Center in Sana'a is also better able to support the health
education needs on a country-wide level. In addition, a health education consultant was included in the
health sector reform technical assistance package and the findings of the consultancy were integrated into
the health education activities proposed under the Health Reformn Support Project.
Component 3 - Improve management and logistics
Develop health information system. Construction of office space for the research and health infomnation
departments was completed and needed equipment and training on the use of the equipment provided.
Computers were distributed to govemorates to support computerization of the HIS at the govemorate level
and training provided. Consultants were recruited to develop standardized forms and develop a HIS
training program and masterplan. These HIS standardized forns were printed and training on the forms
provided. Finally, fellowships were provided. As noted above, during the mid-term review, it was agreed
that the HIS activities would be implemented at the sub-govemorate level on a pilot basis. In the end,
further work on this was nominal, largely because WHO launched a program of support for HIS
development and there was a lack of technical leadership in the MOPH.
Research and sector development. Equipment for human resource development, the Health Sector Reform
Support Unit, the Research Unit, and the PMU were procured to make these departments more productive
and efficient. In addition, a consultancy to strengthen financial management of the MOPH was provided.
A comprehensive survey of health facilities was completed, which included a review of infrastructure, the
status of major equipment (e.g., functional, in need of repair), the type of staff posted, and the range of
services provided. The major outcome of this sub-component, however, was development of the health
sector reform program, which provides the MOPH's current strategic framework for the sector. As such,
- 8 -



the activities of the Health Sector Reform Unit, including consensus-building workshops, were supported,
as were fellowships in areas relevant to the health reform program. In addition, a sizable technical
assistance package was financed to work closely with national counterparts to ensure that the reform
program was well defined, consistent with the health needs of the population, and sustainable. The
consultancies resulted in a number of programs/products in key areas, including manpower development,
decentralization, health education, and the role of the private sector in the delivery and financing of health
services.
Development of the phaimaceutical logistics system. Regional medical stores were rehabilitated and a
logistics information system for the medical stores provided. In addition, warehouse equipment and
training for the medical store supervisors was provided. Consultants were recruited to develop the business
plan for the Drug Fund, complete a survey of the medical stores, and conduct an inventory assessment.
The initial operations of the Drug Fund were supported, and fellowships in logistics management were
provided. Finally, the procurement of medical supplies was financed under the project.
The Drug Fund is still in its infancy, and it is therefore difficult to assess the extent to which this new
management and operational structure for logistics management has improved the availability of medical
supplies at the facility level. Several of the district hospitals rehabilitated under the project noted that they
are receiving adequate drugs through the Drug Fund, suggesting that the availability of drugs has
improved. The challenge to changing the status quo with respect to pharmaceutical management (a risk
identified during project preparation) remains as there are strong vested interests hindering change. That
the Governmient was able to pass the legislation required and conceptualize/operationalize the Drug Fund
demonstrates their commitment to improving the availability of medical supplies at health facilities despite
the opposition.
Strengthen procurement management and facilities maintenance. Fellowships in maintenance were
provided, and consultants were recruited to prepare a medical equipment survey. As noted above, most of
the activities under this component were dropped because of lack of ownership due in part to the turnover
of key staff. Maintenance is expected to continue to be strengthened through the maintenance program
being financed by the Dutch Government, and the Health Reform Support Project will support improved
financing of maintenance systems.
Additional activities
In addition, the project financed the rehabilitation of two hospital elevators, a CT scan was procured, and
the final payments for some equipment originally tendered under the Health Sector Development Project
(Cr. 2151) were made.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a modest impact on institutional development along two parameters: (i) strengthening
(through training, capacity building, systems development) existing departments and institutions such as the
Health Education Department, health manpower institutes, and the district hospitals; and (ii) supporting the
creation of new departments and institutions such as the Health Sector Reform Unit and the Drug Fund.
-9-



The institutional development of the project could have been more significant if: (i) there had been a
measurable impact on the quality of services provided in the facilities rehabilitated under the project, (ii)
the benefits to the investrnents in the health manpower institutes had been clear, and (iii) maintenance
systems had been strengthened.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
o   Political context. The formation of the Republic of Yemen brought with it a terrific set of
opportunities for the new country, as well as challenges. In particular to this project, it represented
the unification of two administrations with very different perspectives on health and public health.
In this context, the political leaders were faced with the challenge of developing a national strategy
for the sector.
o   Challenges presented by unification. As noted above, management of the public sector, including
health, was challenged by the unification of the two countries to form the Republic of Yemen. An
entirely new civil service structure, administrative framework, and modus operandi had to be
developed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
o   Lag between project appraisal and effectiveness. The project was declared effective in September
1994, 20 months after the project was appraised (February 1993) and 16 months after the project
was submitted for approval by the Board (June 1993). (footnote: The original credit effectiveness
date was 1/6/94. It was extended to 5/6/94 to meet the effectiveness conditions which were to receive (i)
evidence that the credit agreement has been duly ratified by parliament; and (ii) the legal opinion. The
project was approved by parliament on 6/19/94. However, the effectiveness date was further extended to
8/5/94 due to the political situation which delayed the parliamentary discussion needed to obtain the
legal opinion.  The project became effective on 9/13/94.)  With such delays comes a loss of
momentum, change in leadership and staff involved in preparation, and an inevitable shift in
sectoral priorities.
o   Project preparation. As noted above, preparation of the project did not continue after the project
was appraised and therefore a number of activities which could have been completed before
effectiveness were not completed. The Government and IDA should have ensured that funds were
available and staff designated to continue project preparation.
o   Initial resources. Implementation of the project was initially delayed by the unavailability of
project funds. The initial deposit into the Special Account was not made until September 1995
(one year after the project was declared effective) because of problems with special accounts in
other sectors. During the period September 1994 to September 1995, implementation progressed
slowly because the PMU did not have access to adequate resources to launch the activities from the
Government's coffers. Such resources should have been made available by the Government.
O   Project management. The final phase of project implementation was hindered by the lack of a
project director with appropriate technical qualifications to ensure effective supervision and
implementation. With the departure of the long-serving project director in early 2000, an interim
project manager was appointed and competitive selection for a permanent PMU director began.
This selection process was never completed for several reasons, including the lack of qualified
applicants.
- 10-



*   Qualifications of civil servants. The generally low salary structure makes it difficult for the
Government to attract and retain highly technical staff. It is also common for civil servants to have
a second job in the private sector, which challenges their allegiance and commitment to their civil
servant positions.
*   Low mnorale among civil servants. The first few years of project implementation were hindered by
low morale among civil servants due to rapid inflation and a corresponding deteriorating pay scale.
To address this issue, the Government embarked upon a major economic reform program in
collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IW) and IDA which included reform of the
civil service. In addition, it was agreed that staff of the PMU would be recruited on a contractual
basis and paid salaries competitive with the private sector to ensure that qualified staff were in
place who could be evaluated against their performance.
*   Bureaucratic procedures. As noted in the supervision reports throughout project implementation,
the cumbersome approval and clearance procedures of the Government slowed implementation.
These included the procedures within the MOPH (before a request was released to the other
government agencies), the Ministry of Planning and Development (for all transactions involving
IDA resources), and the Ministry of Finance (for the release of counterpart funds (both allocation
and disbursement)).
*   Changes in sectcral leadership. Although the changes were not frequent, the changes in the
MOPH's leadership over the course of implementation did have an impact on implementation and
the achievement of the objective as there was a tendency of each new administration to want to
modify the project and to not be wholly supportive of activities that had been agreed upon by the
previous administration.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Lack of effective management. The PMU did not adequately supervise the project activities,
particularly those related to civil works. The reasons for this are threefold: (i) there were frequent
restrictions on travel due to security reasons; (ii) it is difficult to get to some of the district hospital
sites, as they are in remote areas and are widely dispersed over the country; and (iii) the PMU
engineering staff felt overwhelmed by the number of tasks and responsibilities they managed on a
day-to-day basis. Being away from the office for field visits compounded their workload upon
their return. However, the fact remains that there was no. regular supervision of the civil works
activities and therefore problems were not addressed in a timely manner, which delayed their
completion.
*   Weak project coordination. The coordination of the project was inadequate along two fronts: (i) at
the central level, e.g., between the PMU and the different MOPH departments involved; and (ii)
between the central and the district levels. For example, the health manpower institutes receive
fimds from the central health manpower institute in Sana'a, however the amount of these funds and
their frequency is not consistent. Similarly, the MOPH has procured equipment for use in the
peripheral health facilities, yet not provided them with corresponding resources to pay for their
operations and maintenance.  An impact of this ineffective project coordination was a lack of
ownership for the project activities by the departments and institutions involved.
5.4 Costs and financing:



The total project costs were US$24.89 million (versus an estimated US$30.20 million at the time of
appraisal). Of this amount, US$24.38 million was financed by IDA (versus the US$26.6 million of IDA
financing estimated at the time of appraisal). There were two amendments to the project financing
arrangements: (i) the disbursement percentages for local training and civil works were increased to
facilitate implementation and reduce dependency on Government resources; and (ii) "project management'
was included as a category of expenditure to facilitate release of funds for day-to-day project management
expenses. (footnote: The disbursementpercentagesfor civil works and local training were increasedfrom 100%
offoreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures to 100% offoreign and local expenditures)
The project experienced implementation and disbursement delays. This was due in part to an unrealistic
implementation schedule (in light of the lack of continued preparation after appraisal), incomplete project
preparation, bureaucratic procedures (inefficient procurement and disbursement procedures), and lack of
availability of counterpart funds. Please see Section 5 for additional information on the factors affecting
implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Although the project did not achieve its objectives and ultimate outcomes, there are a number of outputs
which are expected to be, and should be, sustained. These outputs include the upgraded district hospitals
including infrastructure and medical equipment, the health education programs, the Drug Fund, and the
prototype design of the HIS. These outputs are consistent with the MOPH's health sector reform program
and therefore remain consistent with the sector's strategy. Further, a number of the outputs will continue to
receive support under the Health Reform Support Project, in particular further development of the district
health system approach, including decentralizing operational management, continued development of the
health education programs and health information system (building on the developments of the Family
Health Project) and improved financial management to ensure that adequate resources are available for
operations and maintenance. However a number of the civil works and equipment activities, particularly in
the project districts, require additional support from the Governnent to ensure that the facilities are fully
operational (e.g., staff accommnodations for the Al Wadea Health Center are to be financed by the
Governuent). It is very important that the MOPH follow up on these remaining inputs needed to ensure the
sustainability of the project inputs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The rehabilitated facilities and the equipment purchased are to be made fully operational and maintained by
the MOPH. As noted above, the MOPH's capacity to manage maintenance and the provision of adequate
funds to do so will be supported under the Health Reform Support Project. Development of the district
health system will also support sustainability as management of resources will be decentralized from the
central to the local level, thus ensuring that the services provided are more responsive to the local needs.
Finally, the autonomous Drug Fund is now operational, which is expected to improve the management and
delivery of medical supplies since it has the financial incentives to do so.
Monitoring the sustainability of the project interventions will be picked up under the Health Reform
Support Project since a number of the monitoring indicators for this project are consistent with monitoring
the success of the Family Health Project. Relevant indicators of the Health Reform Support Project
include: increased resources for operations and maintenance, a reduction of selected morbidity and
mortality child and maternal health indicators, and the number of national and sub-national health
education carnpaigns conducted.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory
There were a number of positive characteristics with respect to IDA's performance during project
preparation. The project's design was consistent with the Government's and IDA's strategy for the sector.
The project was also based on the findings of detailed sectoral analysis (the Health Sector Review). The
composition of the project preparation team was adequate and of an appropriate skill mix. Several of the
staff involved in preparalion also participated in the project's supervision, which helped to ensure
continuity of dialogue. In addition, the sector work and project preparation was done in collaboration with
the other key donors in the sector to ensure complementarity with other donor activities.
However, IDA's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory in a number of key areas. As noted
above (Section 3.1), the objective of the project was ambitious, particularly in light of the identified risks.
Further, as noted above (Section 3.5), the project was not adequately prepared. Preparation could have
been strengthened if IDA had worked closely with the Government to ensure that: (i) the Government was
institutionally prepared to support effective implementation (i.e., if an institutional analysis had been
conducted); (ii) Government funds were available to continue project preparation following appraisal (e.g.,
for the preparation of detailed implementation plans, architectural plans, equipment lists); and (iii) an
appropriate monitoring and evaluation system was developed. In addition, guidance on and support for the
specific activities which could have been completed during the post-appraisal/pre-effectiveness phase
should have been provided.
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory
IDA's performance during supervision was unsatisfactory. On a positive note, supervision missions were
launched regularly and there was some consistency in the staffing of the missions to ensure continuity in
dialogue. The supervision teams worked with the Government to introduce changes to the project as
needed to ensure that it continued to meet the sectoral priorities. There were also regular Country Portfolio
Performance Reviews (CPPRs) and Sector Portfolio Performance Reviews (SPPRs) to address the
cross-sectoral issues hindering effective implementation. In addition, day-to-day project management was
transferred to the field once the Country Office became operational. This allowed for more timely response
to Government requests for assistance and facilitated supervision of project activities.
IDA's perfornance could have been strengthened by taking a firmer approach with respect to
implementation of the agreements reached during the CPPRs and, SPPRs. Oftentimes agreements were
reached which were subsequently not implemented or implemented with considerable delay. In addition,
IDA's response to some no objection requests was excessively long on occasion. Furthermore, additional
technical support should have been provided in key areas such as financial management and the preparation
of the equipment specifications. Also, towards the end of implementation, there was some concem that
with the fluctuations in the value of the SDR, funds might not be available to pay for all that had been
agreed upon. IDA should have been more proactive in monitoring the credit resources to avoid such a
situation. Greater attention should have been given to the collection and use of data for monitoring the
project impact. Finally, there is reference to a number of agreements reached between the Government and
IDA (the Country Office) during the final stages of implementation, but insufficient documentation to
confirm the outcome of these agreements. (footnote: Such agreements included a review of the training
- 13 -



activities completed under the project, which was to be completed by stafffrom the Country Office and the PMU,
thefindings of the weekly report which was to be submitted by the PMU's engineer and the corresponding actions
to be taken, and securing the Government's official commitment to finance the inputs required to ensure that all
the district hospitals become operational) To a certain degree, these deficiencies can be attributed to lack of
funds for adequate supervision and lack of effective coordination between the Country Office and
Headquarters, particularly with respect to the project's financial management.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory
In hindsight, the Borrower's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory because preparations for
the project did not continue after the project was appraised. As a result, basic preparatory work did not
begin in earnest until the Special Account was opened and resources for this work made available.
(footnote: As noted in Section 5.2, the initial depositfor the Special Account was not made until September 1995
due to financial issues in other sectors [and therefore out of the control of the MOPH]).  This basic
preparatory work included the development of training plans and the preparation of architectural plans and
equipment lists. The reason for this is that the costs associated with these preparatory project activities had
not been included in the Government's budget and therefore resources were not available from the MOPH.
However, the Government is to be commended for its active involvement in the design of the project.
Committees to work on each technical area of the project were formed and worked closely with the IDA
team to finalize the project costs and interventions which were consistent with the Government's strategy
for the sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory
The Government's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory for two key reasons: (i) prior to
the development of the health sector reform program, there was a lack of strategic direction for the sector.
This meant that there was not a cohesive framework within which the activities could be integrated and
therefore they were largely implemented in isolation of each other; and (ii) there were persistent delays
associated with the Government's review and clearance procedures, which hindered implementation. There
was also excessive involvement of Government agencies outside of the MOPH in technical decisions (e.g.,
the rejection of requests to recruit consultants that had been determined by the MOPH to be needed). It is
recognized that such procedures exist and are very difficult to change. However, the ability of the
Government to implement its programs will continue to be slow until a more effective means of managing
projects is introduced.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory
While the performance of the PMU was marginally satisfactory during most of the implementation period
(given the constraints that they faced), the performance of the MOPH as the implementing agency was
unsatisfactory. The staff of the PMU worked diligently to ensure that implementation was completed in a
timely manner in accordance with IDA's policies and procedures. They made concerted efforts to work
- 14 -



closely with the relevant staff of the MOPH on the programs under their purview and provide support as
needed. As noted above, the ability of the staff to actually implement the project was hindered by the
cumbersome Govenmment clearance procedures and excessive involvement in technical areas by
Government agencies outside of the MOPH. However, greater attention should have been given by the
PMU to supervision of inputs (particularly with respect to the design and implementation of civil works
activities) and to systems development and capacity building. The PMU's perfornance declined in the last
two years of implementation because the MOPH was not able to find a project director with the appropriate
technical qualifications. (footnote: Questions about some of thefinancial management practices by the PMU
have been raised based on the findings of a recently completed review of the statement of expenditure. At this
point, it does not seem appropriate to discuss this report until it has been reviewed by the Government If the
review is accurate, it would appear that the PMU was severely deficient in its management of the project's
financial resources)
With respect to the performance of the MOPH, staff from the MOPH and other key agencies participated
in the Project Steering Commnittee as a vehicle for expediting the decision-making process. In addition, the
MOPH is to be commended for its efforts to finalize the civil works activities and deliver the equipment
during the final year of implementation. However, the implementing agency's performance is rated as
unsatisfactory based on the following observations: (i) changes in administration resulted in requests for
changes to project activities, underscoring the lack of strategic framework for the sector; (ii) greater
attention by the Steering Committee often had to be requested by IDA supervision missions, suggesting that
the MOPH's commitment to effective implementation was not strong; (iii) there were instances of staff
within the MOPH effectively blocking implementation for a number of reasons, and therefore support for
the project was not uniform or universal; (iv) the degree to which related departments were actively
engaged in the project varied largely based on who was the director at the time, suggesting a lack of
ownership for the project from the institution as a whole; (v) commitments have been made (e.g., to finance
some of the inputs as the district hospitals such as staff accommodations and improved access roads) yet to
date little action has been taken, bringing into question the MOPH's commitment to ensure the full
functionality of the facilities; and (v) some payments to contractors and equipment suppliers were
significantly delayed within the MOPH, which resulted in cost increases.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Unsatisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The objective of this section is to provide a useful framework for discussions with the Government on how
these lessons learned can be incorporated into the next phase of IDA's support to the health sector. The
lessons are divided into two sections: (i) those relevant to program development prior to the project's
effectiveness; and (ii) those applicable during program implementation.
Prior to Project EfTectiveness
*   Minimize lag between appraisal and effectiveness. As noted above, there was a significant lag between
the time of project appraisal and project effectiveness. The project should have begun with a review of
the project activities and components in light of the sectoral priorities and circumstances at the time
that implementation was to start.
*   Ensure the availability of counterpart funds before effectiveness. To facilitate the Government's
efforts to continue project preparation prior to effectiveness, the Government and IDA should ensure
that adequate Government resources are available.
- 15 -



o   Consider altemative project management strategies. Given the weak implementation capacity of the
public sector, consideration should be given to the use of altemative strategies/models of project
management (e.g., the use of social funds).
a   Assess the institutional capacity adequately. It is important that when absorptive and implementation
capacity are known to be weak, a careful assessment of the worldoad is critical to avoid serious delays.
The MOPH and the PMU were not adequately equipped to plan the project activities while managing
operational tasks. Greater attention to this issue should have been paid during the design of the project
and its management structure.
o Ensure adequate staffing of the PMU. The staff of the PMU for the Family Health Project were also
managing implementation of the Health Sector Development Project (Cr. 2151) which did not close
until December 31, 1998. Managing both projects proved demanding for the PMU staff. The staffing
of the PMNU should have been bolstered to accommodate the large workload.
o   Develop and apply effective evaluation strategies. Effective evaluation strategies need to be defined
during project preparation and systems put in place prior to project implementation to ensure rigorous
evaluation.  It is particularly challenging to effectively evaluate a program when the activities are
being modified (e.g., the HIS was downsized to be implemented on a pilot basis), however it is
extremely important that one be able to qualify and quantify the impact and outcome of the project
activities.
During Implementation
o   Ensure Govemment commitment. It was clear that there were problems with implementation, and that
a number of these problems persisted for long periods of time (e.g., the delays with clearance of
documents on the part of the Govenmment). However, no one in a leadership position in the MOPH
took the actions needed to effectively address these issues. This suggests a lack of commitment on the
part of the Govemment to the project's effective implementation and therefore its commitment to bring
about demonstrable improvements to the health sector.
o   Pay more attention to the achievement of the project's development objectives. There was a lack of
attention to the achievement of the project's development objectives, as evidenced by: (i) using a
development objective that was over ambitious; (ii) not conducting adequate institutional analysis to
gauge whether the MOPH had the capacity to implement the program; and (iii) not paying adequate
attention to appropriate monitoring to measure the achievement of these objectives. It is important for
all concemed (the Govemment and IDA) to ensure that the objective is realistic, achievable, and
measurable.
o   Allow for some flexibility during implementation. It is clear that priorities and strategies change over
the relatively long period of project preparation and implementation. It is important therefore that
during implementation there is some flexibility to ensure that the program activities continue to support
key sectoral priorities. Such flexibility with this project allowed for the support of the development of
the health sector reform program and the Drug Fund.
o Couple the provision of the medical equipment with training on their operations and maintenance. As
noted above, the effective use of some of the medical equipment placed in the hospitals is hindered by
lack of training on its appropriate use and maintenance. Training should be provided on the use of new
- 16 -



medical technology.
*   Ensure the availability of adequate operating budget. The use of some of the medical equipment will
be jeopardized if funds are not provided to the hospitals for its use and maintenance. Adequate funds
to properly use and maintain the medical equipment should be provided to the facilities themselves.
*   Maintain a balance between investments (hardware) and systems' development (software).  For
example, the project supported improvements to health manpower institutes without doing adequate
analysis of the job prospects for the graduates. Similarly, equipment was provided to hospitals without
adequate consideration of whether the facilities had adequate resources for its effective operation and
maintenance.
*   Involve relevant departments in design and implementation. Some departments were actively involved
in the development of their program activities, and greater results were achieved (e.g., health
education). On the other hand, the maintenance activities were not effectively launched in part due to
the high turnover of key staff.
9. Partner Commenlts
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndlcatoreMatrlx                   P   c    In labst PSR              . sActuaWULtsfEstimate
1. Improve the delivery of health services:
1) Increased number of cesarean sections  Not availab                      Not avalable since all the project district
performed in the project district hospitals and                            hosptals rehabilitated are either not
a reduced ratio of cesarean patients dying                                 operational yet or partiaDy opeatonal.
prior to discharge (statistics available from
standard hospital data set).
2) Behavioral change as a result of health  Not avaDable                   Impact assessments were not conducted by
education in pilot districts (to be measured                               the Health Education Directorate.
through impact assessments).                                               However, many health education campaigns
were carried out (as noted below) that
contributed to an Increase of polio
Immunization coverage to 98 percent and
other EPI coverage to 75 percent.
II. Strengthen management of health
resources:
1) Availability of data generated through the  Not avaiable                Not available as the pilot health information
implementation of the pilot health information                             system was not fully implemented under the
system.                                                                    project.
2) Availability of essential drugs in the district Not avaDable            Formal data Is not available.
hospitals targeted under the project (available
from standard hospital statistics, to be                                    However, site visits conducted during the
applied as a proximate measure of the Drug                                  ICR preparation revealed that availability of
Fund's capacity to improve medical supplies                                drugs has improved in the distrid hospitals
management).                                                               targeted under the project.
Output Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR  -,            ActuallLaibst Estimate
1. Strengthening the Delivery of Health  Not avaiable                      04 distrid hospitals completely rehabilitated.
Services                                                                    0 3 district hospitals essential rehabilitation
works completed.
0 1 health center was built
0 Equipment was provided to all the facilifies
rehablitated/extended.
 Lmited numbers of service providers
trained.
 Blood banking program devebped.
II. Strengthening Staff Training and Health  Not avaiable                   National curriculum developed.
Education                                                                    Rehabilitation of 2 manpower institutes
completed which improved the environment
for paramedical education and training of
about 1000 students/year.
0 Equipment was provided to Health
Education directorate.
0 A number of campaigns were carried out:
-12 polio eradication campaigns;
- social mobilization campaigns for EPI;
- the first hepatitis B immunization
campaign;
- a major campaign to control the rift valley
fever epidemic in 2000;
- six media campaigns to promote girls'
education; and
-18 -



- a weekly 30-minute 1V program.
111. Improving Management and Logistics  Not available                     'HIS and Research Department built and
equipment provided.
 Limited number of staff trained.
O HIS master plan developed and HIS forms
developed.
 Health Sector Reforn (HSR) Unit
established and fumished.
 A number of technical reports to support
HSR were produced on: health manpower,
behavioral change, private sector involvement
In health care, manpower planning, and
health education.
4 regional medical stores rehabilitated and
equipped.
 Drug Fund business plan prepared, and
drugs and medical supplies provided
End of project
* No output indicators were identified during project preparation. The actuaL/latest estimate represents the outputs
noted by the team during ICR preparation.
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)_
A .. ifppraisal .Actual/Latest  Percentage of
,Estimat  -    Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             U-'S$ million  US$ million
1. MCHI/FP Services at PHC                          11.60           14.90           128
2. Training & Health Education                       3.20            2.10            66
3. Health Sector Management                          10.20           4.96            49
4. Activities under Credit 2151 and Project Management               2.86
Total Baseline Cost                                 25.00           24.82
Physical Contingencies                              2.30
Price Contingencies                                 2.90
Total Project Costs             30.20          24.82
Total Financing Required             30.20           24.82
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                     ~~~~~~~Procurement Method;.,
Expenditure Category      ICB        P             ethod          NBF        Total Cost
NCB      ~Other
1. Works                      0.00         8.60          0.50         0.00         9.10
(0.00)       (8.10)        (0.50)        (0.00)      (8.60)
2. Goods                     12.40         0.00          0.50         0.00         12.90
(12.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)      (12.40)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          1.40         0.00         1.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.40)        (0.00)      (1.40)
4. Pilot Activities           0.00         0.00          1.00         0.00         1.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)      (1.00)
5. Studies, Fellowship &      0.00         0.00          3.80         0.00         3.80
Local Training               (0.00)       (0.00)        (3.20)        (0.00)      (3.20)
6. Project Management         0.00         0.00          0.00         2.00         2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                      12.40         8.60         7.20          2.00        30.20
(12.00)       (8.10)        (6.50)       (0.00)       (26.60)
At appraisal, #6 Project Management category was staff salaries and operations & maintenance. There has been
no disbursement under this category. Later Credit Agreement was amended to include Project Management
category.
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                 ~~~~~Procuremehtz Method<
Expenditure,Category      ICB       P                  : 2       NB.F .     Total Cost
NCB         Oth'er-
1. Works                      0.00         9.83          1.33         0.00        11.16
(0.00)       (9.70)        (1.25)       (0.00)      (10.95)
2. Goods                     10.90         0.03          0.00         0.00        10.93
- 20 -



(10.60)        (0.02)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (10.62)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00           1.68          0.00           1.68
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.68)         (0.00)       (1.68)
4. Pilot Activities              0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
__________ __  (0.00)     (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)    ,
5. Studies, Fellowship &         0.00          0.00           1.04          0.00           1.04
Local Training                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.04)         (0.00)        (1.04)
6. Project Managemeint           0.00          0.00           0.21          0.00          0.21
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.21)         (0.00)       (0.21)
Total                        10.90           9.86          4.26          0.00          25.02
(10.60)        (9.72)         (4.18)        (0.00)        (24.50))
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contractced...
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (o
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. -     ; . '        ..      .        ~~~~~~~~Percentage of Ap!' 
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
FIJa:[DA:  Govt.    CoF.   .   IDA      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Gout. _  "
1. Strengthen the Delivery  12.50   1.50                14.50     0.40               116.0  26.7
of Services
2. Strengthen Training and  3.30    0.50                2.10      0.00               63.6    0.0
Health Education
3. Improve Management    10.80      1.60                4.90      0.06               45.4    3.8
and Logistics
4. Project Management                                   2.80      0.06
and Activities under Cr.
2151                  _
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/1993                     S   TTL, Senior Public HS, OA, MS,
CE
AppraisallNegotiation
2/1993                     5    TTL, IS, HRS, PHS, Public
HS
Supervision
1/1995                      3  TTL, HRS, Architect               S             S
6/1995                      1   TTL                              U             S
9/1995                      2   TTL, HS                          U             S
4/1996                      1   HS                                S            S
7/1996                      2   TTL, HS                          S             S
10/1996                     1  TTL, Architect                    S             S
5/1997                      1   TTL                              U             S
2/1998                      4   TTL, Architect, Hospital         U             S
MGT/Finance, HS
5/1998                      2   TTL, PHS                         U             S
10/1998                     3   TTL, FMS, PM                     U             S
5/1999                      2   TTL, HRS                         U             S
10/1999                     7   TTL, Health SM, SHS, 00, IS,     S             S
TA
1/2000                      4   TTL, 00, IS, TA                  S             S
6/2000                      4   SHS, IS, 00, PA                   S            S
10/2000                     2   TTL, IS                          S             S
4/2001                      3   TTL, FMS, 00                      S            S
7/2001                      3   TTL, SHS, PA
11/2001                     2   TTL, PA                          S             U
ICR
8/2002                     3    TTL, HS, OA
TTL: Task Team Leader, HRS: Human Resources Specialist, HS: Health Specialist, SM: Sector Manager,
SHS: Sr. Health Specialist, 00: Operations Officer, FMS: Financial Manager Specialist, PA: Program
Assistant, OA: Operations Analyst, IS: Implementation Specialist, TA: Team Assistant, PHS:
Pharmaceutical Specialist, PM: Portfolio Manager
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparatien              N/A                        173
AppraisalVNegotiation                   N/A                        173
Supervision                            N/A                         502
- 23 -



ICR                                     N/A                         20
| Total                      I            N/A         |              868
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SJ=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
F Sector Policies                     O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Z Physical                            O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Z Financial                           O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Z Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M     0 N   0 NA
Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
J Poverty Reduiction            0 H O SU *M     0 N 0 NA
X Gender                        O H   OSU*M     ON    O NA
a Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       O N O NA
 Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N * NA
I Public sector management            0 H O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
Eli Other (Please specify.)           O H OSUOM       O N   O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
M Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
N Supervision                                       OHS OS       * U    O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
N Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U    O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S     *  U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       * U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Suipporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Yemen, Family Health Project, June 4, 1993 (Report No.
11900-YEM.
2. Aide Memoires/Memoranda of Understanding, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports for
the implementation period.
3. Project status reports prepared by the PMU throughout the implementation period.
4.. "Republic of Yemen Health Sector Review", January 29, 1993 (Report No. 1 1439-YEM; green cover);
The World Bank, Washington D.C.
5. Implementation Completion Report for the Health Sector Development Project (Credit 215 1-YEM),
Republic of Yemen, June 21, 1999 (Report No. 19380).
6. Implementation Completion Report for the Second Health Development Project (Credit 1972-YEM),
Yemen Arab Republic, (June 13, 1996), (Report No. 15725).
7. Project Appraisal Document for the Health Reform Support Project (Project ID P043254).
-27 -















IMAGING
Report No.:        24784
Type:    ICR



