Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11900-YEM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
June 4, 1993
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Yemeni Rial (YR) 12.00
YR 1.00 - US$0.08
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DG          Director-General
DMT         District Management Team
DPS         Directorate of Purchasing and Storage
HIS         Health Information System
HMI         Health Manpower Institute
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Agency
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
MOPD        Ministry of Planning and Development
MOPH        Ministry of Public Health
PCC         Project Coordinating Committee
PDRY        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (YDR
or South Yemen)
PHC         Primary Health Care
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PMO         Project Management Office
TBA         Traditional Birth Attendant
TOR         Terms of Reference
TST         Training and Supervision Team
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population
Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO         World Health Organization
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic (North Yemen)
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
EAU
I.       ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  BACKGROUND    ...  .                    .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .     .  1
II.     THE  HEALTH  SECTOR  ....              .     .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .     .  2
A.   Overview    ....  .               .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .     .  2
B.   Main  Issues  ....  .                .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .     .  4
Coverage    ....  .              .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .     .  4
Quality  of Health  Services    ...  .                   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  4
C. Experience with Prior IDA Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
IDA Involvement in the Health Sector .  . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Lessons  Learned  ....            .       .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .     .   7
Rationale  for  the  Project  and  IDA Assistance    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   8
D.   Government  Strategy  and  Dialogue  with  IDA  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9
Government Strategy ..................... . 9
IDA  Strategy    .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
III. THE PROJECT.. .....................  10
A.   Project  Objectives  and  Scope    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
B.   Project  Components  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   11
Component  1:  Strengthening  the  Delivery  of  PHC  services  .  .  .    11
Component 2: Strengthening Staff Training and Health
Education  . .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
Component  3:  Improvement  of Management  and Logistics    .  .  .  .    14
IV.     PROJECT  COSTS,  FINANCING,  MANAGEMENT,  AND  IMPLEMENTATION    .  .  .  .  .    17
A.   Cost  of  the  Project  ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  17
Base  Costs    ....         .        .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .     .  17
Contingency  Allowances    ...  .                   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .     .  18
Foreign  Exchange  Component    ...  .                    .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .     .    18
Incremental  Recurrent  Costs  ...  .                     .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .     .    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Republic of Yemen in January-February 1993
composed of A.F. de Guzman (Mission Leader and Task Manager), L. Concepcion (Senior Implementation Specialist),
G. Richardson (Human Resources Specialirt), and consultant E. Lauridsen (Pharmaceuticals Specialist), F. Partow
and E. Pratt (Public Health Specialists). R. Castadot (Senior Public Health Specialist), P. Maughan (Operations
Assistant), and conxultant T. Assefa (Management Specialist) participated in the identification mission;
consultant G. Hadjicostas (Civil Engineer) participated in the preparation mission. K. Seraphin assisted in
the preparation of this report. The poer reviewers of the report were D. Broun (Health Specialist). F. Golladay
(Principal Human Resources Economist), and A. Sales (Public Health Specialist). The report was prepared under
the overall supervision of Mr. Douglas H. Keare (Chief, MN2PH) and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra (Director, MN2)
and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser (Vice President, MNA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
EAU
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
C.  Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
D.  Procurement Arrangements  .....  .           ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .   22
International Competitive Bidding . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Exceptions to ICB ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .             ..  ..  ..     .   22
Bid Documents and Contract Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
E.  Disbursements ........  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..                       .   24
F.  Project Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
G.  Project Supervision, Reporting, and Evaluation  . . . . . . . .   25
Supervision ........  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..                      .   25
Reporting    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  25
Midterm Review and Evaluation ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
H.  Environmental Impact  .....  ..  .           .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .   .   26
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  ......  ..  .    . .........  ..  .                    .   .   26
A.   Benefits   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
B.  Risks ......i...  ....  ...  ....  ...  ....                             .   27
C.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
VI.   AGREED ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....  .           .    ......  .    .  .  .    .   28
A.  Agreed Actions  ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .             ..  ..  ..  .   .   .   28
B.  Recommendation  ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .             ..  ..  ..  .   .   .   29
TABLES
4.1: Cost Summary by Project Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
4.2: Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . . .   19
4.3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category  . . . . . . . . . . .   20
4.4: Procurement Arrangements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
ANNEXES
1  -  Health Education  ......  .           .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .   .   31
2  -  The Pharmaceutical Subsector  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   37
3  -  External Assistance to the Health Sector  . . . . . . . . . .   43
4  -  Criteria for Selection of Project Districts    . . . . . . . .   49
5  -  Project Management Structure  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   56
6  -  Implementation Charts    .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   57
7  -  Functions of the District Management Team   . . . . . . . . .   63
8  -  Technical Assistance Summary and Schedule    . . . . . . . . .   65
9  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
10 -  Project Supervision Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68
11 -  Key Monitoring Indicators    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   69
MAP   IBRD 24849



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Government of the Republic of Yemen
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
Credit Amount:        US$26.6 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard IDA, 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:  To assist the MOPH to implement the national population policy, to
reduce fertility and maternal and infant mortality, the proposed
project would: (i) improve access to and quality of maternal and
child health and family planning services within the primary
health care system; and (ii) improve management effectiveness in
the health sector more broadly. The project has three major
components: strengthening the delivery of services in selected
rural areas; strengthening manpower training and health education;
and improving management and logistics.
Benefits:             The direct and immediate benefits of the project would be: (i)
improved quality and coverage of health care services for about
906,000 people residing in the seven project districts, especially
at-risk rural populations; (ii) greater number of trained staff,
as 7,000 personnel would be trained; (iii) institutional
development at both central and district levels of the MOPH; and
(iv) regular availability of essential drugs, vaccines, family
planning materials and equipment, making the primary health care
system as well as health education credible. The longer-term
benefits of the project would be the establishment of a basis for
the expansion of quality health care coverage, possible models for
a better delivery system based on project experience, for mounting
future, possibly sector-wide, projects.
Risks:                The recruitment and retention of women as health care providers in
the requisite numbers may not be realized, for cultural and socio-
economic reasons; this risk would be minimized by strengthening
health education messages on women's participation and by
providing incentives to women. There could also be resistance to
the implementation of a national drug program because of a
lucrative black market in drugs; however the Government's
commitment to a national program supported by IDA and by other
donors would mitigate the effects of this risk. The Goverrment
may not be able to finance the cost of maintaining facilities and
equipment and of essential drugs on a nation-wide basis; IDA's
continuing dialogue with the Government would be expected to
result in additional allocation of resources to the health sector.



- ii -
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Component                 Local         Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million----------
MCH/FP Services at PHC           3.9             7.7           11.6
Training & Health
Education                        0.9            2.3             3.2
Sector Management                1.7            8.5            10.2
Total Base Cost                  6.5           18.5            25.0
Physical Contingencies           0.6            1.7             2.3
Price Contingencies              0.9             .2.            2.9
Total Project Cost               8.0*          22.2            30.2
*Including taxcc and duticc of US$0.7 milLion.
Financing Plan:
Financier                Local          Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million----------
IDA                        4.4           22.2           26.6
Government                 3.6            0.0            3.6
Total                      8.0           22.2           30.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1994   1I2k    122i    1997    1998    1299    2000
---------------------US$ million--------------------
Annual            0.2      1.4     9.4      6.8      4.8     2.2      1.8
Cumulative        0.2      1.6    11.0    17.8    22.6    24.8    26.6
Percentage          0        6      40       66       84      92      100
Economic Rate of Return:    Not Applicable



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data Sheetl
A.    GENERAL COUNTRY DATA                                               YEAR
1.   GNP per Capita (US$)                                  550          1991
2.   Urban Population (X)2                                   21         1992
3.   Male Literacy Rate (X of male 12+ years of age)        46          1991
4.   Female Literacy Rate (X of female 12+ years of age)  9             1991
5.   Female Primary School Enrolment                         31         1990
6.   Male Primary School Enrolment                          82          1990
7.   Area in 000 sq.km.                                    537          1992
8.   Population Density                                     21          1991
9.   Percentage of Government Expenditures:
going to Health3                           4         1991
going to Education3                       13         1991
B.    POPULATION
1.   Population Estimate (millions)                         13.1        1992
2.   Population Projections (millions)                      17          2000
38         2025
3.   Crude Birth Rate3                                      51.6        1992
4.   Crude Death Rate3                                       15.5       1992
5.   Annual Rate of Population Growth (X)4                    5.2       1991
6.  Annual Rate of Natural Increase (X)                       3.6       1992
7.   Total Fertility Rate                                     7.6       1992
8.   Life Expectancy at Birth                               48          1990
9.   Infant  Mortality  (per 1,000 live birth)             124          1990
10.   Under-5 Mortality (per 1,000 live birth):
Male                                     191          1990
Female                                   172         1990
11.   Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 live birth)         1,000          1992
12.   Population Age Structure (X)5
0-14 years                                53         1991
15-64 years                               44         1991
65+ years                                  3         1989
13.   Dependency Ratio                                      125          1990
14.   Women in Childbearing Age (X of all women)             43          1990
15.   Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                            3         1991
1. Unless otherwise indicated, data are World Bank estimates (World Develoleant Renort 1991 and 1992).
2. Reoublic of Yemen Human Develo ent: Issues and Challeneos, June 23, 1992 (Report No. 9765-YTE), The
World Bank, Washington, D.C.
3. Central Statistical Organization, Ministry of Planning and Developymnt.
4. Due to the return migration of about one million Ymeni from Saudi ArabiL end the Gulf States.
5. Ministry of Public Health data.



(Basic Data Sheet, continued)
C.    HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR6                                            YEAR
1.   Population per Physician                                 3,560          1990
2.   Population per Nurse                                     1,550          1990
3.   Population per Hospital Bed                              1,214          1990
4.   Population per Primary Health Care Unit                  7,966           1990
5.   Population per Health Center                            24,590          1990
6.   Total Expenditure on Health as X of GNP                       4         1991
7.   Percentage of Supervised Delivery                           12          1980
8.   Percentage of Low Birth Weight Infant7                      35          1990
9.   Malnutrition among Under-5 (X)8:
Underweight                                   53      1980-89
Stunting                                      61      1980-89
Wasting                                       15       1980-89
10.   Daily Calories per Capita                                2,322           1988
D.    UTILIZATION OF SERVICES9
1.   X of the Population with Access to
Primary Health Care Services                                45          1992
2.   X of the Population with Access to MCH Services             15          1992
3.   Patient-days per 1,000 Population:
Health Center & District Hospital             20          1991
Secondary/Tertiary Hospital                  117          1991
4.   Average Occupancy Rate (X):
Health Center                                 42          1991
District Hospital                             60          1991
Secondary/Tertiary Hospital                   95          1991
5.   Average Length of Stay (days):
Health Center                                  5          1991
District Hospital                              5          1991
Secondary/Tertiary Hospital                    7          1991
June 4, 1993
6. Statistical Yearbook 1990, Republic of Yemen Central Statistical Organization (Ministry of Planning and
Developmont).
7. "An Analysis of the Situation of Children and Women in the Republic of Yemen, April 1992," UNICEF,
Sanaa.
8. The State of the World's Children (UNICEF, 1991).
9. Ministry of Public Health data.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Definition of Terms
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate: The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using (or whose husbands are using) any form of
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate: Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate: Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio: Population 14 years or under and 65 years or older as a
percentage of the population aged 15 to 64 years.
Female/Male Literacy Rate: The percentage of persons aged 12 and over who can
read and write.
Infant Mortality Rate: Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth: The number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the age-specific mortality rates prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight: Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500 grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate: Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births in a
given year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth, or postpartum.
Rate of Population Growth: The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural increase and net migration,
expressed as a percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate: The average number of children a woman will have if she
experiences a given set of age-specific fertility rates throughout her
lifetime. Serves as an estimate of the number of children per family.
Under-Five Mortality Rate: Annual number of deaths of children under five
years of age per 1,000 live births. This figure represents the
probability of dying between birth and five years of age.






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
1.1      Physical Resources.  The Republic of Yemen, formed in May 1990, with
the national capital at Sanaa, unifies the 12 governorates of the former Yemen
Arab Republic (YAR, or the North) and the six governorates of the former
Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY, or the South). With an estimated
population of about 13 million people (78 percent of whom live in the North
and 22 percent in the South), Yemen occupies an area of 537,000 sq.km. of
largely mountainous and desertic terrain in the southwestern part of the
Arabian Peninsula. There are five distinct geographic regions: the arid
coastal plain along the Red Sea (the Tihama); the Indian Ocean desertic
littoral; the rugged central and southern highlands, rising to about 3,700 m.,
where most of the population lives; the eastern plateau; and the Rub Al Khali
Desert. Annual rainfall mostly ranges from 150 mm. to 450 mm., although up to
1,200 mm. falls in the highlands. Scarce and diminishing supplies of fresh
water restrict the total annual cultivated area to 1.4 million ha. Other
natural resources include approximately 2,000 km. of marine coastline and oil
reserves first discovered in 1984.
1.2      Economic Activity.  Unification came at a time when both YAR and PDRY
were facing serious economic difficulties, with little growth, large budget
and balance of payment deficits, and intense inflationary pressures. The
situation was complicated by events in the Middle East. First, the massive
return of migrant workers from the Gulf resulted in a sharp decline in
remittances, a principal source of foreign exchange for the country. Second,
other sources of finance either declined sharply or dried up altogether,
including grants and fees that PDRY earned by refining Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude
at the Aden Refinery. The losses of remittances, estimated at some US$1
billion per year, and of other external capital led to a sharp reduction in
imports, seriously depressing domestic economic activities, and to further
debt-service difficulties. In 1990-92, output declined by some three percent
per year. Third, with a nine percent increase in population due to returning
migrants, import needs increased. Fourth, the returnees created an additional
burden on Government finances in terms of needed emergency assistance and
additional infrastructure and social services. With these increased
expenditure requirements, but with stagnating revenue sources, the budget
deficit remained large, averaging about 18 percent of GDP in 1990-92. Much of
the deficit was financed by bank credits, driving domestic inflation to some
40 percent per year during 1990-92.
1.3      Despite the present difficulties and an unfavorable immediate
outlook, Yemen's development prospects remain promising, provided that the
Government adopts appropriate policies to deal with the present situation and
to lay a solid foundation for future development. The country has modest
amounts of oil resources that will raise output substantially in the next few



-2-
years. Spent wisely, oil revenues will help buy time for the country to set
its sound development strategy in motion. With rising unemployment of low-
skilled workers--due to rapid population growth, more women joining the labor
force, and limited opportunities for employment abroad--the country needs a
development strategy that would not only earn sufficient foreign exchange to
pay for what it cannot produce at home but also provide employment
opportunities for the workers. An outward-looking development strategy,
focussing on exports of labor-intensive goods and services, would seem to be
appropriate. The focus of IDA economic dialogue with Yemen has been to assist
the Government to design a program to deal with the short-term stabilization
issues as well as to design a development strategy that is appropriate for its
long-term development.
1.4      Government Administration.  As part of the amalgamation and
reorganization following national unification, the Government adopted an
interim organization that essentially expanded governmental ministries based
on the combined administrations of the two former countries. The Government
recognizes that unification has produced a massive civil service that cannot
be sustained over the long term, an issue that must be addressed. The
Government has started to implement a number of policy measures consistent
with IDA recommendations. It has restrained growth in budget expenditures,
including maintaining allocations for 1993 to various ministries at 1992
levels. It has significantly raised excise taxes on commodities such as
petroleum and tobacco products. It has liberalized the foreign exchange
regime, covering about 85 percent of imports. It has applied throughout the
country the market principles heretofore followed only in the North. In April
1993, the unified country's first national parliamentary elections were
successfully conducted; the formation of a new Government is expected shortly.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A.  Overviewl
2.1      Health and Demographic Conditions.  Yemen's health status indicators
depict serious problems. The current population is 13.1 million (1992) and
the growth rate a high 3.6 percent. Yemen has a young population: the
proportion of under 15 years age group was 52 percent of the total population
(1990) and women of child-bearing age, i.e., 15-49 years, represent 22 percent
of the total population. Although life expectancy at birth has increased over
the last two decades, the present life expectancy of 48 years is still about
14 years less than the average for low-income countries and 30 years less than
that for industrialized countries.
2.2      Maternal and infant mortality is high: the maternal mortality rate,
at 1,000 deaths per 100,000 births, is 100 times that of industrialized
1 For further details on the health sector, see "Republic of Yomen Health Sector Review, January 29, 1993"
(Report No. 11439-YEM), The World Bank, Washington, D.C. (green cover).



- 3 -
countries; the infant mortality rate, at 124 per 1,000 live births, is a
reflection of the factors affecting maternal mortality and is also very high
compared to other countries of similar socioeconomic development. Yemen is in
the early stage of demographic transition: the reduction in the crude death
rate has not been matched by a similar reduction in the crude birth rate. The
overall impact is rapid population growth.
2.3      The incidence of endemic diseases (infectious and parasitic) is high,
with intestinal infestations and infections, malaria, respiratory diseases,
pulmonary tuberculosis, and schistosomiasis most prevalent. It is estimated
that about 300,000 malaria cases occurred in the country in 1991 and that
epidemic outbreaks occurred in 1992, raising the number of malarial cases to
about 500,000, with a higher rate of deaths than in previous years.
Approximately 2.5 million people are estimated to be infected with
schistosomiasis. In 1991-92, thousands of cases of cholera were reported in
13 of the 18 governorates, killing hundreds of people. These epidemics
reflect the lack of preventive health services, including effective health
education programs, unsafe drinking water (in 1990, only 31 percent of the
population had access to safe drinking water) and poor sanitation facilities.
2.4      Sector Organization.  The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) is
responsible for managing the health care system. The Minister of Public
Health chairs four health councils (Ministry, Medical, PHC, and the Supreme
Board for Drugs and Medical Appliances) and has five senior advisers attached
to his office. The Vice Minister and four Deputy Ministers, including one for
Aden, report directly to the Minister. Each of the three Deputy Ministers in
Sanaa is responsible for a ministerial "sector": planning and health
development, medical and health care services, and finance and administration.
The 18 governorate Directors-General (DGs) of Health (for each of 17 governor-
ates and for the national capital region of Sanaa) report to the Vice
Minister. Policy-making, budget, and operational decisions and program
management are all highly centralized. The headquarters staff in Sanaa number
about 630, and the branch in Aden employs about 500.
2.5      Health services in major urban centers, where about 22 percent of the
population lives, are provided by specialized civilian and military hospitals
(for tertiary care) and by a thriving private medical practice. Provision of
health services outside of the major urban centers rests with the primary
health care (PHC) system of 949 health units in villages, supported by 345
health centers in larger towns; 60 district hospitals, the point of referral
for the primary health care network, provide secondary care. The country is
divided into 245 districts which cover large geographic areas; 35 percent have
a catchment population of over 50,000 people.
2.6      Sector Finance.  The three major sources of financing are the
Government budget for public health expenditures (YR 2.0 billion in 1991),
payments for private health services (estimated at YR 1.0 billion), and
foreign assistance (estimated at YR 0.8 billion). Total expenditures
correspond to almost 4 percent of GNP, which compares favorably with the
average for least developed countries. However, in relation to need, such
resource are inadequate, especially for delivering health care to rural
populations. For the immediate future, it is foreseen that the Government



- 4 -
budget would continue to be the main source of financing. Maintaining the
current share for health in Government spending, optimizing the use of foreign
assistance, and relying on community participation would be necessary.
B. Main Issues
Coverage
2.7      There is an apparent urban bias in terms of fiscal and material
allocations and the distribution of health facilities. Regional variation is
great: the bed-per-population ratio varies from 1:265 in Aden to 1:4,420 in
Mahweet, with a national average of 1:1,075. Al-Jawf governorate has neither
a hospital nor a health center with beds. Only about 45 percent of the
population has access to PHC services.
2.8      Government plans to provide 90 percent of the population with access
to primary health care services and reduce the bed-per-population ratio to
1:1,000 by the year 2000 are centered around the expansion of the physical
infrastructure, either through rehabilitation of existing facilities or new
construction. Achievement of these targets will be constrained by the lack of
financial resources and trained personnel to staff the facilities.
Alternative strategies would have to be identified for the effective delivery
of health care services, especially to small communities scattered widely
throughout the countryside.
Ouality of Health Services
2.9         Utilization rates, especially at rural health facilities, are low,
as patients bypass these facilities intended for lower levels of care, and
crowd the larger health centers and hospitals. In the 1992 MOPH survey, about
34 percent of PHC facilities reported attending to less than three cases per
day, and 48 percent reported only 3-15 attendances.2  The principal reasons
for low attendance are lack of staff and inadequate staff training, lack of
equipment, and the absence of curative services and essential drugs. UN and
bilateral agency studies confirm the lack of confidence in the services
offered at public health facilities; in addition, the low credibility of
health education workers is noted. Lacking clientele, patient referral, for
which the three-tier system is designed, is largely inoperative.
2.10     Condition of Health Facilities.  About 60 percent of existing health
centers and health units are generally in need of some repair; only a little
over 50 percent of PHC facilities had basic equipment in working order; and
office and clinic furniture are needed throughout. Further, to provide MCH/FP
services, many of these facilities need separate waiting and treatment rooms
2. There is evidence, however, that parts of the system are functioning as intended. In the same survey, 12
percent of the facilities reported 15-30 attendances per day and six percont reported more then 30 or moire
attendances.



for women and additional furniture. There is little or no building or
equipment maintenance.
2.11     Availability of Oualified Health Staff.  The shortage of qualified
personnel is a significant constraint limiting the quality and quantity of
health services. The population-per-physician ratios (1990) range from 586:1
in Sanaa City to 17,044:1 in Dhamar, with an average ratio of 3,560:1. Of the
facilities included in the MOPH survey (1992), 82 percent reported not having
a physician on staff. Over 90 percent of the facilities reported not having a
midwife, and 87 percent were without a nurse. As previously noted, the
variation in the population per physician ratios illustrate the regional
variation in the availability of medical staff. Population-per-nursing staff
ratios have a similar pattern, ranging from 255:1 in Aden to 16,302:1 in Al-
Mahweet with a country average of 3,560:1. The shortage of medical staff
translates into health facilities without staff. Further, the MOPH Manpower
Survey (1992) shows that the present capacity of the training institutes is
not adequate to produce the number of staff required to meet future needs.
2.12     The problem is further exacerbated by the shortage of female staff.
As women will only accept certain types of treatment from male staff, absence
of female staff renders many of the services inaccessible to the female
population. Women are constrained both as recipients and as potential
providers of health services. Due to cultural and socioeconomic reasons,
women are generally not encouraged to participate in training programs or to
serve as health care providers. The result is that there are few women
participating in training programs, and subsequently few women to serve as
health care providers, and therefore the availability of services to women
clientele are limited.
2.13     The staffing issue is compounded by broad variation in the quality of
training received. The entry requirements to, and curricula of, training
programs for paramedical staff differ between the health manpower institutes
of the North and those of the South; in addition, donors also provide
training. Performance standards are, therefore, not uniform, capabilities of
the staff vary, and the responsibility for officially recognizing training
received from various programs is undefined in the MOPH.
2.14     Effectiveness of Health Education.  The MOPH Directorate-General for
Health Education is active in the delivery of primarily media-borne messages,
and well supported by various donor agencies for specific types of messages.
UNICEF supports messages for child survival, UNFPA for family planning, and
WHO for primary health care. However, messages which specifically address
maternal health and women's participation in the health sector are limited in
number, and the Directorate's activities are mostly production-oriented, with
no systematic mechanism for the evaluation of the impact of the print, radio,
and television messages. Further, the capacity of the existing staff and
available resources are inadequate for implementation of the new MOPH strategy
of delivering health education messages through interpersonal communication,
using trainers at the governorate level (details in Annex 1).
2.15     Management CaRacity.  Managerial capability and performance at the
central and governorate offices have declined with the unification of the



health ministries of the former YAR and of the former PDRY: the central MOPH
appears to be overstaffed, job responsibilities seem to be ambiguous and
overlapping, and there is no formal mechanism for establishing accountability.
The ability to respond to needs in the field is hindered by the inadequacy of
available information as the health information system (HIS) is only in its
initial development stage. Further, although the MOPH has a research unit
with some experience, and therefore the potential for monitoring sector
activities, the staff of the unit needs further training on research methods,
and the unit needs technical support. Lacking effective planning,
organization, management, and financial resources, the procurement of
equipment and materials is slow and cumbersome, and the capacity to provide
maintenance services for facilities and equipment is overwhelmed by demand.
2.16     Not every health district has a service hospital; in many districts,
health centers function as the district point of referral. The district
hospitals or their equivalent often do not have the requisite facilities,
especially blood banks and operating rooms for the effective delivery of
MCH/FP services. Moreover, the referral mechanism is not well organized:
there are neither clear management guidelines nor operational procedures for
patient referral. The districts are also largely unsupervised: of the 1,270
PHC facilities included in the 1992 MOPH survey, only nine percent reported
staff having made any supervisory visit outside their own health facility,
within three months prior to the survey.
2.17     Availability of Medical SunRlies.  The MOPH Supreme Board of Drugs
and Medical Appliances (SBDMA) is the drug and equipment regulatory agency,
for both the public and the private sector, responsible for registration,
quality control, inspection, pricing, and licensing of drug companies,
importers and pharmacies. The MOPH Directorate-General of Drugs and Medical
Supplies is responsible for all procurement, storage, distribution and use of
drugs in the public health facilities3.  However, the military health
service, the El-Thawra Hospital, YEDCO, the National Drug Company (NDC) and
the private health sector all have separate logistics systems. In addition,
donated drugs are frequently stored and distributed independently by their
corresponding multilateral and bilateral donors.
2.18     The ineffective policy formulation and industry regulation as well as
unsystematic procurement and distribution adversely affect the health sector.
The country's large drug bill (over US$110 million per year) is largely due to
private sector imports, while shortages in essential drugs plague public
health facilities (MOPH procured no drugs in 1989, 1990, 1991, relying only on
foreign donations for supply; in the 1992 MOPH survey, about 40 percent of PHC
facilities reported having less than 10 types of drugs). Complicated
licensing requirements and unenforced pricing policies encourage drug
smuggling. And for lack of appropriate information and guidance, irrational
use of drugs is widespread.
3. In Aden, the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services end Medical Supplies controls public sector importation
and monitors the quality of drugs for the six southern governorates, which enter through the port of Aden.



2.19     Despite external assistance (and the experience of a successful drug
program in pre-unified PDRY), the concept of a national essential drug program
is only now beginning to develop. A unified National List of Essential Drugs
(developed in 1991 and being revised with WHO assistance) is being used as a
basis for MOPH tenders and for granting import licenses. In December 1992, a
National Drug Policy for the Republic of Yemen was drafted; a summary of the
draft will be included in the overall health policy document, to be submitted
to the Ministerial Council for approval in 1994. The MOPH has also produced a
comprehensive Plan of Action for a National Pharmaceutical Program (NPP) for
1993-1996, to coordinate the support provided by WHO, the Dutch and the German
bilateral programs, and IDA projects. The NPP would establish a Council of
Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Appliances, with membership of all
governmental agencies concerned and the private sector, to coordinate all
pharmaceutical policies. However, implementing the NPP will require technical
and financial assistance in terms of provision of drugs as well as systems
development and management (estimated at US$7.7 million, plus an annual drug
and equipment cost of about US$21.0 million). Further details on the
subsector are provided in Annex 2.
C. ExDerience with Prior IDA Lending
IDA Involvement in the Health Sector
2.20     Since 1982, there have been two health sector credits to the former
YAR and two to the former PDRY. Two of these credits (one in the YAR and one
in the PDRY, amounting to US$18.7 million in IDA financing) have been
completed; the two other projects (amounting to US$19.5 million in IDA
credits) are ongoing.
2.21     The First Health Project (Credit 1294-YAR), for the northern
governorates, was completed in 1989 at a cost of US$8.1 million in IDA credits
(US$2.4 million was cancelled). The credit financed the construction of
essential infrastructure and provided for institutional strengthening of
central MOPH and training of relevant management staff. The ongoing Health
Sector Development Project (Credit 2151-YEH for US$15.0 million) is financing
the construction of HMIs for training, drug warehouses in selected
governorates, and medical equipment maintenance workshops. The Health
Development Project (Credit 1377-YDR) was successfully completed in 1989,
fully disbursing the US$8.2 million in IDA credits (with US$7.3 million in
additional financing from the Islamic Development Bank, the Government of
Norway, WHO, and UNICEF). It established PHC facilities in Abyan, Lahej, and
Hadramout in the southern governorates. The ongoing Second Health Development
Project (Credit 1972-YEM for US$4.5 million) is constructing PHC facilities in
Aden, Shabwa, and Al-Mahra.
Lessons Learned
2.22     The principal lesson learned from the First Health Project was that
creating a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) outside of the mainstream MOPH
management structure isolates PIU and project activities. This lesson has
been incorporated into the proposed project's design by involving MOPH



management in all phases of project design, and therefore fostering MOPH
ownership of the project, and making project management an integral part of
the existing MOPH management structure. The principal lessons learned from
the Health Development Project were that project design should be simple, and
having many cofinaciers complicates implementation of this type of project.
The design of the proposed project is for IDA financing alone, without
cofinaciers, but the proposed project has developed a simple methodology for
selecting health districts in order of priority, that could be adopted by
other donor agencies wishing to assist the sector on the basis of objectives
similar to those of the project. Moreover, project component activities are
coordinated with other-donor assistance, e.g., WHO and other bilateral
programs in pharmaceuticals, and UNICEF and UNFPA programs in health
education.
Rationale for the Project and IDA Assistance
2.23     Government policies indicate a firm commitment to addressing the
priority needs of the health sector. Highest priority is being given to
improving the quality and quantity of basic curative services and preventive
activities, rather than to more sophisticated hospital care, and particular
attention is being given to the most vulnerable groups of the population,
i.e., women of reproductive age and children. Implementation of these
policies is, however, hampered by a number of serious constraints. Sector
administration, still in transition from the relatively recent unification, is
highly centralized in Sanaa and Aden and weak at governorate and district
levels. Financial resources are limited. Funds from the government budget
are largely inadequate, and much improvement is needed in the coordination of
donor assistance. Health care delivery is unsatisfactory, in terms of both
the quality of services and their coverage. Poor quality of services is due
to various weaknesses ranging from the lack of qualified staff and the
shortage of essential drugs to the poor condition of the physical
infrastructure. The result is inappropriate utilization of the health care
delivery system, as patients tend to bypass lower-level facilities, which are
generally poorly equipped and staffed, in favor of hospitals. As regards
coverage (i.e., physical accessibility), only 45 percent of the population is
served by the existing health care delivery system.
2.24       Although the government objective to achieve greater coverage of
the health care delivery system is fully justified in the long-term, improved
quality of existing services deserves higher priority in the short-term. This
is because of the need to restore credibility in the system while ensuring
that future outreach services receive adequate technical and logistical
support. Furthermore, substantial expansion of the network of health centers
and health units is beyond the financial capacity of the Government. Instead,
innovative, cost-effective approaches to service delivery need to be developed
to reach the large number of small, isolated communities scattered throughout
the country.
2.25     The previous IDA projects aimed at developing management and training
capacity while establishing the basic infrastructure for health care delivery.
The proposed project represents continuity with those aims by specifically
focusing on improving three key areas: health staff training and development,



- 9 -
health education, and management of medical supplies. These areas are
directly relevant to the needs of the population groups at highest risk,
particularly among the rural poor. As to health infrastructure, this project
represents a departure from the previous ones because it would focus on
improving existing facilities, rather than constructing new ones, and on
upgrading the quality of health services, especially for women and children,
offered at those facilities. Instead of investing now in the expansion of
coverage, the project would initiate limited pilot activities, to examine
appropriate ways to improve the coverage of services to reach remote rural
communities. Assistance to expand the health care delivery system would be
considered under subsequent projects, conditional to improved quality of
current services and based on the lessons learned through the development of
outreach services to be supported by this project.
2.26     The proposed project would address key weaknesses that affect the
sector's performance nationwide while improving quality of service delivery in
selected rural districts.  The project has been formulated, taking into
account the programs of other donors4 (details of donor activity in the
sector are in Annex 3) and also presents opportunities for strengthening donor
coordination in the sector. In primary health care services, the proposed
project would complement other-donor assistance by selecting only those areas
(health districts) with no significant support from any other donor. In
health education, the project would complement the efforts of other donors by
targeting assistance in areas not sufficiently covered (messages on maternal
health and on women's participation in the health sector). And in the
pharmaceutical subsector, the project would, in concert with bilateral and
other international donors, support the development of a single national drug
procurement and distribution system. IDA presence in the sector and
continuing dialogue with the Government are significant considerations in some
donors' decision to continue with their own assistance programs.
D. Government Strategv and Dialogue with IDA
Government Strategy
2.27     In November 1991 an action plan for the National Population Strategy
was adopted by the Government which emphasizes measures to improve maternal
and child care and the provision of family planning services. This strategy
has been incorporated into the national health policy. A medium-term
development plan for the health sector is being formulated by the MOPH with
assistance by WHO and is scheduled for submission to the Ministerial Council
in 1994. The medium-term strategy focuses on: (i) decentralizing financial
resources and management decision-making; (ii) developing the district-based
primary health care program whereby the district hospital would serve as the
apex of the primary health care network; (iii) reforming the personnel policy
4. Following the 1991 population conference attended by reproeentativoe of Governmont, private sector, and
donor agencies, from which resulted a population action plan, IDA assumed the lead rosponsibility for
undertaking in 1992 a study of the health sector of tho unified country, in collaboration with UN agencies and
bilateral donors active in Yemen. Thc study was complemented by the MOPH'c own 1992 nationwide survey of health
facilities and manpower.



- 10 -
to incorporate performance indicators and rationalizing the deployment of
staff; (iv) improving the quality of services in existing facilities by
providing needed drugs and supplies, increasing the capacity of the manpower
training institutes, strengthening emergency services, establishing district-
level supervisory teams and developing a maintenance program; (v) widening the
scope of health education programs; and (vi) developing a health information
system.
IDA Strategy
2.28     The IDA strategy framework for human resources development in Yemen
emphasizes the provision in the lending program of resources for: (i) basic
education for all; (ii) primary health care, embracing maternal and early
childhood development; (iii) access to essential health and education
services; and (iv) the social safety net for the underemployed, the
unemployed, and especially the nonworking poor. The strategy calls for
support of policies and action programs appropriate to the situation of Yemen
aimed at stabilization of population and improvement of public health
services, including those for maternal and child care, nutrition, and family
planning.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Oblectives and ScoRe
3.1      The project would assist the MOPH to implement the national
population policy, articulated in 1991, to reduce fertility and maternal and
infant mortality. The proposed project would: (i) improve access to and
quality of MCH/FP services within the PHC system; and (ii) improve management
effectiveness in the health sector more broadly. The project has three major
components: strengthening the delivery of PHC services in selected rural
areas; strengthening manpower training and health education; and improving
management and logistics.
3.2      The project would establish fully functioning health facilities in
seven districts; it would also pilot certain innovative approaches. Health
care services would be improved in a limited number of districts, with a view
to expanding these services to other districts of similar characteristics
later, as resources become available. At the same time, pilot activities
would be initiated in at least two areas, to identify means of reaching the
communities for which the district system may not be feasible. The impact of
each project component would be monitored closely according to specific
indicators and adjustments made accordingly during implementation to ensure
that project interventions meet the needs of the rural population. The
expected outcome of the project would be efficiently functioning models for
rural health care delivery.



- 11 -
B. Proiect Components
Component 1: Strengthening the Delivery of PHC services
3.3      This component would improve the quality of PHC services,
particularly MCH/FP services, in selected rural areas to demonstrate effective
referral and supervision systems where facilities and personnel are in place.
At the same time, the project would pilot alternative means of delivering
services to the extreme periphery, which may be sparsely populated, with much
of the population beyond the reach of the regular service delivery system.
Seven rural health districts (of the 245 in the country) have been selected
according to criteria which included population size, availability of health
staff and infrastructure, and potential for development activities. The
activities of other donors have also been taken into account in the selection
Details of the selection procedure and criteria are in Annex 4. The seven
project districts are Qabaitah (Taiz governorate), Seyoun (Hadramout
governorate), Lawdar (Abyan governorate), Khawlan (Sanaa governorate), Al-Said
(Shabwa governorate), Zabeed (Hodeida governorate), and Harad (Hajja
governorate). Component 1 would consist of four parts: strengthening district
hospitals, developing the PHC infrastructure, strengthening the management of
PHC services and the referral system, and conducting pilot activities.
3.4      District HosRitals (US$4.2 million).  District hospitals serve as
referral facilities for lower-level health centers and health units. They
lend technical credibility to the health network by providing the necessary
technical and logistic support to the PHC system. Most district hospitals are
in poor condition and lack essential services such as blood banking and
operating rooms. Several districts included in the project do not yet have a
district hospital, the highest-level facility being a health center.
3.5      The project would strengthen the delivery of services at the district
hospital level in the seven rural districts through the provision of: (i)
civil works, medical equipment and furniture to renovate the existing
hospitals and, where needed, upgrade those health centers into district
hospitals (particular attention would be given to the provision of emergency
obstetric and blood banking services at district hospitals); (ii) one vehicle
for patient referral per hospital; (iii) technical assistance in the
management of obstetrical emergencies, blood banking, and operating theaters;
(iv) training of laboratory technicians on blood testing and blood banking
management, and the promotion and collection of blood donations; and (v)
fellowships in public health and community midwifery. The fellowships would
serve as incentives to attract and retain qualified female staff at the
district level.
3.6      PHC Infrastructure (US$8.2 million).  Similar to district hospitals,
PHC facilities (health centers and health units) are generally in poor
condition. A number of health units also need to be upgraded to health
centers to more effectively serve the large surrounding populations. The
project would assist in establishing a satisfactory network of PHC facilities
in the seven districts by financing: (i) civil works for the rehabilitation of
18 health centers and 76 health units, upgrading of 12 existing health units



- 12 -
into health centers, and, to attract and retain qualified staff, especially
women, the construction of living quarters at all health center locations; and
(ii) the procurement of medical equipment and furniture for the health and
living facilities.
3.7      PHC Services and Referral System Management (US$0.6 million).  To
improve management of PHC services at the district level, a district
management team (DMT) would be established in each district. The DMT,
composed of one physician, one midwife, and one medical assistant or health
inspector, would be based at the district hospital or at the district health
office and liaise with the Governorate Health Office. The functions of the
DMT would include supervising the primary health care facilities to ensure
that they are appropriately staffed and equipped, that the equipment and
facilities are maintained, and provide inservice training. To facilitate
appropriate utilization at each level of facility, an effective referral
system between PHC facilities and district hospitals will be implemented.
3.8      The project would strengthen the management of PHC services through:
(i) the provision of technical assistance to develop the district management
system and its procedures, and for the design and implementation of the
referral system; (ii) the costs for local training of staff in the district
managerial functions and the referral system; and (iii) the procurement of
equipment, including vehicles for the DMTs.
3.9      Pilot Activities (US$1.0 million).  Many small communities are widely
dispersed over difficult terrain and are out of reach of the existing primary
health care delivery system. A pilot activity, such as mobile teams, would be
supported by the project to explore ways in which service delivery could be
expanded to populations currently without such services. A second pilot
activity would focus on community participation in the provision of health
services, e.g., having the community support, in cash or in kind, the salary
of primary health care staff. The specific nature of the pilot interventions
would be defined by the technical assistance consultant in collaboration with
the Research Unit of the MOPH and the DMTs at the local level. The project
would finance technical assistance (packaged to include consulting services
and the acquisition of needed equipment and materials) for undertaking the two
pilot activities in two districts selected for the purpose.
3.10     During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) changes, if any,
of project districts would conform to the criteria agreed upon with IDA and
would be submitted to IDA for approval; (ii) the blood banking (hematology)
consultant would propose alternative measures to ensure the safety of blood
collection and storage, the recommendations of this analysis would be
submitted to IDA, and procurement of blood banking equipment would require IDA
approval; (iii) priority in the selection of trainees and fellows would be
given to staff and key managers, especially women, from the project districts;
upon completion of the training or fellowship, the trainee or awardee be
required to serve a minimum service period; and (iv) DMTs would be established
in each of the project districts and would consist of one physician, one
midwife, and one medical assistant or health inspector.



- 13 -
Component 2: Strengthening Staff Training and Health Education
3.11     This component would improve the quality of health services nation-
wide. Quality would be enhanced by strengthening the training programs for
higher level health care staff, since resources for training lower level
primary health care workers (TBAs and health guides) are available from other
donor agencies (Annex 3). Quality would be further enhanced by strengthening
the delivery of health education messages.
3.12     Training of Health Care Staff (US$1.7 million).  Training
interventions would be targeted to preservice, inservice, and induction
training programs for five staff categories: professional and assistant
nurses, professional and community midwives, and medical assistants. For the
seven project districts, for which staff are available (para. 3.3), training
and supervision teams (TSTs) would be formed at the corresponding governorate
health office and would conduct supervisory and training activities at the
health facilities within the governorate.
(a)   Preservice Training.  To increase the capacity of health manpower
institutes (HMIs) to produce qualified staff, the project would
finance civil works, equipment, and furniture for five additional
classrooms at both the Taiz and Hodeida HMIs. To improve the quality
of training, the project would finance technical assistance to review
and revise the national training curricula of selected cadres of
primary health care staff for adequate coverage of family health
topics. Fellowships in preservice training would also be supported
by the project. The project would also provide training equipment
and materials to all HMIs. About 4,000 health personnel would be
trained during the project period.
(b)   Continuing Education.  To improve the quality of inservice training,
the project would finance technical assistance for the development of
a curriculum for continuing education programs, and for the
development of the training program to be provided by the TSTs, and
the cost of training materials for the continuing education courses
to be provided during the project period. To facilitate supervisory
and training visits to the field, the project would finance vehicles
for seven TSTs. The project would provide for study visits to
observe continuing education programs. About 2,300 health care
providers (doctors, nurses and assistant nurses, community midwives,
and medical assistants) would receive continuing education during the
project period.
(c)   Induction Training.  To orient about 700 health personnel newly
assigned to PHC facilities, the project would finance induction
training in administrative and operational procedures as well as
performance requirements. During the induction training, deficien-
cies in certain skills would be identified and staff referred to the
appropriate inservice training program. In addition, study visits
would be supported by the project.



- 14 -
3.13     Health Education (US$2.0 million).  The project would support the
program of the MOPH Directorate-General for Health Education for the delivery
of media-borne messages in maternal health and women's participation in the
health sector and for the delivery of health education messages through
interpersonal means. This component would complement the assistance of UNICEF
(child survival), UNFPA (family planning), WHO (primary health care). Project
interventions would be at two levels: central and governorate.
(a)   Central Level.  To augment institutional capacity at the Directorate-
General for Health Education, the project would support: technical
assistance in program development and in research and evaluation;
fellowships in the areas of social research, materials production,
scriptwriting, and production management; and the recruitment of one
scriptwriter, one technical director, and one researcher. To
initiate the implementation of the program for the delivery of health
messages through interpersonal means the project would provide:
technical assistance in interpersonal communication program
development; materials for the development of manuals for training
district health personnel, health care providers, religious leaders,
students, scouts, and development agency personnel as communication
agents; and local training of a core group of communication agents in
annual workshops. A variety of TV flashes, 30-minute TV programs,
radio spots, and print promotional materials pertaining to maternal
health and on women's participation in the health sector would be
produced; their effectiveness would be monitored.
(b)   Governorate Level.  To strengthen television production capacity in
the Aden, Hodeida, and Hadramout health education offices, the
project would provide TV production and related equipment including
transport vans for TV production equipment and crew. And to augment
institutional capacity in the governorates, the project would support
training costs for about 20 health officers in health education
administration and supervision.
3.14     During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) for each project
district, TSTs would be established at the corresponding governorate health
office and be responsible for carrying out supervisory and training
activities; and (ii) an action plan for the establishment of a suitable
procedure for certification of primary health workers (para. 2.13) would be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1994.
ComRonent 3: Improvement of Management and Logistics
3.15     This component would improve management of the health sector nation-
wide, and thereby its capacity to expand services dramatically in the future,
by supporting a few key interventions, including the development of a health
information system, a concrete means for the distribution of essential drugs,
and a maintenance system. The inputs of other donors have been considered in
the design of each of the subcomponents.
3.16     Health Information System (US$1.4 million).  To accelerate the
installation of a unified HIS, considered a priority by sector management, a



- 15 -
MOPH task force, with support from WHO, has defined a plan for the
development, implementation, and evaluation of a national HIS. The HIS would
be manual at the sub-governorate level, and computerized at governorate and
central levels. The project would support the expansion of the manual HIS to
areas not included in the pretesting activities and the implementation of the
computerized system at the governorate and central levels. The specific
interventions to be supported by the project has been defined in consideration
of the input to be provided by WHO.
3.17     To extend the manual HIS to all sub-governorates, the project would
support local costs for developing and conducting training workshops for
district health officers and staff from district hospitals, health centers and
health units on the use of the standardized forms. To computerize the HIS at
governorate and central levels, the project would provide: (i) technical
assistance in and a fellowship for the software development and statistical
analysis; (ii) computer hardware and software for use at the MOPH central and
governorate health offices; (iii) local costs for training central and
governorate office staff on computer applications and statistical analysis;
and (iv) minor repairs at governorate offices for the installation of
computers.
3.18     Research and Project Monitoring (US$0.3 million).  The research
capacity of the MOPH would be strengthened to allow for more extensive
analysis of current activities and constraints, provide a means for exploring
options for alternative modes of delivery of health services, and provide a
mechanism for identifying areas for improvement. The project would support:
(i) the procurement of equipment and materials for the creation of a document
center, (ii) fellowships for staff of the Research Unit; and (iii) technical
assistance to work with the Research Unit in the definition of baseline data
and monitoring indicators for use in the seven project districts, conduct a
study on utilization rates, and a study on increasing women's participation as
health care providers. The Research Unit would be expected to oversee the
implementation of the two pilot activities of the project (para. 3.9).
3.19     Pharmaceuticals Logistics System (US$9.9 million).  To support the
logistics development component of the new National Pharmaceutical Program
(para. 2.19), the project would strengthen the planning and implementation
capacity of the MOPH Directorate of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies
(under the Directorate-General of Drug and Supply Services). The technical
assistance, essential drugs, and equipment to be procured under this sub-
component would be coordinated by WHO.
(a)   Plans and Procedures.  The project would support: (i) technical
assistance for the development of a distribution master plan for
drugs, medical equipment, and other supplies, the development of a
training program in drug quantification, the development of a manual
on drug and medical equipment procurement procedures, for a review of
the local drug production capacity, an assessment of prepackaging
drugs, and to examine the feasibility of cost sharing with respect to
pharmaceuticals; (ii) short-term training fellowships; and (iii)
costs for local training of relevant MOPH staff on the findings of
the consultant services.



- 16 -
(b)   Facilities and Eauipment.  To improve materials handling, the project
would support minor repairs at the central drug warehouses in Sanaa
and Aden, warehousing equipment and about 13 delivery trucks for the
central warehouses and the medical stores in the seven governorates
where project districts are located.
(c)   Drugs and FP Materials.  Essential drugs, including those for FP, and
consumables in kits would be provided by the project as part of the
National Pharmaceutical Program (1993-96) for PHC facilities.
Project financing (estimated to fill the essential drug requirement
of the project districts) in coordination with other-donor and the
Government's own financing is expected to alleviate the acute drug
shortage especially at lower-level facilities. IDA would finance the
drug procurement on a declining basis; the Government's appropriation
for essential drugs would be included in the annual review of the
MOPH recurrent budget.
3.20     Procurement Management and Facilities Maintenance (US$0.9 million).
To strengthen the capability of the Directorate of Purchasing and Storage
(DPS) of the MOPH Directorate-General of Finance, procurement processes would
be systematized and computerized. Project support would include: (i)
technical assistance for organizing and computerizing procurement procedures,
accounting, contract administration, and records-keeping procedures; (ii)
study visits to observe effective procurement management systems; and (iii)
computer hardware and software (including accounting, inventory, and database
packages). Staff training would be "hands on," with DPS staff preparing the
first bidding packages for the procurement of project equipment under guidance
of procurement specialists (the WHO consultant assisting the Directorate of
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies on storage and distribution planning
would include DPS staff in this training); the training would also include
attendance by key staff in short courses on international procurement and
contracting.
3.21     To enable the MOPH Directorate-General of Maintenance to respond
effectively to the maintenance and repair needs, especially of the PHC system,
the project would finance: (i) technical assistance by a maintenance
management specialist to help design procedures for preventive maintenance and
repair, record-keeping and inventory control, and planning, budgeting, and
scheduling; (ii) fellowships for key staff in maintenance management; and
(iii) the procurement of two mobile units and equipment maintenance and repair
tool kits, computer hardware and maintenance management software for the
central and governorate workshops.
3.22     During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) the National
Drug Policy, taking into consideration the recommendations of WHO, would be
further developed not later than June 30, 1993; (ii) said policy would be
included in the National Health Policy to be submitted to the Ministerial
Council during FY94; (iii) an essential drugs list would be adopted by
December 31, 1994; (iv) technical assistance related to the pharmaceutical
subsector would be coordinated with assistance from WHO; (v) the needed
allocations for essential drugs for the project would be provided out of the
Government's own resources and that the technical-financial reports to be



- 17 -
provided to IDA would specifically include a review of the MOPH budget and the
budgetary allocation for drugs; and (vi) the study on cost sharing
arrangements for pharmaceuticals would be completed before the midterm project
review (para. 4.20).
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT. AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Cost of the Project
4.1      The total project cost is estimated at about US$30.2 million
equivalent including contingencies (US$5.2 million) and duties and taxes
(US$0.7 million). The foreign exchange component amounts to about US$22.2
million or 73 percent of total cost. Total costs include civil works;
furniture, equipment, vehicles, and materials; technical assistance,
consisting of expert services and fellowships, professional fees, local
training, and studies; pharmaceutical products; and incremental recurrent
costs. The proposed credit (US$26.6 million equivalent) would finance about
90 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The cost
breakdown is shown in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
Base Costs
4.2      Project costs were based on prevailing market prices for works, goods
and services at the time of appraisal in February 1993 and adjusted to reflect
costs at negotiations in May 1993. Project costs have all been estimated in
US dollar terms because of the large differentials between official and market
rates, and between local and foreign price contingency rates. It is assumed
that equipment, goods and services procured for the project would be exempt
from customs duties and local taxes. Specifically:
(a)   Civil  Works.  Cost estimates for civil works were based on contracts
for health service and training facilities recently awarded (January
1993) by the PIU under the Second Health Sector Development Project
(Credit 2151-YEM). In the case of the refurbishing works, since the
health facilities selected for the project represent the better
maintained units, and only minimal extensions, if any are considered,
the unit cost applied for refurbishing works were calculated at about
25 percent of the cost of new construction.
(b)   Eguipment and Furniture.  Equipment units costs are based on standard
UNICEF lists for each type of health facility and current catalogue
prices. The costs of furniture for the health facilities to be
refurbished are estimated at about 10 percent of the building cost.
(c)   Technical Assistance (TA).  Cost estimates for technical assistance
were based on unit costs for comparable technical assistance and
specialist services under WHO-administered contracts in Yemen. TA
costs include fees for services rendered, overhead, recruitment,
travel, lodging and subsistence costs. The cost of fellowships



- 18 -
abroad assume that most external training would occur within the
region and include travel, boarding, subsistence and training fees.
Professional fees for architectural and engineering design and
supervision services are calculated at about 6 percent of the
projected cost of civil works contracts.
Contingency Allowances
4.3      Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical additions
(US$2.0 million) equal to 10 percent of the estimated cost of all project
items, except for technical assistance (5 percent) and salaries (for which
none has been provided). Annual rates of foreign price increases have been
estimated at an average of 3.1 percent for 1994 through 1998. Local price
increases for all items except salaries have been estimated at 40 percent for
1994, 35 percent for 1995, 30 percent for 1996, and 25 percent thereafter.
Price contingencies for salaries were estimated at 10 percent per annum.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.4      The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (i) civil
works, 52 percent; (ii) furniture, equipment, vehicles, and software, 95
percent; (iii) technical assistance, including specialist services,
architectural-engineering professional fees, pilot activities and studies, 80
percent; (iv) overseas fellowships, 100 percent; and (v) local training, 30
percent.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.5      Incremental recurrent costs consist of salaries of additional
training staff, medical facilities and equipment maintenance costs, and
provision of essential drugs.   The salary costs are based on current
remuneration of civil service personnel. Annual building maintenance costs
are calculated at about 2 percent of civil works refurbishing costs. Annual
equipment maintenance costs are estimated at 10 percent of the acquisition
cost of equipment. The unit costs of essential drugs are based on current
prices of the priority list of medications and pharmaceutical products
compiled with the assistance of WHO experts.



- 19 -
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
------YR million ------    -----US$ million-----   X Foreign  X of Total
Comwonent                 Lc    Foreign  TotAl         LkS_1  Foreitn   otcl    Exchange  Bas  Cost
A. MCH/FP SERVICES AT PHC
1. District Hospitals             31.6     117.7    149.3      0.7     2.8      3.6          78.8       14.2
2. PHC Infrastructure            125.6      156.0   281.6      2.9     3.8      6.7          55.4       26.8
3. PHC Services & Referrals        5.7       13.9    19.5    0.1    0.3         0.5          71.0        1.9
4. Pilot Activities                7.6       28.6     36.2     0.2    0.7       0.9          78.9        3.4
Subtotal                      170.5     316.1   486.6       3.9    7.7      11.6          65.0      46.3
B. TRAINING & HEALTH EDUCATION
1. Training of Health Staff       16.8       43.2    60.0      0.4     1.0      1.4          72.0        5.7
2. Hoalth Education               20.4       55.4     75.8     0.5     1.3      1.8          73.1        7.2
Subtotal                       37.2      98.6    135.9    0.9    2.4         3.2          72.6      12.9
C. HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT
1. Health Information Systm    16.2         31.7      48.0     0.4     0.8      1.1          66.2        4.6
2. Research & Monitoring           1.6        8.1      9.7    0.0      0.2      0.2          64.0        0.9
3. Pharmacouticals                52.6      286.9   339.5      1.2    6.9        8.1         84.5       32.3
4. Procuremont & Maintenance       4.2      27.1      31.3     0.1     0.7      0.7          88.7        3.0
Subtotal                       74.5    354.0   428.5        1.7     8.5     10.2          82.6      40.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     282.3     768.7  1051.0       6.5    18.5    25.0           74.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies         26.3      70.0      96.3     0.6     1.7      2.3          72.7       9.2
Price Contingencies           619.9   1718.1  2337.9        0.9    2.0       2.9          68.0      11.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  928.4   2556.7  3485.2       8.1   22.2       30.2          73.3     120.8
Note: Figures may not add up to totals because of rounding.
Table 42: COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
------YR million------   -----US$ million-----   X Foreign  Z of Total
Comonent                  Locc   Foreixn  Total    Local  Forsi2    n      el    ,E,,xchange  Does Cost
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. New/Upgraded Facilities        72.8      73.9   146.7       1.7     1.8      3.5          50.4      14.0
2. Rehabilitated Facilities       74.6       75.8   150.4      1.7     1.9      3.6          50.4       14.3
Subtotal                      147.4     149.7   297.1       3.4     3.7      7.1          50.4      28.3
B. Equipment                           5.8     103.5   109.3      0.1    2.5        2.6         94.7       10.4
C. Furniture                           1.4      25.1    26.4      0.0     0.6       0.6         94.8        2.5
D. Books & Training Materials          1.8      32.3    34.1      0.0     0.8       0.8         94.7        3.2
E. Spocialist Services                10.6      39.7    50.4      0.2     1.0       1.2         78.9        4.8
F. Professional Fees                   3.7      13.9     17.6    0.1      0.3       0.4         78.9        1.7
G. Pilot Activities                    7.6      28.6     36.2     0.2     0.7       0.9         78.9        0.8
H. Studios & Research                  1.7       6.4      8.1     0.0     0.2       0.2         78.9        0.8
I. Fellowships                         0.0      75.6    75.6      0.0     1.8       1.8        100.0        7.2
J. Local Training                     36.7      14.7     51.4     0.9     0.4       1.2         28.a        4.9
K. Vehicles                            3.2      58.9     62.1     0.1      1.4      1.5          94.8       5.9
Total Invostment Costs           220.1     548.2   768.3       5.1   13.2      18.3          71.3       73.1
RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries                           21.6       0.0    21.6      0.5     0.0       0.5           0.0       2.1
B. Pharmaceuticals for MCH            11.3     201.1   212.4      0.3     4.8       5.1         94.7       20.2
C. Operational Costs
1. Building Maintenance            6.6       0.7       7.3     0.2     0.0      0.2           9.4       0.7
2. Equipment Maintenance          18.6       17.5     36.1     0.4     0.4      0.9          48.5        3.4
3. Nonsalary Costs                 4.0        1.3      5.3     0.1    0.0       0.1          23.8        0.5
Subtotal                       29.2      19.4     48.7      0.7     0.5      1.2          39.9       4.6
Total Recurrent Costs             62.2    220.5   282.7        1.4     5.3      5.7          78.0      26.9
TOTAL BASE COSTS                    282.3      768.7   1051.0     6.5    18.5    25.0           74.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies         26.3      70.0     96.3      0.6     1.7      2.3          72.7       9.2
Price Contingencies           619.9   1718.1  2337.9        0.9    2.0       2.9          68.0      11.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 928.4   2556.7  3485.2        8.1   22.2       30.2         73.3      120.8
Note: Figures may not add up to totals because of rounding.



- 20 -
4.6      Additional recurrent base costs consisting of expenditures for the
maintenance of facilities, salaries of additional staff, and other nonsalary
operating costs would be generated when the project becomes fully operational
in 1998, as follows: (i) YR 10.4 million from the maintenance of the physical
facilities in the seven project districts and nonsalary operational costs for
the health education and training programs, HIS, and improvement of drug
distribution and facilities maintenance; (ii) YR 5.4 million from salaries of
incremental staff; and (iii) US$1.0 million annually in foreign purchases of
essential drugs. If the MCH/FP upgrading pilot program supported by the
project were to be extended nationwide to about 110 districts (out of 245)
with populations greater than 60,000 (where the project interventions are
expected to be most cost-effective), the total incremental recurrent bill
would amount to about YR 120 million (excluding drugs). This additional
amount would constitute about 10 percent of the 1992 MOPH recurrent budget of
YR 2.5 billion (which had no allocation for essential drugs). Financial
projections assume that a 25 percent increase in the share of the health
sector in relation to total government expenditure (from four percent in 1992
to five percent by the year 2000) is feasible, assuming budget deficits
decline gradually, without relying on future oil revenues.5 The impact on
the MOPH budget of the project providing for the nationwide expansion of the
MCH/FP program is deemed sustainable within this context, even if the
incremental annual expenditures for essential drugs purchases supported by the
project were to be added. Further, the improved quality of MCH/FP services is
expected to increase utilization rates of health facilities and consequently
reduce unit costs.
B.   Proiect Financing
4.7      The proposed IDA credit of US$26.6 million equivalent would finance
100 percent of foreign exchange costs and about 20 percent of local costs.
The Government would finance the remaining 80 percent of local costs,
including taxes and duties. Project financing would be in accordance with
Table 4.3.
TABLE 4.3: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY (US$ million)
IDA      GOVERNMENT   T21aL    For.        Duties
Amount X Amount  X.  Amount X   Exch. Local 6 Tax.
A. Civil Works          8. 1  95    0.5    5    8.6   28    4.3  3.8   0.5
B. Equipment            6.6   99    0.1    1    6.6   22    6.3  0.3   0.1
C. Consultant Services  1.4  100    0.0    0    1.4    5    1.1  0.3   0.0
D. Architect/Engineer Fees  0.5  100   0.0    0    0.5    2   0.4  0.1  0.0
E. Pilot Studies        1.0  100    0.0    0    1.0    3    0.8  0.2   0.0
F. Studies              0.2  100    0.0    0    0.2    1    0.2  0.0   0.0
G. Fellowships          2.1  100    0.0    0    2.1    7    2.1  0.0   0.0
H. In-Country Training  1.0  67   0.5   33   1.5    5   0.4  1.1  0.0
I. Salaries             0.0    0    0.5   100   0.5    2   0.0   0.5   0.0
J. Pharmaceutical Products  5.7  91   0.6    9    6.3  21   6.0  0.3  0.0
K. Operation & Maintenance  0 0  0  1 5   100   _1. 5     5 _0   0.7  _W1
Total                26.6   88    3.6   12   30.2  100   22.2  7.4   0.7
Note: Figure. may not add up to totals because of rounding.
5. "Republic of Yemen Health Sector Review" (1993).



- 21 -
C.   Project Management and Implementation
4.8      The overall responsibility for the project would be with the Minister
of Public Health. Project implementation would be overseen by a Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC) chaired by the Vice Minister and composed of key
MOPH officials, each responsible for a major project activity, and a
representative from the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD). The PCC
would be assisted in overall project coordination by the existing Project
Management Office (PMO) which would serve as secretariat to the PCC. The PMO
would monitor project performance, accounts, expenditures, costs, and
compliance with IDA Guidelines; consolidate progress reports; and serve as the
MOPH contact agency with IDA. Implementation of project components would be
the responsibility of existing MOPH line departments, strengthened with the
appropriate technical assistance services where necessary. The project
management structure is shown in Annex 5. During negotiations, the Government
agreed that, by June 30, 1994, the PCC would be established and the PMO
technical coordinator for the project would be appointed.
4.9      The PMO would be the secretariat of the PCC.  The PMO would ensure
that planned implementation targets are met, oversee the timely scheduling and
phasing of the work programs of the various implementing units, and ensure
that project issues are addressed expeditiously or brought up to the attention
of the relevant authorities for resolution. The PMO would be responsible for
the following:
(a)   Liaison between implementing institutions within the MOPH, and
outside including MOPD, IDA and donor agencies, and organizing annual
and midterm joint reviews of project performance;
(b)   Consolidating all reports, including financial audit reports, and
forwarding these to all relevant institutions;
(c)   Managing project accounts, processing disbursements of IDA funds, and
ensuring that counterpart funds and other resources are made
available in a timely manner to implementing institutions;
(d)   Monitoring project costs and expenditures, and the performance of
contracts for goods and services; and
(e)   in cooperation with the DG of Purchasing and Storage, coordinate the
procurement, implementation and supervision of civil works,
equipment, and furniture contracts.
4.10     The specific implementation responsibilities are as follows:  The
Deputy Minister of Health Care and Services would be responsible for the
overall MCH/FP program. Implementation of the MCH/FP program in the project
districts would be coordinated by the DGs of Public Health and Medical
Services. Implementation of the training and health education components
would be coordinated by the DGs of Manpower Development and Health Education,
respectively. The Deputy Minister of Health Planning and Development would
have overall responsibility for the management and logistics component; he



- 22 -
would coordinate with the following: the DG of Planning, Statistics and
Follow-Up for the implementation of the HIS subcomponent; the Director of the
Research Unit for project monitoring, evaluation and pilot activities and
studies; the DG of Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies for the pharmaceuticals
subcomponent; the DG of Operation and Maintenance for the medical facilities
maintenance subcomponent; and the DG Finance for procurement of goods and
services for the project. The project provides technical assistance to
strengthen these units. Implementation charts by project component are in
Annex 6. In the project districts, implementation would be the responsibility
of the DMTs (para. 3.7). The functions of the DMTs are listed in Annex 7.
D. Procurement Arrangements
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
4.11     For ICB, relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as IDA shall have agreed to be necessary for purposes of
the project, will be used. Goods, including equipment, furniture, and
essential drugs estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per
package would be procured on a slice-and-package basis in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992) --
(Guidelines). In the evaluation and comparison of bids for goods, domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the
relevant duty, whichever is lower, in accordance with Appendix 2 of the
Guidelines. The amounts and methods of procurement are shown in Table 4.4.
Exceptions to ICB
4.12     The exceptions to ICB would be the following:
(a)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  Works contracts (US$8.6 million in
aggregate) would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures since the
contracts are small (ranging from US$20,000-US$200,000), widely
scattered geographically and, even when packaged, are unlikely to
attract foreign firms. Standard bidding documents agreed with IDA
will be used. LCB procedures will: (i) incorporate explicit state-
ments to bidders of qualification, bid evaluation and award proce-
dures; (ii) be advertised widely in local papers, with bid opening in
public; and (iii) not exclude the participation of interested bidders
from other IDA member countries.
(b)   International Shopping (IS).  Bid packages for goods estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 (US$400,000 in aggregate) and containing
small quantities of items of great variety, which would not be
expected to interest volume suppliers, may be awarded under IS
procedures, based on comparing price quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two countries eligible under the Guidelines
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c)   Technical Assistance (TA).  Qualified firms or institutions as well
as individual specialists, would be invited to submit proposals for a



- 23 -
comprehensive package of consultant services and fellowships in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency' (August
1981). It is intended that WHO, which is expected to continue with
the effective program of employing consultants and placing fellows
for appropriate overseas training, would be the single-source
provider of TA (about US$350,000) for the project's pharmaceuticals
subcomponent (para. 3.19) to be financed by the proposed credit;
consultant recruitment would be carried out in accordance with IDA
guidelines. TA would be contracted in keeping with the terms of
reference (TORs) and schedule agreed with IDA. The TA summary and
schedule are in Annex 8. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that letters of invitation for technical assistance would be issued
not later than September 30, 1994.
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ million)
Procurement Method
CATEGORY             ICB      LCB     OTHER      NBFa      TOTAL
Civil Works
(a)  Construction &       -        8.6                -          8.6
Rehabilitation       -       (8.1)b    -         -         (8.1)
(b)  Architectural-       -        -       0.5        -          0.5
Engineering Fees    -         -       (0.5)c     -         (0.5)
Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles & Materials       6.1        -       0.5        -         6.6
(6.1)      -      (0.4)d      -         (6.5)
Pilot Activities            -        -        1.0       -          1.0
-        _      (1.0)0      -        (1.0)
Consultant Services         -        -        1.4       -          1.4
-        -      (1.4)c      -        (1.4)
Studies                     -        -        0.2       -          0.2
-        -      (0.2)c      -        (0.2)
Fellowships                 -        -        2.1       -          2.1
-        -      (2.1)c      -        (2.1)
Local Training              -        -        1.5       -          1.5
-        -      (0.9)0      -        (0.9)
Essential Drugs            6.3       -         -        -          6.3
(5.9)      -        -         -        (5.9)
Staff Salaries              -        -         -       0.5         0.5
Operation & Maintenance    -          -        -       1.5         1.5
Financing Requirement    11.9       8.6       7.7      2.0        30.2
IDA Financing            (11.5)    (8.1)    (7.0)                (26.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
a. Non-IDA-financed categories.
b. Local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA.
c. Procuremont in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
d. International shopping for goods costing lose than US$100,000 per contract (aggregate
US$400,000).



- 24 -
Bid Documents and Contract Review
4.13     The Bank's standard bidding documents for works, goods, and technical
assistance procurement will be adapted for use under the project. IDA will
review: (i) the first ten bidding packages each for works and goods prior to
issuance of the bids; (ii) master lists of equipment; and (iii) packaging of
all bids and updated cost estimates. With respect to each contract for works,
goods and services valued at US$100,000 or more, the prior review procedures
described in paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. IDA
will review TORs and short lists for technical assistance contracts under
US$100,000 equivalent; above this threshold, IDA prior-review procedures will
apply. In the case of individual consultants, IDA will review the terms of
reference and contracts regardless of contract amount. It is estimated that
IDA prior review will cover 80 percent of the value of all contracts for
works, goods and services. The remaining contracts will be subject to
selective post-award reviews by IDA. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that standard bidding documents would be used for the procurement of
works and goods under international and local competitive bidding.
E. Disbursements
4.14     The project would be implemented over a period of six years (1994-
2000) and disbursed over a period of 6.5 years--l.5 years shorter than the
disbursement profile of the sector. This is deemed achievable because: (i)
the limited geographic coverage of the project (seven districts) would not
complicate implementation of civil works; (ii) the procurement of large
packages of equipment, technical assistance and essential drugs, which account
for about 70 percent of the credit proceeds, would be undertaken during the
first three years of the project; and (iii) technical assistance would be
provided to strengthen project management and all MOPH units in their
implementation tasks, particularly in procurement.
4.15     All disbursements will be fully documented except for contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent which could be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursement applications would be at a
minimum of US$50,000. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 9.
F. Project Accounts and Audits
4.16     For the project, the Government will establish, maintain and operate
a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the Central Bank, under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. IDA will deposit an initial amount of
US$0.5 million into the Special Account, which amount is judged adequate to
cover about four months of expenditure. The Special Account will be
replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance falls below 50 percent
or less of the amount of the Special Account. Monthly bank statements of the!
Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, will accompany
all replenishment requests.



- 25 -
4.17     Separate accounts for the project would be maintained by the PHO
which has the requisite accounting expertise. The Borrower is in compliance
with IDA audit reporting covenants; audit reports satisfying IDA requirements
are prepared annually by auditors acceptable to IDA, and the procedure would
be continued for the proposed project. Project accounts, including the
Special Account, would be audited in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). IDA would be provided by the Government, within six months of
the end of each fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as
IDA may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA, on disbursements against certified SOEs and on the
Special Account. The separate opinion would mention whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawal applications.
G. Proiect Supervision. ReRorting. and Evaluation
Supervision
4.18     IDA supervision would focus on: (i) the consistency of activities in
each component and subcomponent with agreements reached at appraisal; (ii)
performance of the implementing groups and institutions; and (iii) assessment
of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters. IDA would base
supervision on progress reports and annual evaluation of project activities,
supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial
resources, substantive discussions with TA specialists in the various
components, and discussions with MOPH officials. The supervision plan is in
Annex 10; project monitoring charts are in Annex 11.
ReRorting
4.19     The PMO, in collaboration with the Research Unit would prepare
semiannual reports on each project objective, component, and activity,
describing: (i) current implementation status versus the implementation plan;
(ii) deviations, if any, and reasons for deviations; and (iii) problems and
constraints, and the corrective actions being taken. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that before November 1 of each year, the Government will
prepare a technical-financial report on project expenditures to be incurred,
and actions to be undertaken during the following fiscal year in carrying out
the project, including budgetary allocations necessary to meet a part of the
cost of essential drugs. In addition, before March 1 of each year, the
Government will prepare a technical-financial report on expenditures incurred
and actions undertaken in carrying out the project during the preceding fiscal
year, including budgetary allocations necessary to meet a part of the cost of
essential drugs.
Midterm Review and Evaluation
4.20     In view of the pilot characteristics of elements of the project and
its intended future expansion nationwide, a midterm review of project



- 26 -
implementation would be conducted during the third year of project
implementation. The midterm review would: determine implementation progress
and ways to improve project operations; allow an opportunity to consider
desirable changes in policy, based upon experience during the initial period
and emergent sectoral needs at the time of review, and effect the necessary
midcourse adjustments in project components and procedures; and identify
possible follow-up operations for IDA's continued involvement in the sector.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) a report would be
submitted to IDA in preparation for the midterm review not later than March
31, 1996 or three months before the midterm review (whichever occurs earlier);
and (ii) during the midterm review, the Government would discuss and agree
with IDA a suitable action plan for the preparation of follow-up activities
for the project.
4.21     Within six months of the credit closing date, at IDA's request, the
PMO would compile and forward project data to IDA, for the preparation of a
Project Completion Report summarizing project performance and evaluating the
project's successes and problems.
H. Environmental Impact
4.22     The project is classified under the Environmental Category C: 'No
appreciable environmental impact." Civil works design will be reviewed by IDA
to ensure that the materials proposed for rehabilitation or construction are
environmentally sound; the construction contracts will specify that the
construction activities will be carried out in an environmentally sound
manner, and construction-associated wastes will be disposed of likewise. In
the pharmaceuticals subcomponent, the TA to be provided for the development of
a distribution plan for essential drugs will provide for their secure and safe
storage.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1      This project will improve the quality of existing health services Ln
general, and more specifically, improve the health conditions of people
deprived of adequate health services, targeting particularly women of
reproductive age and children, almost all of whom are poor. In addition, the
project will support women in development (WID) activities though the
provision of incentives (housing and fellowships) to attract and retain women
as health care providers. The longer term effects (reduced fertility and
lower population growth rates) will assist the Government's efforts to further
reduce disparities in living conditions, alleviate poverty, and slow the
deterioration of the environment.
A.   Benefits
5.2      The direct and immediate benefits of the project which would be
expected during the project implementation period would be: improved quality



- 27 -
and coverage of health care services for the estimated 906,000 people residing
in the seven project districts; greater number of trained staff as
approximately 7,000 personnel would be trained under the training component;
establishment of an efficient drug distribution system; and institutional
development at both the MOPH and district levels which would have a beneficial
effect on the population as a whole. Incentives to attract and retain women
as health care providers would include the opportunity to participate in the
fellowship program and the provision of housing at the health centers in the
seven project districts. The longer term benefits of the project would be the
establishment of a basis for more rapid expansion of quality health care
coverage; a model for a better delivery system based on the lessons learned
from the seven project districts and the pilot activities; the full benefits
of the training and health education subcomponents; and the full benefits of
the management improvements. The proposed project is expected to: (i)
increase the coverage and improve the quality of MCH/FP services; and (ii)
provide the basis for improving sector organization and management; thereby
improving the health status of the population, especially women and children,
among the rural poor. The project will assist the Government in improving the
quality of health care in the public sector. It will provide some safeguards
in terms of health care accessibility for the population at risk, particularly
in rural areas.
5.3      The regular availability of essential drugs, vaccines, FP materials
and equipment, apart from the advantage to the individual, provides numerous
benefits for the delivery of PHC. Without drugs, the number of patients
seeking care drops significantly. The availability of drugs gives credibility
to the staff and the system and cost-recovery schemes cannot be successfully
implemented until drugs are available on a regular basis. A national drug
policy, carefully implemented, will provide tangible benefits to the
population. Under the project, drugs should become cheaper and the
availability and quality should increase. Further, the information that will
be gleaned from analysis of the primary health care services developed in
selected districts and the project studies will provide valuable insight into
effective means of providing primary health care in Yemen. This information
will offer a unique tool for mounting future, possibly sector-wide, projects.
B.   Risks
5.4      The principal risks are the following.  (i) The recruitment and
retention of women in sufficient numbers as health care providers in the
requisite numbers may not be realized, for cultural and socioeconomic reasons.
This risk would be minimized by strengthening health education messages which
focus on women's participation in the health sector and by providing
incentives to women to encourage their participation in training (fellowships)
and to work in their own communities (housing). Moreover, the pilot study on
community participation would include an assessment of ways in which the
community might support women's participation in the delivery of services.
(ii) There could also be resistance to the implementation of a national drug
program because of a lucrative black market; mitigating the effects of this
risk are the Government's commitment to a national program as expressed
through the passage of appropriate legislation and the support of IDA and



- 28 -
other donors committed to the development of a national program. (iii) The
Government may not be able to finance the cost of maintaining facilities and
equipment (if the pilot program were implemented nationwide) and of essential
drugs; it is expected, however, that the country dialogue between IDA and the
Government will result in allocating additional resources to the health
sector, as well as more effective utilization of resources allocated to the
sector.
C.   Proiect Sustainability
5.5      The MOPH has played an integral role in the analysis and development
of the project, and project ownership by those responsible for implementation
is high. Further, the project components would be implemented by regular
units of the MOPH, ensuring operational continuity and institutional memory.
Project districts have been selected on the basis of accessibility, population
catchment area, existence of facilities, and availability of staff--factors
that contribute to the maintenance of sustained operations. In addition, to
the extent possible, the district management teams would be recruited from
regular MOPH staff at local levels. While incremental recurrent costs are
deemed sustainable (para. 4.6), Government investments are needed, to maintain
an acceptable supply of essential drugs in public health facilities in the
field.
VI. AGREED ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreed Actions
6.1      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)   Changes, if any, of project districts would conform to the criteria
agreed upon with IDA and would be submitted to IDA for approval; the
blood banking (hematology) consultant would propose alternative
measures to ensure the safety of blood collection and storage, the
recommendations of this analysis would be submitted to IDA, and
procurement of blood banking equipment would require IDA approval
(para. 3.10);
(b)   The PCC would be established and the PMO technical coordinator for
the project appointed by June 30, 1994 (para. 4.8); for each project
district, TSTs would be established at the corresponding governorate
health office, responsible for carrying out supervisory and training
activities (para. 3.14); and DMTs would be established in each of the
project districts and would consist of one physician, one midwife,
and one medical assistant or health inspector (para. 3.10);
(c)   Priority in the selection of trainees and fellows would be given to
staff and key managers, especially women, from the project districts;



- 29 -
upon completion of the training or fellowship, the trainee or awardee
would be required to serve a minimum service period (para. 3.10); and
an action plan for the establishment of a suitable procedure for
certification of primary health workers would be submitted to IDA by
June 30, 1994 (para. 3.14);
(d)   The National Drug Policy would be developed by June 30, 1993; the NDP
would be incorporated into the National Health Policy, which would be
submitted to the Ministerial Council during FY94; an essential drugs
list would be adopted by December 31, 1994; technical assistance
related to the pharmaceutical subsector would be coordinated with
assistance from WHO; the needed allocations for essential drugs for
the project would be provided out of the Government's own resources
and the technical-financial reports to be provided to IDA would
specifically include a review of the MOPH budget and the budgetary
allocation for drugs; and the study on cost sharing for
pharmaceuticals would be completed before the midterm project review.
(e)   Standard bidding documents would be used for the procurement of works
and goods under ICB and LCB (para. 4.13); letters of invitation for
technical assistance would be issued not later than September 30,
1994 (para. 4.12)
(f)   The Government would submit a report to IDA in preparation of the
midterm review not later than March 31, 1996 or three months before
the midterm review (whichever occurs earlier); and during the midterm
review, the Government would discuss and agree with IDA a suitable
action plan for the preparation of follow-up activities for the
project (para. 4.20).
B.   Recommendation
6.2      Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$26.6 million equivalent to the Government of the
Republic of Yemen.






- 31 -                              Annex 1
HEALTH EDUCATION
Overview
1.       To be effective in the context of Yemen, health education programs
must be designed to address the constraints imposed by a largely illiterate,
widely scattered population. The health needs of the country vary by region
and dialect variations limit one subgroup's understanding of another.
Further, messages are not always readily accepted in a culture with strong
ties to traditional practices and norms. However, the need for effective
health education programming is great in Yemen, and its potential as a means
for providing useful information to even the very rural areas is significant.
At the extremes, in areas which are not serviced by formal health services,
health education programming can equip those people with some basic tools to
better their health situation. Health education programming in Yemen is
developing at a significant pace. The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and
several donor agencies are committed to applying an effective strategy for the
delivery of quality, accessible health education messages to improve the
health status of the population.
Policy Context
2.       In an effort to expand the scope and availability of information in
general, two relevant policies have been drafted, pertaining to the
dissemination of information: the National Information Policy, and the Health
Education Policy.
(a)   National Information Policv.  This policy has been defined on
the principle that development information should be accessible
to all people. Steps to implementing this policy have
included: (i) decentralizing radio broadcasting; (ii) phasing
out censorship; and (iii) issuing licenses for reception of
international satellite TV broadcasts.
(b)   Health Education Policy.  The health education policy supports
the integral role health education can play in increasing
people's understanding of health-related issues. This
understanding will, in turn, increase the demand for services
and therefore enhance the role that health services can play in
the daily lives of the people. The policy also states that
health education programs should be designed to assist in the
achievement of the goals as stated at the National Population
Conference in 1991, which include reducing maternal and infant
mortality and increasing the use of, and availability to,
family health services. Further, the draft policy defines the
objectives of health education as empowering communities to:
(i) recognize health problems and how they are to be addressed;
(ii) understand what can be done to mobilize local resources in
response to a health need; (iii) take appropriate actions to
foster healthy living; and (iv) disseminate this knowledge to
others.



- 32 -                              Annex 1
Health Education StrateQv
3.       The national strategy has been, and continues to be, to provide the
population with health-related information to increase their awareness of, and
ability to address, health-related issues. To date, this strategy has
focussed on the use of quality, mass media messages (radio and television) to
access even the remote areas of the country. In a country where a reported 90
percent of the population have access to a radio, and 70 percent have access
to television, the use of mass media has served as a significant channel for
communication. Rationale for the use of mass media is further strengthened by
the fact that a significant portion of the population is illiterate, and
therefore would not have access to messages delivered through written
material.
4.       The use of interpersonal communication as a channel for health
education has been designated as the next step for the development of a
comprehensive health education program. The MOPH, with assistance from donor
agencies, has initiated programs to develop the human resources needed for
interpersonal communication and providing basic equipment for the messages to
be carried out to even the remote areas of the country. In addition,
consistent with the need for greater emphasis on interpersonal communication,
decentralization of health education programming has been defined as a
priority. Health education offices have been established and staffed in all
the governorate to facilitate the identification of regional-specific health
priorities and designing programs which target these specific needs.
Directorate-General of Health Education and Communication
5.       Health education is managed by the Directorate-General of Health
Education and Communication of the MOPH, with headquarters in Sanaa and
supported by 10 branches in different governorate (Attachment 1). The
Director General of Health Education reports directly to the Minister of
Public Health yet is also supposed to liaise closely with the other
directorates-general of the MOPH to ensure that health messages reflect the
needs of the sector.
6.       The central office of the Directorate-General in Sanaa is staffed by
17 persons (technicians, administrators, and services personnel), of which
only five have received post-secondary degrees. The facilities in Sanaa
include a television studio and field unit, a production booth for radio
programs, printing press, and video production facility provided by IDA
(Credit 1254-YAR). Of the 46 communication channels identified by the
Directorate for conveying health education messages, 12 are currently in use.
These channels include: (i) mass media (television and radio); (ii) the
school; (iii) printed material (booklets and posters); and (iv) community and
religious leaders.
7.       Examples of the Directorate's activities include the production of a
weekly half-hour television program and daily five minute television "spots"
which have been produced since September 1990. In addition, the Directorate
produces a daily five-minute radio program which has been in production since
1976.



-33 -                                Annex 1
Program DeveloDment
8.       Health education messages are designed centrally (at the Sanaa
office) based on the priorities defined by the MOPH, redefined by input from
six or seven focus groups in Sanaa and subsequently by assessment of the
specific needs of each governorate as specified by the health education team
working in each governorate. The content of the messages are then developed
to address either a broad public health or social issue or to respond to a
specific need of a defined target community. A thorough review of the context
of the messages is carried out by pretesting of the radio and TV programs to
ensure that the programs are understood. Recognizing the need to target a
largely illiterate audience, people who cannot read are among those included
in the pretesting audience and changes in the program are incorporated
accordingly.   After eight to ten months, a sample of the programs are subject
to field testing. At this stage, teams are sent to rural areas to measure the
understanding of the education provided and new programs are designed based on
the assessed effectiveness of the mass media channel.
9.       Since 1989 the Directorate-General has been engaged in capacity
building to implement social mobilization strategies. To this end, the health
education program has received further boost by an active collaboration with
UNICEF and USAID/Healthcom (para. 11) in developing programs for social
mobilization and demand creation. The Directorate has, since 1989, had
varying degrees of coordination with: the Ministries of Information, Youth and
Sport, Education, Housing and Urban Planning, Social Affairs, Agriculture, and
Municipality; the Environment Protection Council; and the Yemeni Women's
Union. Further, collaboration with donor agencies is significant (see para.
12).
Evaluation
10.      The lack of well designed evaluation studies to assess the health
education programs is one of the concerns expressed about the Health Education
Directorate. Television programs are subject to several stages of refinement,
and therefore the content of the program is subject to some scrutiny.
However, evaluation of the actual impact the health messages are having on the
population's health habits has been minimal.
II.      One of the few formal reviews of health education programming was
"The Healthcom Project", supported by USAID and conducted in collaboration
with the Health Education Directorate. Healthcom was designed to assess the
health practices, beliefs, and values of people living in rural communities as
a measure of the impact of mass media health education programming. From June
through August 1991, 129 mothers of 16 rural villages (four governorates)
participated in focus groups. Discussions centered around priority childhood
diseases and what treatments the mothers follow when their child becomes ill.
Also queried was how the mothers learned of these treatments, i.e.., were the
mass media health education programs having an impact on behavior. With
respect to the televised health education campaign, it was found that 56
percent of the mothers "never watch" the television program, while only 30
percent "sometimes watch". Television and radio were listed as one of the
numerous sources of information for diagnosis and treatment. The assessment
concludes that: (i) mass media programs must be aired at appropriate times of
the day; (ii) health education messages should come from a variety of



- 34 -                              Annex 1
spokespersons, i.e., women look to numerous sources for advice on health care;
and (iii) education strategies must be carefully targeted, e.g., other words
are often used instead of diarrhea.
Multilateral Suooort to Health Education
12.      There are several multilateral agencies involved in the development
of the health education program. As described above, USAID supported the
Healthcom Project. In addition, an IDA credit (Credit 1294-YAR) provided the
funds for the video production facility in Sanaa. The Japanese Government
supported training of technicians for the maintenance of the video equipment,
and the Government of Jordan financed training for offset printing
maintenance.
13.      UNICEF.  UNICEF has collaborated with, and supported, the Health
Education Directorate for the production of newsletters and other printed
material (including "Facts for Life") targeting women and children, a resource
library, television spots promoting oral rehydration therapy and immunization
campaigns, and radio programs. During October 1991-December 1992, UNICEF
support included: (i) providing equipment for a modest radio recording studio
at the Health Education Directorate; (ii) providing training for a staff
member of the directorate in desktop publishing; (iii) providing a workshop
for the 16 governorate-level directors of health education; (iv) developing a
national version of the Facts for Life booklet which will allow the health
messages to be specifically targeted at the Yemeni society; and (v) organizing
focus groups to disseminate the messages from the Facts for Life booklet.
UNICEF's 1993-1997 (US$2.5 million) program for communication and social
mobilization consists of three sub-projects: development of the communication
capacity of agencies promoting child survival and the education of girls;
fostering environmental awareness by assisting environmental groups in the
dissemination of information on environmental matters affecting child
survival; and development of the capacity of women's organizations to enhance
the role of women in child survival and the education of girls.
14.      UNFPA.  UNFPA's 1992-1997 program will provide US$2.7 million for
information, education, and communication (IEC) activities. These activities
will include: (i) collaborating with the Ministry of Education to integrate
population concepts into textbooks and teacher training material; (ii)
training extension workers in population-related topics; (iii) designing
training programs for planning and producing population messages for the radio
and television; and (iv) researching socially acceptable approaches for
addressing population and developmental issues.
15.      WHO.  During 1992/93, WHO has, and will continue to, provide
equipment to the Directorate, support field activities, and provide for
training of health educators as defined by the Directorate's plan of action.
The 1994/95
WHO supported activities will focus on the Directorate's objective to
decentralize health education programming. Therefore, WHO will support the
provision of supplies and equipment for the governorate-level offices, the
production of additional training materials, and finance field activities.



-35 -                                Annex 1
Issues
16.      Content
(a)   Health education programming (radio, television, and print),
have addressed general primary health care concerns (with
support from WHO), child survival issues (with support from
UNICEF), and family planning (with support from UNFPA). There
is a need for additional coverage of the issues pertaining
particularly to women, especially maternal health and the
participation of women in the health sector, both as users and
providers of services.
(b)   Each village has its felt needs (mostly relating to water,
electricity, roads and community centers). These needs are
often not effectively coordinated with those health needs
perceived by program promoters (e.g., communicable disease
control, family planning, etc.). To maximize the effectiveness
of interpersonal communication to achieve health goals,
particularly family health goals, close attention should be
directed to developing a relationship between community
expressed needs and health promotion activities.
17.      Strategy
(a)   Even as media delivery needs strengthening, the already
initiated Directorate's activities in person-to-person delivery
of health messages (proven to be effective elsewhere) needs
strengthening.
(b)   The Directorate needs to develop its research and evaluation
capacity.
(c)   Further, the link to the Ministry of Education must be
strengthened as textbooks and teacher training (supported by
IDA Credit 2222-YEM) can be powerful IEC channels.
(d)   Several issues related to the use of television as a means to
convey health education messages have been raised: (i) in some
areas, television is accessible primarily to the men; (ii) many
women are asleep by the time the program is aired or too busy
with household chores to watch; and (iii) televisions are less
numerous than radios, and therefore if the television set is
not functional, a greater percentage of the target audience
becomes inaccessible.
18.      Management
(a)   The Director General of Health Education reports directly to
the Minister of Public Health. The nature of health education
requires continuous interaction between that directorate and
the other services and program areas of MOPH, particularly
those relating to PHC. Evidence, however, shows that although
a fair measure of coordination exists in the designing of



- 36 -                              Annex 1
health messages, there is less supportive evidence of
continuous interaction between health education and the other
relevant directorates in terms of feedback and cooperation.
(b)   Although staff at the facility in Sanaa are motivated, the
staffing level is low (of 17 staff, only five have post-
secondary qualification). Further, the magnitude of health
education programming requires additional technically competent
and creative staff. Identified categories of staff which would
strengthen the health education program include scriptwriters,
graphic artists, etc.
19.      Impact
Although mass media as a tool for health education is
significant (90 percent of the population has access to a radio
while 70 percent of the population has access to a television),
behavioral changes overall are still unsatisfactory. The lack
of interpersonal IEC contact, especially in the rural areas, to
reinforce mass media messages appears to be the overriding
problem.
Attachment 1
DIRECTORATE-GENERAL OF HEALTH EDUCATION ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister of Public Health
Director-General
Deputy Director-General
Director of    Director ofDirector ofDirector of
Cooperation    ProductionHealth EducationHealth Communication
- TV Programming- Program- News
Section Planning Section
Section
- Documentation- Production- Magazine
Section of Programs Section
Section
- Commercial- Procurement- Evaluation
Production Section and Research
Section Section
Source: MOPH



- 37 -                               Annex 2
THE PHARMACEUTICAL SUBSECTOR
Overview
1.       Yemen's national drug bill is large.  A recent estimate based on MOPH
data (1991-92) indicates a retail turnover of about US$134 million (import
cost US$88 million) and a public sector expenditure of about US$24 million,
including bilateral aid and UNICEF vaccines but excluding the value of FP
drugs, medical equipment and TB drugs. This equates with an annual average
cost of US$12 per person or a staggering US$80 for the average household of
6.7 people. A recent survey (December 1992) indicates that patients may spend
as much as 10 percent of their income on health, mostly on the purchase of
drugs. This figure is higher than in most countries with comparable GNP,
where the annual per capita cost of drugs is US$2-$3 (e.g., Kenya, Zimbabwe,
Nigeria). The average per capita drug bill is more similar to the former
Soviet Union with an annual per capita cost of about US$20. There are
numerous reasons for the high expenditure on drugs. Patients are very drug
oriented, and frequently prefer expensive injections over the less expensive
pills. The lack of drugs in the public sector also forces people to buy more
expensive drugs in the private sector. There are over 1,300 private
pharmacies and drugs stores and the number is steadily increasing,
particularly in the south, which prior to unification did not have private
practice. A lack of regulation and control contributes both to high drug
prices and to uneven quality of products in the market.
2.       About 4,200 drugs are registered in Yemen; however, the MOPH
estimates that only about 1,100 different products are imported in a given
year. The Supreme Board of Drugs and Medical Appliances (SBDMA) is the drug
and equipment regulatory agency, for both the public and the private sector.
It is responsible for registration, quality control, inspection, pricing,
licensing of drug companies, importers and pharmacies. The MOPH Directorate
General of Drugs and Medical Supplies is responsible for all procurement,
storage, distribution and use of drugs in the public health facilities. SBDMA
claims that priority in licensing is given to imports of essential and low-
cost drugs. However, this is not always reflected in the selection of drugs
available in private pharmacies.
3.       The public sector also receives donated drugs.  Almost all donations
come to the MOPH, but separate programs keep separate stores and are
responsible for the control of the stores, distribution and reporting.
Vaccines for the EPI program are all provided by UNICEF. The program is
completely separate from the MOPH drug distribution system, although UNICEF is
now planning to gradually integrate it into the general distribution and
health delivery system. In 1991, German emergency drug supplies bypassed the
central stores and were shipped directly to the governorates.
Local manufacturinQ
4.       The 51 percent state-owned Yemen Drug Company for Industry and
Commerce (YEDCO), in 1991, produced a turnover amounting to US$15 million and
trade in pharmaceutical products amounted to an additional US$15 million.
YEDCO has 10 branches with stores and 12 retail pharmacies. The company



-38 -                               Annex 2
produces some 58 different products, including Oral Rehydration Salts under an
agreement with UNICEF. The company has excess capacity and could easily be
contracted to produce as much as 25-30 percent of the essential drugs required
for the MOPH. It would be able to handle kit packaging as well. A large new
YEDCO plant for intra-venous solutions is almost complete, which will allow
Yemen to become self-sufficient and allow for considerable export as well.
Five more production facilities are being built, one of which will produce
disposable syringes. Six companies have received SBDMA approval for
production, but lack permission from the General Investment Authority. Some
24 more applications are pending. There is no overall policy on local drug
and medical equipment manufacturing.
Logistics system
5.       The procurement, storage and distribution of most pharmaceutical
products, medical equipment and other medical goods is the responsibility of
the MOPH. The military health service, the El-Thawra Hospital, YEDCO, the
National Drug Company (NDC) and the private health sector all have separate
logistics systems. In Aden, the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services and
Medical Supplies controls public sector importation and monitors the quality
of drugs for the six southern governorates, which enter through the port of
Aden.
6.       There are three main medical and equipment stores (the largest in
Sana'a) and a number of regional stores. The Aden store uses a computerized
inventory control system, but all other central and regional stores use a
manual system. Each governorate health office has a medical and equipment
store, although these are often in a state of disrepair and unsuitable for
their intended purpose. A number of medical stores have been constructed
under earlier World Bank credits and the World Bank Health Sector Development
Project (Credit 2151) provides for the construction of an additional nine
pharmaceutical stores and maintenance workshops. When all the medical stores
to be repaired or constructed under the credit are completed, the capacity
will be sufficient for the volume of drugs and equipment in the public sector.
However, the procedures for procurement, storage and distribution are
inadequate and need much improvement.
7.       Drug and equipment projections by the MOPH are based on past
consumption and infrequent exercises to determine requirements (the last was
in 1989) based on disease patterns, past consumption and patient attendance.
Drugs and equipment are procured by tender from foreign suppliers, YEDCO, NDC
or local agents. Tender procedures are cumbersome and lengthy. Smaller
supplements are procured locally from traders or pharmacies at the central,
governorate and district levels. Distribution of drugs, vaccines and
equipment is done at the request of programs (EPI, TB, PHC) or governorate
health offices, hospitals and health centers. The PHC program supplies
prepackaged kits (when in stock) separately to health units.
8.       Family olanninq suDplies.  UNFPA procures all contraceptives for the
public sector. Procurement is based on records of past consumption, and
Ministry and UNFPA projections. FP drugs and materials are distributed upon
request from the governorates and after approval by the MCH program in the
Ministry. There is little evidence that contraceptives reach the rural health
units on a regular basis. However, the recording system is too weak to



- 39-                               Annex 2
determine the degree to which supplies are actually reaching their destination
or meeting demand. Private pharmacies carry several different contraceptives
and these are obtainable without prescription.
Issues
9.       Lack of druQs.  There are organizational and management problems
across all sub-sectors of Yemen's fragmented health care system. However, the
failure to deliver essential drugs, vaccines, FP supplies and other medical
equipment has serious ramifications for the entire PHC system. The failure of
government drug procurement in 1989, 1990 and 1991 has starved the county of
public sector drugs for the last few years. A repeat failure in 1993 may
result in new shortages in 1994. The present shortage was illustrated in the
survey of Basic Health Service Facilities (March 1992) where it was found that
11 percent of facilities are completely without drugs and an additional 28
percent have less than ten items in stock. A recent survey in Dhamar found
several units which had been without drugs for about two years. The 1992
survey on people's willingness to pay for medical services showed that 25
percent of those using the private health sector gave the lack of public
sector drugs as the main reason. The credibility of the public health system
is declining, and in the absence of vital drugs and basic medical supplies,
other critical elements of the primary health care program cannot be
delivered. Since the distribution system has not had sufficient drug and
equipment supplies for many years, it is difficult to determine whether it
could handle the distribution of all needed drugs to all facilities.
10.      The MOPH's logistics system suffers from a lack of coherent policies
and guidelines and the continued difficulties of merging the two pre-
unification systems. There have been numerous reports and improvement
proposals in the past. However, very few steps have been taken to improve the
management of the stores and distribution system. The near collapse of the
system is a result of both the lack of foreign exchange and the inherent
deficiencies in the system. Severe shortages over the last few years have
only been partly alleviated by emergency supplies from the Netherlands,
Germany, and U.N. agencies.
11.      Lack of a national druQ nroQram.  Prior to 1990, the essential drug
supply situation in PDRY was considered quite satisfactory. In 1985, an
effort was begun in PDRY, with support from WHO, to develop a national drug
program integrating the essential elements of successful procurement,
distribution and dispensing systems. Today, however, the essential drugs
program in the six southern governorates is moribund for lack of a recurrent
budget.
12.      Prior to unification, WHO provided technical input to YAR for the
pharmaceutical sector and large consignments of drugs were received from the
Netherlands and Germany. Despite these efforts, the drug supply situation in
YAR was far from satisfactory. In 1988 a WHO consultant estimated that only
20 to 30 percent of requirements were supplied, and of the supplies received,
most were routed to hospitals rather than to health centers and units. In
1988, the situation improved with the donation of drug kits from the Dutch
government. In the following years (1989, 1990 and 1991) the public sector
drug budget was reduced to nearly zero.



- 40 -                              Annex 2
13.      Despite external efforts and the relative success of the PDRY
program, a YAR national essential drug program never took hold in the public
sector and was largely disregarded by the private sector. This situation was
caused by a number of complex factors: (i) the lack of political support for,
and inability to, establish a National Drug Policy; (ii) priority allocation
of foreign exchange to the private sector, although the public sector could
import similar quantities of drugs for a fraction of the cost; (iii)
resistance from the medical and pharmaceutical community to accept the
essential drugs concept; and (iv) a worsening economic situation and
inadequate control of the drug sector.
14.      At the present time, the concept of essential drugs is still being
actively discussed in the Ministry and some of the main elements are still in
existence in the MOPH, although not applied on a wider scale. The Ministry
follows a set of routines and principles which bear some resemblance to a drug
policy. There is, for example, a unified National List of Essential Drugs
(Taiz 1991) with 314 items. It has never been finalized, printed or
distributed. Nevertheless, it is followed to a large degree in MOPH tenders
and partly when granting import licences.
15.      Since late 1992 several positive developments have taken place.  In
December 1992 a workshop on drug policy produced a draft National Drug Policy
for the Republic of Yemen. A summary of the policy will be included in the
overall health policy document, soon to be submitted to the Ministerial
Council for approval. The draft drug policy needs additional technical work,
but should be ready for submission in mid-1994. The National Essential Drugs
list has been submitted to WHO for technical editing and printing. Drug
legislation and regulations are also being processed. During the last three
months the MOPH has also produced a comprehensive Plan of Action for a
National Pharmaceutical Program for 1993-1996. Its implementation will
require technical assistance and additional financing. However, it contains
all the basic elements of a good national program and its implementation could
result in a dramatic improvement in the whole pharmaceutical and equipment
subsector. It is also proposed to establish a Council of Pharmaceutical and
Medical Appliances with membership for all concerned ministries and the
private sector. This new council would coordinate all pharmaceutical policies
and would perhaps absorb some of the functions of the SBDMA.
16.      The proposed national plan will cost about US$7.7 million (1993-1996)
plus an annual drug and equipment cost of about US$21.0 million (using WHO's
estimate of US$1 for essential drugs and US$0.5 for equipment and consumables
per person per year). The proposed plan budget would finance: technical
assistance and training in: (i) drug policy and management; (ii) quality
assurance; (iii) quantification, procurement, storage and distribution, local
production and packaging of kits; (iv) rational use of drugs; and (v)
operational research and (vi) program management (including a WHO
coordinator).
17.      The plan of action will require not only political commitment, but
also assurances that the drug and equipment budget will be released in the
first half of each year and in foreign exchange. In 1993 WHO will provide
technical assistance in support of the NDP for about US$250,000.



- 41 -                              Annex 2
18.      Procurement.  MOPH's logistics problems are symptomatic of many of
its organizational and managerial difficulties. Procurement of drugs and
equipment has become increasingly cumbersome. Decisions require input from
the MOPH, the MOF and the MOP as well as the Prime Minister's office. As a
result, the 1991 tender took 15 months to complete and required 14 separate
stages and committee decisions. About 20 percent of the budget was lost when
the process continued into FY92. In the end the prices obtained were higher
than on the international generic drug market.
19.      The 1991 tender drugs, emergency supplies and kits for PHC have
started arriving. The current stock situation is improving and there may be
sufficient drugs in stock and in the pipeline for the first eight to nine
months of 1993. There are also some prospects of German emergency donations,
which will stretch the supplies into early 1994. The projected supplies are,
however, insufficient to build-up a much needed buffer stock at central and
governorate levels. A buffer stock should cover the drug needs for three to
six months and would cost between five and ten million dollars to build up.
20.      For the 1992 tender, the MOPH had decided to use WHO for
international drug procurement, assuming that the US$12 million budget would
be available. However, the MOF, despite appeals from the Prime Minister, did
not release any foreign exchange. This was the fourth time in five years that
the MOPH was unable to tender for essential drugs and equipment for its rural
health services.
21.      A new tender for 1993 is nearly complete.  It is estimated at close
to US$15 million and it would be sufficient to supply all hospitals and most
health centers and units in the south, but not all health centers and units in
the north. The estimated shortfall is US$6-7 million, which the MOPH expects
to be taken up by donations from Germany and the Netherlands. However, the
MOF may decide, as it did in 1992, to deduct the value of drug donations from
the MOPH's budget for drugs and equipment (YR 265 million for 1993 equal to
US$14.7 million at the commercial rate of YR18 to US$1.0). The issue of
assured foreign exchange for essential drug and equipment must be addressed
soon. Failure to tender early in 1993 will give shortages in early 1994. It
is unlikely that donors will continue to compensate for drug shortages on a
continuous emergency basis.
22.      Druq smuqalinQ.  The present licensing and pricing practices
discourage legal imports and a conservative estimate indicates that at least
30 percent of all private sector drugs are smuggled, the equivalent of about
US$40 million in retail prices. Few, if any, countries have such a high
proportion of completely uncontrolled drug imports. Smuggled drugs are
generally considerably cheaper than legally imported drugs - about half the
price. Some contraceptive pills sell at one-third of the legal import price.
A further incentive for smuggling is tax evasion. Invoices for legal drugs
are accessible to the tax authorities, but the sale of smuggled drugs is
without documentation. Hence, the black market provides private pharmacies
with an easy means to procure less expensive drugs and to increase their
profit.
23.      PricinQ.  In the past, all prices were printed on the package.  This
has now, out of necessity, been replaced by price stickers affixed by the
agent. Agents do not like this system, since inflation and currency



- 42 -                              Annex 2
fluctuations must be borne by them. However, it is the general impression
that pharmacy owners are quite satisfied with fixed prices - if for no other
reason than to avoid lengthy discussions with clients. Any price-fixing
system which is based on the cost when the product arrives at the import
station will, all else being equal, tempt agents and importers to procure at
the expensive end of the market - perhaps even striking a deal with the
exporter to over-invoice. An improved pricing system could be based on prices
published regularly by international organizations (UNICEF, International
Dispensary Agency and Management Sciences for Health) and allow for a certain
percentage mark-up based on these prices and disregarding invoices prices, at
least for drugs on the national essential drugs list.
24.      Irrational usaae of drucrs.  Irrational use of drugs is common, both
in the public and the private sector. Health workers lack both training and
therapeutic guidelines for the proper drug treatment following diagnosis.
Doctors are appreciated for their ability to prescribe many drugs. Patients
are drug oriented and most drugs can be bought over the counter, following a
brief dialogue with the pharmacist or drug seller. A conservative estimate
shows that about 40 percent of drugs are irrational combinations, needless
injections or completely outside the concept of essential drugs.



-43 -                               Annex 3
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO THE HEALTH SECTOR
Overview
1.       External assistance continues to play an important and increasingly
significant role in the development of health services in Yemen. It is
estimated that about 20 percent of all health expenditures are financed by
over 20 different foreign agencies. According to the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), disbursements of US$15.5 million (55 percent of
the foreign assistance to the sector) were for primary health care (PHC) in
1991. In an effort to coordinate the external assistance to the sector, the
Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) has initiated efforts to
facilitate coordination, and a directorate of technical cooperation has been
established in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH). This annex reviews the
assistance provided by the principle sources of external assistance to the
sector.
International Development Agency (IDA)
2.       Since 1982, there have been two health sector credits in the former
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) and two health sector credits for
the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). Two of these credits (one in the PDRY
and one in the YAR, amounting to US$16.1 million in IDA financing) have been
completed; the two other projects (amounting to US$19.5 million in IDA
credits) are ongoing.
3.       For the northern governorates, the First Health Project (Credit 1294-
YAR), completed in 1989 at a cost of US$7.9 million in IDA credits built
essential infrastructure and provided for training of basic health care
personnel. The ongoing Health Sector Development Project (Credit 2151-YEM for
US$15 million) is financing construction of training institutions (the Health
Manpower Institutes), drug warehouses in selected governorates, and medical
equipment maintenance workshops. For the southern governorates, the Health
Development Project (Credit 1377-YDR), completed in 1989 at a cost of US$8.2
million in IDA credits (with US$7.3 million in additional financing from the
Islamic Development Bank, the Government of Norway, WHO, and UNICEF)
established PHC facilities in Abyan, Lahej, and Hadramout. The ongoing Second
Health Development Project (Credit 1972-YEM for US$4.5 million) is
constructing PHC facilities in Aden, Shabwa, and Al-Mahra.
4.       IDA assumed the leading responsibility for undertaking in 1992 a
comprehensive study of the sector, in collaboration with UN and bilateral
donors active in Yemen; the study was complemented by the MOPH's own 1992
nationwide survey of health facilities and manpower. IDA has since agreed
with the Government that its own assistance would, building on four prior
projects in the sector, focus on the improvement of the effectiveness and
quality of health service delivery.



- 44 -                               Annex 3
United Nations DeveloDment Program (UNDP)
5.       UNDP has been active in Yemen since the early 1970's in the PDRY and
the YAR. Under its current program, health programs are not singled out for
support, however, a request to support strengthening district health services
will be negotiated further with the Yemeni authorities.
World Health Organization (WHO)
6.       The World Health Organization (WHO) has been actively involved with
the health sector of Yemen since the early 1970's in PDRY and since the late
1960's in YAR. WHO continues to work closely with the Government of Yemen for
the attainment of health for all through support to various national programs
by providing consultants, fellowships and study tours, equipment and
materials, workshops, consultants, and studies. There are currently over 35
different programs sponsored by WHO in Yemen. The programs address such
topics as health education, human resources development for management and
health services delivery, maternal and child health (MCH), nutrition, malaria
control, and essential drugs and vaccines. From 1992-93, WHO invested US$4.5
million in the health sector, and support for 1994-95 will be over US$5
million.
7.       WHO support to MCH for 1992/93 includes a fellowship in the
management of MCH services, training of primary health care workers in MCH/FP,
development of an expanded program on immunization (EPI) surveillance system,
and printing child growth charts. For health education, a workshop to assess
program performance and the development of innovative means to improve the
delivery of health messages will be sponsored. WHO has been actively involved
in the development of a national drug policy and revision of the essential
drug list, as well as sponsoring training courses in management of drug
storage facilities and rational use of drugs. For 1994-95, WHO will support
EPI, diarrheal disease control and nutrition programs, and health education,
as well as to strengthen training at medical facilities and health manpower
institutes. In addition, WHO will continue to support the managerial
development efforts of the MOPH, and to develop the research capacity of the
MOPH.
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
8.       UNICEF has been active in the health sector since the early 1970s in
both PDRY and the YAR. Throughout the world, UNICEF's primary focus is on
bettering the lives of children, as well as mothers. The three primary
programs for UNICEF's 1993-1997 activities in Yemen are: (i) primary health
care; (ii) EPI; and (iii) oral rehydration therapy (ORT), and the total
planned budget for the activities is US$8.2 million.
9.       Of particular interest to the proposed project is the UNICEF project
"Communication and Social Mobilization" for messages on child survival. This
project has three sub-components: (i) developing the effectiveness of key
communication agents; (ii) fostering environmental awareness for child
survival; and (iii) developing the communications capacity of women's
organizations. Developing the effectiveness of communication agents will
involve working with the Health Education Directorate of the MOPH and the
Television and Radio Corporation of the Ministry of Information to develop new



- 45 -                              Annex 3
radio and television program formats for child survival messages. In
addition, "Facts for Life", a booklet on child survival, will be disseminated
widely and used as a resource for additional educational material. Assistance
will be provided to establish health education units in selected governorates,
surveys to assess audience profiles and assess radio and television coverage
will be assessed, and training of health communicators will be supported.
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
10.      The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) serves a
principal role in assisting the Government in the definition and
implementation of its population strategy. UNFPA's strategy for 1992-1996 can
be grouped under four types of programs: (i) US$3.8 million for the
development of data collection, processing and analysis capabilities as well
as policy development, both in terms of training of staff and the provision of
equipment; (ii) US$5.2 million for MCH/family planning (FP) activities; (iii)
US$2.0 million for women in development activities; and (iv) US$2.7 million
for the development of information and education programs.
11.      The MCH/FP program includes manpower development on the level of pre-
service training (technical support for the expansion of MCH/FP courses in
both the medical and para-medical training programs, and outreach training of
traditional birth attendants and female primary health care workers), and in-
service training (the development of trainers for female primary health care
workers and traditional birth attendants, and programs for medical personnel
on family planning methods). The MCH/FP program will also support the
initiation of governorate-level training teams for planning, monitoring, and
evaluating MCH/FP activities, provide contraceptives to the health sector, and
finance basic equipment for safe motherhood activities at the health unit
level.
12.      The women in development program will include support for
information, education and communication (IEC) and literacy activities of the
Women's Association and gender-specific research. The IEC program will
include support to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher
Education for inclusion of population-related topics in textbooks,
interpersonal communication activities (training extension workers in social
communication, strengthening the delivery of population-related messages in
television and radio programming, and training activities at the grassroots
level).
Netherlands Development Orqanization
13.      The Netherlands Development Organization is currently supporting
three health related projects, all scheduled for completion in 1996. The
"Rada Primary Health Care Project" was initiated in 1982 with support from the
Swiss Government and came under Dutch assistance in 1988. The project evolved
from the construction of a PHC center adjacent to a hospital to facilitate the
interaction between preventive and curative health services. Following
treatment at the hospital, patients are referred to the PHC center for such
services as nutrition counselling and health education. Outreach activities,
such as vaccination campaigns through a mobile team, were designed to generate
awareness of preventive health and generate community commitment for such
activities. The next phase was to recruit girls from the villages to become
primary health care workers (PHCWs). The community was provided with a



- 46 -                              Annex 3
primary health care unit (PHCU) once the girl recruited for the program had
successfully completed her training, and to date 20 PHCUs are operational, and
construction of another nine is scheduled for 1993-94. The project also
supports midwifery and male primary health care worker training programs at
the Health Manpower Institutes and training health centers.
14.      A second project "The Hodeidah Urban Primary Health Care Project",
started in 1988, focusses on slum areas and trains women in MCH and preventive
health practices and literacy. The project supports two maternal and child
health clinics and emphasizes outreach activities in the form of home visits.
The third project, "The Dhamar Rural Health Project", started in 1986,
supports five health centers and training activities for male and female
primary health care workers.
15.      A primary health care project in Shabwa is in the preparatory stage
and a memorandum of understanding is being discussed. This proposed project
would involve renovating the existing hospital, providing staff training at
the health manpower institute, reinforcing management capacity at the health
center level, and strengthening the delivery of services at the health unit
level. The Netherlands Development Organization will also support the
essential drugs program and is working in collaboration with the Japanese on a
national tuberculosis control program.
Federal Republic of Germanv (GTZ)
16.      GTZ assistance to the health sector of Yemen dates back to the early
1980s. With respect to maternal and child health (MCH), the principal project
is "the Integrated Development of Rural Health Services in the Amran Region",
which was launched in 1982 and is expected to be turned over to the Yemenis by
1995. The goal of this project is to improve the delivery of health services,
particularly MCH services, to the rural population of Amran where 60 health
units are in operation and 40 are not functional. In addition to upgrading
these health units, the project provides training for female primary health
care workers and traditional birth attendants to staff the health unit. Since
1982, health education, literacy, and school health components have been added
to the project. In response to a request from the MOPH, GTZ has sent a
consultant to work with the MOPH in 1993 for a four year period to develop
management programs and practices.
17.      Another GTZ program is in support of family planning in Ibb and
Abyan. At the governorate level, the health and health education officers
work in collaboration with representatives from various non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) to develop an education program on health and family
planning. The project also supports the provision of contraceptives. The
total bill for the GTZ sponsored drug program for 1993 is estimated at 7
million DM.
Radda Barnen - Swedish Save the Children (RB)
18.      Radda Barnen (RB) has been involved in the development of MCH
services in Yemen since 1963 in YAR, and 1976 in PDRY. All of the programs
with which RB is involved are guided by the WHO Declaration of Health for All
(1978) and by the UN Declaration on the Rights of Children and coordination is
done primarily through support of local non-governmental organizations. In



-47 -                               Annex 3
1963 in YAR, RB supported a BCG vaccination campaign in Taiz, followed by the
opening of a MCH clinic and small hospital for children in the same
governorate.  The number of clinics supported by RB increased in the YAR, and
in 1975 RB began its support to MCH clinics in four governorates of PDRY.
During the 1980's, support was focussed on three MCH clinics in YAR which
served as a focal point for outreach services and training activities for MCH
staff, especially the training of female primary health care workers. In
addition, RB has recently opened a school in the refugee camps in Aden for
Somalians. RB estimates that there will be 2,500 children of school age in
the camp by the end of the year. A project which has recently been initiated
is one for community-based rehabilitation to support children with
disabilities. Of the estimated one million people in Yemen with disabilities,
half are children. This project will train a core group of staff who will
work with the communities and families of those with disabilities to help the
disabled achieve their potential. Total RB support to YAR between 1980 and
1989 is estimated at US$20 million. Support for health development from 1992-
1994 will continue to focus on the delivery of MCH services and the betterment
of the lives of children.
19.      RB has recently conducted a study in five governorates on "The
Quality of MCH Services in Yemen - Seen Through Women's Eyes" which documents
the impact of social and cultural factors on a woman's decision to seek MCH
services, both traditional and modern.
United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
20.      USAID's priorities are to improve the capabilities of PHC workers,
especially female primary health care workers and midwives; provide equipment
to primary health care facilities (90 facilities have been provided equipment
thus far); collect data on family planning and supply clinics with
contraceptives; and develop social marketing programs for family planning.
21.      USAID's more recent projects have included women in development
activities, a project to increase access to basic education, and a child
survival project. In addition, USAID has begun to implement a family health
project. The women in development (WID) project, which began in 1991, is
designed to increase women's participation in development activities and
enhance the benefits they receive from such participation. The child survival
project, "Accelerated Cooperation for Child Survival (ACCS)" (1986-1994) has
four components: (i) expanding and upgrading primary health care; (ii)
immunization services; (iii) health education; and (iv) special programs,
including health care financing.
22.      The "Options for Family Care" project (1991-1999) at estimated cost
of US$18.0 million is supporting activities in five areas: (i) the collection
and analysis of demographic data; (ii) communication activities for greater
awareness of family planning through workshops, mass media, and printed
material; (iii) training (both pre-service and in-service) of health service
providers on FP-related topics; (iv) commercial marketing of contraceptives
and supplies; and (iv) expansion of opportunities for women.



- 48 -                              Annex 3
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF)
23.      The Yemeni Family Care Association (YFCA), founded in the YAR in
1976, became a member of the International Planned Parenthood Federation
(IPPF) in 1986 and currently 90 percent of its expenses are funded by IPPF.
The YFCA is the leading private volunteer organization in the area of family
care in Yemen, serving as the major supplier of contraceptives until 1986 when
the MOPH began to provide family planning services (contraceptives were
provided to the MOPH by UNFPA). Through its associated clinics (both
government and private), the YFCA distributes contraceptives, provides
information on family care, and trains medical personnel. As of 1992, YFCA
was providing contraceptives to over 75 service points throughout Yemen.



- 49 -                              Annex 4
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF PROJECT DISTRICTS
Selection MethodoloQv
To select the seven health districts to be included in the project, a
working group of senior MOPH officials, in consultation with IDA, first
examined the list of all 245 health districts against two "exclusion
criteria": population below 60,000, and lack of minimum infrastructure. As a
result, the total list of districts was reduced to 84 initially eligible
districts. To this list seven criteria were applied: population size,
availability of health infrastructure, availability of and commitment to
provide human resources, reasonable internal access, suitability of district
as demonstration, availability of other social services, and potential for
development activities. Each criterion was given a weight; each weight factor
was subdivided into five grades, each grade reflecting the degree to which the
criterion was met. This information was computer-processed, resulting in a
new list of 25 districts, ranked in the order of eligibility. While the top
seven districts head the list, further preferences of the Government were
taken into consideration: not to include more than one district from each
governorate; and to exclude districts where substantial support is provided by
an external donor.
Selection Criteria
The districts were assessed and selected on the basis of the following:
1.    Population size: not less than 60,000
2.    Availability of health infrastructure, with a potential to cover
not less than 50 percent of the district population according to
catchment criteria (a reasonable geographic distribution of health
centers and is an important consideration):
(a)   a district (or rural) hospital or a health center that can
be upgraded to a district (or rural) hospital;
(b)   health centers; and
(c)   primary health care units.
3.    Availability of and Government commitment to provide the necessary
human resources according to nationally approved staffing
patterns; Government undertaking to train local health workers.
4.    Reasonable internal access by road between various health
facilities within the district.
5.    Suitability of the selected district to be used as a demonstration
of implementing a district health system: good road and telephone
communication with the governorate capital or urban centers in the
area (access), availability of a functioning district hospital,
and community preparedness.
6.    Availability of other social services in the district.



- 50                                Annex 4
7.    Potential for or ongoing development activities; Government
commitment to establish district management teams and availability
of operational budget for the district health institutions and
activities are indicative of success.
Other Proiect Development Criteria
The following attachments list other, related criteria developed during
project preparation: (i) criteria for the construction, upgrading, and
renovation of health facilities, (ii) characteristics of health facilities,
and (iii) schedule of accommodation and space areas for PHC facilities.
Attachment 1
CRITERIA FOR CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADING, AND RENOVATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
Criteria for Establishment of Health Center
1.    Location: to be in a major village (uzlah) or district center (nahia
markaz);
2.    Catchment area: not less than 25,000 population in rural area;
3.    Access: not more than 50 km. by road to district or governorate
hospital;
4.    Utilities: electricity and water available;
5.    MOPH involvement: staff and budgetary resources available;
6.    School: primary school in the same or nearby village; and
7.    Community involvement:  (a) nomination of about 3 local females to be
trained as staff of the Health Center; (b) nomination of 2-3 local
females to be trained as Traditional Birth Attendants; (c) availability
of accommodations for staff; and (d) undertaking to open a female
literacy course if one is not already available.
Criteria for UpQradinQ PHC Unit into Health Center
1.    Village in which PHCU is located has been upgraded into a district
center (nahia markaz);
2.    Population in catchment area has increased significantly;
3.    Road access to district or governorate hospital has improved;
4.    Housing facilities and utilities (electricity and water) have become
available;
5.    Serious health problems occur; and



- 51 -                              Annex 4
6.    Significant agricultural, commercial, or industrial development in the
area is underway.
Criteria for Construction of a Primary Health Care Unit
1.    Catchment area: the catchment area meets the standardized population
number (5,000);
2.    Access: the nearby villages served by the PHCU are reasonably accessible
(1-hour walk). Further, the PHCU is at a reasonable distance (1-hour
walk) to the supervising Health Center to which walking patients can be
referred if necessary. The Health Center itself must be operational and
discharge all of the functions expected of a Health Center, including
supervision of the PHCU;
3.    Utilities: the PHCU site has electricity and water;
4.    Staff: one community health worker (health guide) or medical assistant
and one practical nurse (murshidah) or traditional birth attendant are
already posted in the present facility;
5.    Drug supply: essential drugs and contraceptives available at the PHCU;
6.    Utilization: the PHCU exhibits high patient usage (at least 300-500
patients per month); and
7.    Community involvement: (a) nomination of 1 female to be trained as
Community Health Worker or Traditional Birth Attendant; and (b) commit
to provide services for the upkeep of the Health Unit.
Attachment 2
CHARACTERISTICS OF HEALTH FACILITIES
Characteristics of a Primary Health Care Unit
1.    Catchment area: not less than 5,000 population
2.    Functions
(a)   Family health activities
(i)   Mother care
a.    antenatal care
b.    attending normal deliveries
c.    postnatal care
(ii)  Child care
a.    EPI
b.    CDD
c.    Nutrition education
(iii) Family planning
a.    counselling
b.    distribution of contraceptives
(b)   Treatment of simple ailments and injuries
(c)   Provide advice and promote community action for environmental
sanitation and safe water



-52 -                               Annex 4
(d)   Records and statistics
(e)   Referral to higher level facilities and follow-up care to patients
returning after receiving care at higher level facilities
3.    Staff                    CateQory                                   Number
(a)   Male Community Health Worker or Medical Assistant                1
(b)   Female Community Health Worker or Community Midwife              1
Characteristics of a Health Center
1.    Catchment area: 20,000-25,000 population
2.    Functions
(a)   Family planning
(i)   counselling
(ii) distribution of contraceptives
(b)   Prenatal, delivery, postnatal care (MCH)
(c)   Nutrition education, growth monitoring
(d)   Rehydration (CDD, ARI)
(e)   Immunization
(f)   Medical care, including care for injuries, for the mentally ill,
and the handicapped
(g)   Pharmacy (essential drugs) and storage
(h)   Laboratory
(i)   Environmental sanitation and safe water
(j)   Health education
(k)   School health services
(1)   Control of endemic diseases
(m)   Epidemiological surveillance
(n)   Records and statistics
(o)   Training (selected PHC centers)
(p)   Outreach (selected PHC centers)
(q)   Supervision of PHCUs
3.    Staff                    Categorv                                   Number
(a)   Male Community Health Worker or Medical Assistant                2
(b)   Female Community Health Worker or Community Midwife            3-5
(c)   General Practitioner                                             1
(d)   Practical Nurse                                                  2
(e)   Laboratory Technician                                            1
(f)   Pharmacy Assistant                                               1
(g)   Statistics Clerk                                                 1
(h)   Qualified Nurse                                                  1
(i)   Nurse-Midwife                                                    1
(j)   Health Inspector                                                 1



- 53 -                              Annex 4
Characteristics of a Rural Hospital/District Hosoital'
1.    Catchment area
30,000-60,000 population for the rural hospital
60,000-150,000 population for the district hospital
2.    Number of rooms
at least 25 for the rural hospital
50 rooms for the district hospital
3.    Number of beds
30-60 for the rural hospital
60-150 for the district hospital
4.    Functions
(a)   All functions performed by Health Center (primarily preventive and
promotive health services)
(b)   Treatment of emergencies and accidents
(c)   Medical, general surgery, obstetric, and pediatric services on
both an in-patient and out-patient basis
(d)   Referral services, including receiving those cases referred from
the Health Centers and Primary Health Care Units and referring
patients in need of specialized care to higher level facilities
and specialized institutions
(e)   Supervision of satellite Health Centers
5.    Staff                    Categorv                                   Number
(a)   Male Primary Health Care Worker or Medical Assistant           2_42
(b)   Female Primary Health Care Worker or Community Midwife         3-5
(c)   General Practitioner                                           2-4
(d)   Practical Nurse                                                8-15
(e)   X-ray Technician                                               2-3
(f)   Laboratory Technician                                          2-4
(g)   Pharmacy Assistant                                             1-3
(h)   Dental Assistant                                               1-2
(i)   Statistics Assistant                                           1-2
(j)   Professional Nurse                                             1-2
(k)   Nurse-Midwife                                                  2-4
(1)   Health Inspector                                               1-2
(m)   Specialist Medical Officer                                     2-3
(n)   Dentist                                                          1
(o)   Anaesthesia Technician                                         1-3
(p)   Operation Theater Technician                                   1-3
(q)   Public Health Specialist                                         1
(r)   Pharmacist                                                       1
1/ The characteristics of the Rural Hospital and District Hospital have not
yet been finalized, and therefore the description may be revised.
2/ The lower figure in the range refers to the Rural Hospital and the higher
figure applies to the District Hospital.



- 54 -                              Annex 4
Attachment 3
SCHEDULE OF ACCOMMODATION AND SPACE AREAS FOR PRIMARY HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
(sq.m.)
A.    Primary Health Care Units
1.    The proposed accommodation and space allocations are as follows:
(a)   1 room for a female health worker                       16
(b)   1 room for a male health worker                         16
(c)   2 toilets with anteroom and one shower                  10
(d)   1 storage room for cleaning supplies and other           8
provisions
(e)   1 waiting area                                          16
Subtotal                                                66
Plus 20 percent for walkway
(circulation not needed)                                14
Total                                                   80
Note: The waiting area could be divided into two separate
spaces (one for females and children and one for males) by a
removable screen. Removing the screen will allow adequate
space for health education.
2.    The PHCUs are to be designed in a simple architectural form with a
minimum of ornamental windows and other costly features. There
will be cast-in-situ jointless floors painted over with epoxy
paint for hygienic purposes. The walls will be cement blocks
plastered and painted on the inside to a height of 1.80 meters
with washable oil paint, the rest with washable emulsion.
B.    Primary Health Care Centers
1.    The accommodation and space allocations are as follows:
(a)   2 rooms, for a medical doctors' office and
examination room                                        24
(b)   1 registration and statistics room                      16
(c)   1 treatment room for the female nurse                   16
(d)   1 treatment room for the male nurse                     16
(e)   1 immunization and rehydration room (low partition)   16
(f)   1 child care room (CDD, nutrition demonstration),
growth monitoring, mother education                     16
(g)   1 ante- postnatal care, family planning (midwife)       16
(h)   1 labor and delivery room                               16
(i)   1 maternity ward with 4 beds and
4 cots for newborns                                     32
(j)   1 emergency ward for males with 2 beds                  18
(k)   1 waiting area                                          24
(The waiting room will be divided into two separate
spaces--one for females and children and one for
males--by a removable screen. Removing the screen
will allow adequate space for health education.)
(1)   1 laboratory                                            12



- 55 -                              Annex 4
(m)   1 pharmacy with storeroom                               16
(n)   1 toilet block with an anteroom, 4 toilets and
showers                                                 12
(o)   1 kitchenette and food pantry                           12
(p)   1 environmental sanitation room                         12
Subtotal                                               274
Plus 30 percent for walls and partial circulation       82
Total                                                  356
2.    The PHCCs are to be economically designed and of a higher
architectural grade than the PHCUs. The building materials will
be of durable quality. Stone walls would be permitted if stone is
available locally.
3.    The design for the PHCC would allow for possible expansion, as
when additional space might be needed in the future for a dental
room, an x-ray room with darkroom, and such.



Annex 5
PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
I  CENITRAL LEVEL                                             OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
OF PU6LIC HEALTH
PROJECT COORDINATING COMITTEE
Vice Minister, Chairman
0O1 Planning & Health Development
ON Primary Health Care
D6 Human Resource Development          SECRETARIAT    - Liaison
DG PHO                                                 - Contracts
P140 Technical Coordinator             PHD             - Accounts
Representative. MOPD                                   - Reports
Public             Medical              Drugs       |       Health             Manpower            Planning            Purchasing          Maintenance      |      A0
Health             Services             Medical             Education *        Development         S Statistics        & Storage           S Operation
Supplies           Communication                           & Follow-Up
--CH/ -P-Drugs---------   --Health                                             --Training------   --HIS-----------   --Procurement---   --Maintenance---
Health Centers     District                                 Education----
Health Units       Hospitals                                                              Researc
Uinit
--Studies &
Monitoring----
6OVERNIATE LEVEL                                              Directorate-6eneral
of PubIic health
I                       pl~~~~~~DSTRICT LEVEL                                                   Oistrict
Mlanagement
Tem



Annex 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CHARTS
YDEa: FAMILY IWALTHI OIUI
aCOImqr: SrlENGTWG DELNVEIY OF MCWFSPVIV  WTflW FN
-    _    _   _   _       _   18X       *  1  *      14 1  1  1  1tT11  Y1   TR              To *i             I 4                              4                     V W
w ~     ~~~~~~~~~ 4 _                I  I           at 11   1              1  1   1      4 1      2 1       1 7       I   2
_                    _ _ _ ~~~_ =-       == == 7iIII7ITITITi_I===TI===
0_i*_7- S.=4 d 5         =                                                                                                          =
- TA   ---I  , I Tr _
_                            I 2(.
.-                 == Ur2 _. Id.E   I I I II                                                                         I
1.4       1 _                                                                                                                      _ S
Td-_s_         Ir                       I                   I   I   I   I   I   I                17 1 17 1 1 1                      _
Ebbi.bg.d.                                                                U..                  . I..
flIf _AnAU1U M      NTUA r
AW.^ D
kld
um-f 1. 4.w S
IJ



Annex 6
YEWEN: FAMILY HEALTH ftOJBCr
COMPONENT: STRENGTHENING DEINVFRY OF MCtItf SERVSW  ?vIcKF (CONTINUED)
Y- iRI                                                      |         Y12                    Yn4               T|    I    YIN
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                    3 1 1 11                                   1                                                 'I 1  I  _  2   1  T  I  5   4   I  2
BLOOD 3ANXIN0 PAOLITfl
TA. L~ d.(    h.d
UmOlAEIGRSXAWUTAnNON OP MU.     _
3.4...._
UAIAllOII OP PINAL DQ(EIMT &                                                                                                                          |._    
JfPURNr3IU LIS & XPRCWA1OUM
II I 2 2
EU S. 4..d 5 
3WMlQCWiG V,W AWAItD
UJI  DQUWTf OF1 NIh. I.       =                                                                                                                              =
D6tf I a2
11"ft1 4" 1
VIKr.fWYASTfAI.IAIIO
_un _gmo of *w  _~ _ m11                                                                                                      -                                                      -
3    I_            _,. 3. . . N _ ___ -
I __-
FlUlO M ENOAM



Annex 6
YEMB: FAMILY HEALTH PnOJBcr
COMPONEMr: STAFF TRAINING
-       jI  2 1 4L~~~~~~~y-IJZLIIIWIIHILLTI T1
. 
=M     . _ Uf   * * *AT1I A
N.Is I_ _                                                                             dIII _                                                             _
1UADUW AND DAUCVN
L   ==_. s.  ; .
S_~ d Tn_      :      
U-.
S_       ,''',SYS,C'> ..', ,,,,,V, ' ,.,,............................................................................................. 9,:-  
T- s _s. 6. ITM                                                              *   +'''                        '    ' t
1tWMI v                                              l     l    l  
= ..I-  -Im1.    1       
I                      I     I    I    I                    I     I    I    I    M EI                            I    



_ __  __ __  __ -  _ _         - _
_ ~ ~~~ 09 -    



- 61 -
3IT                  T+         
e 3       0E  TThhh m.hhhhhhm. 
1111111111111111 1E.
.1111II   iillEll   
R _ ~     I I TITETETE  El  T11   
# E    E  El i Ihhh   II|||||||
i !A   AR Elil EEEEEEEEE;;;
*X  I I *--. I IEE   II
|~~~I .IlIEU I
_ ~ ~E       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _T_ _ _ I
El _______________
.ml I    IIIIII         I
11" F  rnTIi' I lT 1 1 11111



Annex 6
YE:M. FAMLY HEALTH PROlWr
COMu: PHAIACU
Y_1                                                      TM |   U | YJ      l             Yu   I  Yu      
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M.41 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAM-
UIIDCAL ASTfANM3
7     7                 =~    =  __= =_=_==                                     =_     l                            l    l   l    l      
-m
aww.
3   C~ A-M
MQ?. MMI. MAIEAIZ
_  = = = = = =                        ~           ~             -   =  = ==  = *                 ---  - . ---  lll l   
8"*.W,_    =_  --_=  W             
s __**_lllllll...........................lllom
a"_____|____     _H-   
an _        -  



- 63 -                               Annex 7
FUNCTIONS OF THE DISTRICT MANAGEMENT TEAM
Management and Administration
1.    Ensure adequate staffing of health facilities according to standards;
2.    Secure adequate provision of supplies and equipment, including medicines
for all district health facilities: district hospital, health center,
health unit;
3.    Manage the budgetary allocation made available for the activities of the
DMT;
4.    Organize regular, semi-annual meetings of responsible staff at various
levels within the district, to prepare the annual plan of action; and
assess progress against the agreed plan;
5.    Undertake monthly visits to the health centers and, if required, to the
health units, accompanied by responsible staff from the health centers;
6.    Collect and analyze monthly reports from health centers and submit
quarterly reports to the governorate health office, copied to central
MOPH in Sanaa;
7.    Assess, at regular intervals, the maintenance and repair of health
facilities buildings, equipment, and vehicles; report to higher level on
their condition, requesting assistance as required; and
8.    Ensure the smooth functioning of the referral system, as designed.
Technical
1.    Ensure that each health facility is performing according to officially
assigned duties specific to each facility;
2.    Ensure that all staff are performing according to the tasks detailed in
their respective job descriptions; identify staff training requirements;
3.    Undertake training tasks as follows:
(a)   Organize pre-service training for female primary health care
workers;
(b)   Organize and conduct in-service training for district staff;
(c)   Train traditional birth attendants (TBAs); and
(d)   Identify additional training needs for various health staff
categories.
4.    Provide technical guidance to staff during regular visits;
5.    Conduct epidemiological surveillance functions, take containment
measures, and report disease outbreaks immediately to higher levels;



-64 -                               Annex 7
6.    Ensure that all facilities fill accurately statistical forms and submit
accurate regular reports as required by the national HIS;
7.    Verify and ensure the availability at the district health facilities of
specific medicines (in addition to those on the essential drugs list)
for common endemic diseases;
8.    Participate in research studies and piloting activities; and
9.    Plan and implement effective district health education activities to
raise the awareness of the population about health problems.
Coordinative
1.    Initiate intersectoral collaboration activities with other relevant
sectors and propose suitable mechanisms for that purpose under the
leadership of the district administrator;
2.    Encourage and facilitate the involvement of representatives of local
communities in the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of district
health services; and
3.    In collaboration with local communities, promote the development of
community participation activities in health.



- 65 -                                    Annex 8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY AND SCHEDULE
Consultant Services (Staff-Months)
AREA OF EXPERTISE                 NO.   YR1   YR2   YR3   YR4   YR5   TOTAL
MCH/FP FOR PHC DISTRICTS
Public Health Management                 2      2      1      1    0.5    0.5      5
Referral Systems Development             1      2      1      1      1             5
Obstetrics                               2      2      1      1      1      1      6
Operating Theater Technology             1      1      1      1      I      1      5
Hematology                               1      1    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5       3
STAFF TRAINING
Curriculum Development                   3      9                                  9
Training Supervision                     1             4                           4
Continuing Education                     1             1                            1
HEALTH EDUCATION
Research & Evaluation                    2      9                                  9
Program Development                      2             4                           4
Interpresonal Communication              2                    4                    4
HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM                  =_=__
Systems Development                      1      2                                  2
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROGRAM*
Distribution Management                  1      5                                  5
Drug Quantification                      1             1                            1
Drug Prepacking                          1  1                                       1
Drug Warehousing                         1      1      1      1                    3
Local Manufacturing                      1      1                                   1
PROCUREMENT & MAINTENANCE
Procurement Procedures*                  1      3      1      1                    5
Contract Administration                  1      2      1                            3
Maintenance Program                      1      2      1      1                     4
TOTAL                              -     43     18    12       4      3      80
hcccal assistance with WHO as execung agency



- 66 -                                       Annex 8
TraininQ Fellowships (Staff-Months)
AREA OF TRAINING                   NO.   YR1   YR2   YR3   YR4   YR5   TOTAL
MCH/FP FOR PHC DISTRICTS
Public Health Management                   7       6      30     48     48      36      168
Midwifery                                   7             6      18      21     18       63
STAFF TRAINING
Preservice Training                        4              12     12      12     12       48
Continuing Education*                       5             4       6                      10
HEALTH EDUCATION
Health Education                           8       3      9       3      9               24
Media Production*                          2              4              4                8
EHIS & RESEARCH                                          I 
HIS Computerization                         2      6                                      6
Project Monitoring                         2              3              3                6
ESSENTIAL DRUGS PROGRAM
Drug Program Management*                   4       4      3       3      3               13
Drug Distribution Training                 15      9      9       9      9       9       45
PROCUREMENT & MAINTENANCE
Procurement Procedures*                    2       5                                      5
Maintenance Program Development*           4       3       1                              4
TOTAL                                 -     36      81     99    109      75      400
*Study visits



- 67 -                                Annex 9
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IDA Fiscal Year and        Disbursement        Cumulative          Z of
Semester Ending         During Semester   Disbursement          Credit
---------USS million----------
1994
June 30, 1994                    0.2               0.2                0
1995
December 31, 1994                0.7               0.9                3
June 30, 1995                    0.7               1.6                6
1996
December 31, 1995                4.7               6.3              24
June 30, 1996                    4.7              11.0              40
1997
December 31, 1996                3.4              14.4              54
June 30, 1997                    3.4              17.8               66
1998
December 31, 1997                2.4              20.2               76
June 30, 1998                    2.4              22.6               84
1999
December 31, 1998                1.1              23.7               90
June 30, 1999                    1.1              24.8               92
200Q
December 31, 1999                0.9              25.7               96
June 30, 2000                    0.9              26.6             100



- 68 -                             Annex 10
PROJECT SUPERVISION SUMMARY
Staff-Week Allocation:
IDA                                              No. of
Fiscal Year        Staff/Consultant Specialtv    Staff-Weeks
1994          Public Health Specialist            4*
Implementation Specialist           4
Health Education Specialist         2
Staff Training Specialist           2
Pharmaceuticals Specialist          2  14
1995          Public Health Specialist            3*
Implementation Specialist           3
Staff Training Specialist           2   8
1996          Public Health Specialist             3*
Implementation Specialist           3
Pharmaceuticals Specialist          2
Evaluation Specialist               2  10
1997          Public Health Specialist            3*
Implementation Specialist           2
Health Education Specialist         2   7
1998          Public Health Specialist            3*
Implementation Specialist          4
Evaluation Specialist               2   9
Total Staff-Weeks                      48
*Task Manager
SuDervision Schedule:
Staff/Consultant      FY 1994      FY 1995     FY 1996      FY 1997      FY 1998
SDecialtv         I   II      III  IV       V  VI      VII  VIII    IX   X   Total
Public Health         3   1         3    -      1   2       -    3        1   2    16
Implementation        2   2         -    3      1   2       2    -        2   2    16
Health Education      2   -         -    -       -   -      2    -        -   -      4
Staff Training        2   -         2    -      -   -       -    -        -   -     4
Pharmaceuticals       2   -         -    -      -   2       -    -        -   -     4
Evaluation            -   -         -    -       -   2     _    _         -   2     4
Total                11   3         5    3      2   8       4    3        3   6    48



- 69 -                                  Annex 11
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
Date of
Project Activity                    Completion           Output Indicator and Remarks
DISTRICT MCH/FP SERVICES
Districts 1 and 2
- Detailed engineering survey    )  Project
- Appointment of DMTs       )       Effectiveness
- Baseline data established         JUN'94
- Final plans & bidding documents   JUN'94
- Invitation to bid                JUL'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JAN'95
- Completion of construction        DEC'95
- Staffing completed                DEC'95
- Facilities equipped & operational  JAN'96
Districts 3, 4, and 5
- Appointment of DMTs               JUN'94
- Detailed engineering survey       JAN'95
- Baseline data established        JAN'95
- Final plans & bidding documents   JUN'95
- Invitation to bid                JUN'95
- Bid evaluation & contract award  JAN'96
- Completion of construction        DEC'96
- Staffing completed                DEC'96
- Facilities equipped & operational  JAN'97
Districts 6 and 7
- Appointment of DMTs               JAN'95
- Baseline data established        JAN'95
- Detailed engineering survey       JUN'95
- Final plans & bidding documents   JAN'96
- Invitation to bid                 FEB'96
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUN'96
- Completion of construction        DEC'97
- Staffing completed                DEC'97
- Facilities equipped & operational  JAN'98



- 70-                                    Annex 11
(Monitoring Indicators, continued)
Date of
Project Activity                     Completion            Output Indicator and Remarks
CIVIL WORKS
District Facilities                  See above.
Health Information System Facilities
- Final plans & bidding documents   MAR'94
- Invitation to bid                 APR'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUL'94
- Completion of construction        JAN'95
Training Facilities
- Final plans & bidding documents   JUL'94
- Invitation to bid                  AUG'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   NOV'94
- Completion of construction        DEC'95
Drug Distribution Facilities
- Final plans & bidding documents   JAN'95
- Invitation to bid                 FEB'95
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUL'95
- Completion of construction        JUN'96
EQUIPMENT & FURNrTURE
District Equipment & Furniture       See above.
HIS Equipment & Furniture
- Lists & specifications
- Bidding documents                 FEB'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUN'94
- Delivery & installation           JAN'95
Health Education Equipment & Furniture
- Lists & specifications
- Bidding documents                 MAR'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUN'94
- Delivery & installation           JAN'95
Training Equipment & Furniture
- Lists & specifications            JUN'94
- Bidding documents                 JUL'94
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JAN'95
- Delivery & installation           JUN'95
Drug Distribution Equipment & Furniture
- Lists & specifications            JAN'95
- Bidding documents                 JAN'95
- Bid evaluation & contract award   JUN'95
- Delivery & installation           JAN'96



- 71 -                                   Annex 11
(Monitoring Indicators, continued)
Date of
Project Activity                    Completion             Output Indicator and Remarks
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AB Project Components
- Solicitation                      SEP'94         Solicitation document for provision of technical
assistance in specific contract packages; TORs
agreed with IDA
District MCHIFP Services
- Obstetrics (C)*                   JUN'94         Training needs defined; physicians trained in
emergency obstetrics; report on status of provision
of emergency obstetrics in project district hospitals
- Blood Banking (C)                 DEC'94         Measures for safe collection agreed with IDA prior
to equipment procurement, training of physicians,
lab technicians; plan for upgrading facilities and
promotion of blood collection developed.
- Public Health Management (C)      MAR'94         Plan for district management defined and adopted
by MOPH by JUL '94; DMTs trained.
- Referrl System Management (C)     JUN'94         Medical referral system defined and adopted by
MOPH by DEC '94; staff trained.
- Operating Theater Management (C)    JUN'94       Staff trained; assessment of status of operating
theaters in project districts completed.
- Public Health (F)*                DEC'98         Fellowships completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Midwifery (F)                      DEC'98        Fellowships completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Pilot Activities                                 See HIS & Project Monitoring, below.
Training of Health Care Staff
- Curriculum Development (C)        DEC'94         Revised curriculum adopted by JUN'95
- Training Supervision (C)           DEC'94        TORs for TSTs adopted by JUN'95
- Continuing Education (C)          DEC'94         Curriculum for continuing education courses
adopted by JUN'95
- Preservice Training (F)           JAN'97         Fellowships completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Continuing Education (SV)*        JAN'97         Study visits completed on IDA-approved TORs
Health Education
- Program Development (C)           DEC'94         Curriculum adopted by JUN'95
- Research and Evaluation (C)       JUN'95         Research and evaluation plan adopted by JAN'96
- Interpersonal Communication (C)   DEC'94         Program for development of interpersonal
communication activities adopted by JUN'95
- Health Education (F)              JAN'98         Fellowships completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Media Production (SV)             JAN'98         Visits completed on IDA-approved TORs
HIS & Project Monitoring
- Systems Development (C)           JAN'95         Software package for HIS adopted by MAR'95
- HIS Computerization (F)           JAN'95         Fellowship completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Pilot Activities                   MAR'95        TA provider contracted
JUN'95        Pilots launched
- Project Studies                   JUN'95         Studies launched
MAR'96        Recommendations on follow-on activities sent to
IDA
- Midterm Review                    MAR'96         Midterm report sent to IDA
JUN'96        Midterm review with IDA
- Project Monitoring (F)            JAN'98         Fellowship completed on IDA-approved TORs
* (C) Consultut, (F) FeLowship, (SV) Stdy Visit



-72 -                                    Annex 11
(Monitoring Indicators, continued)
Date of
Project Activity                    Completion            Output Indicator and Remarks
Essential Drugs Program
- Agreement with WHO                DEC'94         Document of agreement with WHO as executing
agency; TORs agreed with IDA
- Drug Quantification (C)*          JUN'95         Drug tender prepared yearly, by midyear
- Distribution Management (C)       JAN'95         Distribution plan adopted by JUN'95
- Medical Stores Management (C)     JAN'95         Manuals for medical stores management adopted by
JUN'95
- Pharmaceutical Production (C)     JAN'95         Action plan for local drug production adopted by
JUN'95
- Drug Prepclking (C)               JAN'95
- Drug Program Management (SV)*     JAN'98         Study visits completed under IDA-approved TORs
- Drug Distribution Training (F)*   DEC'98         Fellowships completed on IDA-approved TORs
Procurenent & Maintenance
- Procurement Management (C)        JAN'95         Procurement procedures systematized
- Contract Administration (C)       JAN'95         Manuals developed
- Maintenance Management (C)        JAN'96         Organization plan developed
- Procurement (SV)                  JAN'95         Study visits completed on IDA-approved TORs
- Maintenance (SV)                  JAN'95         Study visits completed on IDA-approved TORs
e (C) Conaulta, (F) FeDowhip, (SV) Study Vuit



IBRD 24849
-  - -                0     ~~~~~~~~~PROJECT DISTPJCTS
45  48'                               0      SELCTED TOWNS AD VIUAGES
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                               --                                             COvRNO ATEcA!"AS
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                                                    E' .T                                                      *   NATIONALCAPIAL
SAUDI AABIA                                 /.                                                                          _       MFRY ROADS
; ,   _                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S A U D I A   A B I A                                                                                                TP,   g Tou  r'_ ECKSAY OD
C   |SAAAH                                                          o                                                                                       GO)ERNORETE BOUNDARES
SoIoS/lon) r    4todoh              J                              8        X                           >1        r f      f l ff.AHRf H                  _     INITERNATONAL DOUNDARIES
- I      00     A."                             4                                                                                                                       54*
M       oy.ydj   aHotm                                          |              *      ZoOmosh   V            ,                                         :  ~  ~ d GhoydohGo
AJ                                                                                                                                         b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thi, nop be, been p.p-'d
Roydoh                                      Itt                                       < H_/ G                              -oo         (zh      S;Nd
intee-I - of TheW.oAd Bnk
KHHodelda4K_  MorMuntHA,!>1Az  C-r;6\/ In                                                                                                                     b-dn. nh-n n
AJ Hk  Al      b.,~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                             HMg0~ni                            i                                                                  
RED~~~~~~~~~~H SEAb   ALAI  r ZAI Yn        8zoq                         A  dh             <<                    R
q  C    ff      m bii  97A   99ido               < z,,df   NH            A,  H u_od.h
GULF OF ADEN
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                    Ah-
EJLOMETETS
DJIBOUTI%                                                                                                                                                                     A  o       20018KtdeP:h
42           )                          45?                                                    48'                                                    51'                                                    54-      12-.
JUNE 1993



