Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2525 YEM
                   Development Credit Agreement
                      (Family Health Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 6, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2525 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
Page  2
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
      (b)  "PMO" means the Project Management Office established and
operating within the MOPH pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial
Directive No. 2074 dated November 11, 1989;
      (c)  "WHO" means the World Health Organization;
      (d)  "National Health Policy" means the statement of health
policies, strategies, and medium term program issued from time to
time by the MOPH;
      (e)  "Health Information System" means the unified Health
Information System to be established by the Borrower for the
collection and compilation of health statistical data pursuant to
the plan defined for such purposes by a MOPH task force;
      (f)  "primary health care" means essential health care based
on practical, scientifically sound and socially acceptable methods
and technology made universally accessible to individuals and
families in the community, as defined in the Declaration of Alma-Ata
of 1978;
      (g)  "salaries" means salaries of additional staff required
for the facilities to be upgraded under Part A of the Project and
for the institutional strengthening of the MOPH Directorate-General
for Health Education under Part B (2) (a) of the Project;
      (h)  "operation and maintenance" means operation and
maintenance of medical facilities to be constructed, rehabilitated
and upgraded under the Project through the provision of spare parts,
fuel, services, materials, and equipment;
      (i)  "Essential Drugs List" means the list of pharmaceutical
products to be developed by the Borrower pursuant to Section II (3)
of Schedule 4 hereto;
      (j)  "essential drugs" means the essential drugs included in
the Essential Drugs List;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)  "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
Page  3
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing on September 1, 2003, and ending on March 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                          ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
MOPH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, public health, and
engineering practices, and shall provide through budgetary
allocations, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)  The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to promptly
make available out of its own resources to the MOPH the funds
necessary to meet a part of the cost of essential drugs under the
Project.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
Page  5
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   CENPLAN                   2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  6
            Cable address:Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         By /s/ Moksin Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
      (a) Construction and      5,720,000       100% of foreign
          rehabilitation                        expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
      (b) Engineers' and          320,000       100%
          architects' fees
(2)   Equipment,                4,230,000       100% of foreign
      vehicles, furniture                       expenditures,
      and materials                             100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items procured
                                                locally
(3)   Pilot activities            640,000       100%
(4)   Consultants' services       920,000       100%
(5)   Studies                     140,000       100%
(6)   Fellowships               1,410,000       100%
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Local training              640,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(8)  Essential drugs:
     (a) For FY 1995             990,000        100%
     (b) For FY 1996             850,000        100%
     (c) For FY 1997             710,000        90%
     (d) For FY 1998             640,000        80%
     (e) For FY 1999             540,000        70%
(9)   Unallocated              1,050,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   18,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods, works, or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods, works, or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
implementing a national population policy targeted at reducing
fertility and maternal and infant mortality. To this end, the
Project aims to improve access to, and the quality of, family
planning and maternal and child health services within the primary
health care system, and generally enhance management effectiveness
in the health sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of Primary Health Care Services
      Carrying out in selected rural areas of a program to improve
the quality of primary health care services, in particular family
planning and maternal and child health services, so as to
demonstrate effective referral and supervision systems and explore,
on a pilot basis, alternative methods of delivering health services
to areas outside the health service network, consisting of:
1.    Strengthening of the quality of delivery of services in
selected district hospitals, through the rehabilitation of about
seven (7) existing health facilities to district hospitals, and
Page  8
provision of: (i) medical equipment and furniture; (ii) two (2)
ambulances per district; (iii) technical assistance in management of
obstetrical emergencies, blood banking, and operating rooms; (iv)
training of laboratory technicians in blood testing and blood
banking management and promotion and collection of blood donations;
and (v) fellowships, all as required for the activities included in
this Part A (1).
2.    Improvement of the infrastructure of primary health care
facilities, through the rehabilitation of about thirty (30) health
facilities to health centers and about seventy-six (76) health
units, construction of living headquarters, and provision of medical
equipment and furniture as required for the activities included in
this Part A (2).
3.    Development of a program for the suitable management of
primary health care services at the district level and the effective
operation of a referral system between primary health care services
facilities and district hospitals, through the: (i) establishment of
a district management team (DMT) in each district; and (ii)
provision of equipment, including vehicles, technical assistance,
and training, as required therefor.
4.    Implementation of two (2) pilot operations on delivery of
health services in remote communities and community participation in
health services' delivery, and, to this end, provision of technical
assistance, including consultants' services, equipment, and related
materials.
Part B:     Strengthening of Health Care Training and Health
            Education
1.    Carrying out, in selected districts, of a comprehensive
program targeted at developing and enhancing training programs for
nurses, midwives, and medical assistants, with a view to reinforcing
the capacity of training institutes and increasing the availability
of qualified manpower, including:
      (a)   Enhancement of preservice training provided in health
manpower institutes (HMIs), through: (i) construction of five (5)
additional classrooms at both the Taiz and Hodeida HMIs, and
provision of equipment and furniture as required in connection
therefor; (ii) provision of training equipment and materials to
existing HMIs; (iii) provision of technical assistance to review and
revise the national training curricula of primary health care; and
(iv) provision of relevant fellowships, especially for HMIs
instructors.
      (b)   Improvement of inservice training, through the provision
of: (i) technical assistance to develop curricula for continuing
education programs and training programs to be provided by training
and supervision teams (TSTs); (ii) vehicles for seven (7) TSTs;
(iii) training materials for continuing education courses; and (iv)
related study visits.
      (c)   Strengthening of induction training, through the
provision of training in administrative and operational procedures
and performance requirements of primary health care facilities, and
related study visits.
2.    Development of a plan to support and improve the delivery, and
effectiveness of, the MOPH program on media-borne messages in
maternal health and women's participation in the health sector and
health education messages through interpersonal components,
comprising:
      (a)   Carrying out of activities at the central level of the
Borrower's territory, including: (i) strengthening of the institu-
tional capabilities of the MOPH Directorate-General for Health
Education, through the provision of: (A) technical assistance in
research and evaluation techniques; (B) fellowships; and (C) one (1)
scriptwriter, one (1) technical director, and one (1) researcher;
Page  9
(ii) implementation of a program for delivery of health messages
through interpersonal means, through the provision of: (A) technical
assistance in interpersonal communication program development; (B)
related study visits; (C) materials for the development of manuals
for training; and (D) training of communication agents.
      (b)   Carrying out of activities at the governorate level of
the Borrower's territory, comprising: (i) strengthening of the
television production capacity of the Aden, Hodeida, and Hadramout
health education offices, through the provision of television
production and related equipment, including transport vans; and (ii)
reinforcement of the governorates' institutional capabilities,
through the provision of training in health education administration
and supervision.
Part C:     Improvement of Management and Logistics of the Health
            Sector
      Carrying out of a set of key interventions aimed at improving
the management of the health sector, including:
1.    Expansion of the Borrower's Health Information System to sub-
governorate areas of the Borrower's territory not included in the
pretesting activities carried out thereunder, and implementation of
the computerized system at the central and governorate level of the
Borrower's territory, encompassing provision of: (i) training
workshops on the use of standardized forms; (ii) training on
computer applications and statistical analysis; (iii) minor repairs
at governorate offices necessary for the installation of computers;
(iv) consultant technical assistance in, and fellowships for,
software development and statistical analysis; and (v) computer
hardware and software as required for the MOPH central and
governorate health offices.
2.Strengthening of the research capabilities of the MOPH through
the provision of: (i) equipment and materials for the creation of a
document center; (ii) fellowships for the staff of the Research
Unit; and (iii) technical assistance for: (A) defining a baseline
data and monitoring indicators; and (B) carrying out of studies on
utilization rates, increased women's participation as health
providers, and related themes.
3.    Strengthening of the planning and implementation capabilities
of the MOPH Directorate of Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies to
support the logistics development component of the Borrower's
National Pharmaceutical Program, entailing:
      (a)   Provision of: (i) technical assistance for the
development of a master plan for the distribution of drugs, medical
equipment and other medical supplies, a training program in drug
quantification, and a manual on drug and medical equipment
procedures; (ii) technical assistance to review local drug
production capacity, assess prepacking drugs, and examine the
feasibility of cost sharing arrangements for pharmaceuticals; (iii)
training fellowships; and (iv) training on the basis of the results
of the technical assistance carried out under this Part (3) (a).
      (b)   Provision of minor repairs at the central drug
warehouses in Sana'a and Aden, warehousing equipment, and about
thirteen (13) delivery trucks for said warehouses and medical stores
in governorates where Project districts are located, all to improve
materials handling.
      (c)   Provision of essential drugs, including family planning
drugs, and consumables in kits.
4.    Strengthening of the procurement capabilities of the
Directorate of Purchasing and Storage within the MOPH Directorate
General of Finance, through the provision of: (i) technical
assistance for organizing and computerizing procurement procedures,
accounting, contract administration, and record-keeping procedures;
(ii) study visits, including courses on international procurement
Page  10
and contracting; and (iii) computer hardware and software.
5.    Reinforcement of the facilities maintenance capabilities of
the MOPH Directorate General of Maintenance, comprising the
provision of: (i) technical assistance to assist in the design of
preventive maintenance and repair procedures, record keeping and
inventory control, and planning, budgeting and scheduling; (ii)
fellowships in maintenance management; and (iii) two (2) mobile
units, equipment maintenance and repair tool kits, computer hardware
and maintenance management software.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, including
equipment, furniture, and essential drugs, shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding
1.    Contracts for works under the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association. In the procurement of works in accordance with this
Part C (1), the Borrower shall: (i) advertise the invitation to bid
thirty (30) days in advance in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the Borrower's territory; and (ii) use a standard
bidding document agreed to with the Association.
Page  11
International Shopping
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Procurement of Blood Banking Equipment
      Procurement of blood banking equipment for the activities to
be undertaken under Part A (1) (iv) of the Project shall not be
initiated until and unless the Association shall have approved the
report referred to in Section III (5) (a) of Schedule 4 hereto.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each; and (ii)
the first ten (10) contracts for each goods and works, regardless of
the cost thereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
Page  12
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association's review or approval of budgets, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association's
review shall not apply to the terms of reference and short lists for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Section I.   Institutional Arrangements
1.    Project Coordination Committee
      (a)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that a Project Coordination Committee (PCC): (i) is established
within the MOPH not later than June 30, 1994; and (ii) is maintained
throughout the period of Project implementation, all under terms of
reference and staffing, financial and reporting arrangements
satisfactory to the Association. The PCC shall be responsible for
overall coordination of Project activities, shall be headed by the
Vice Minister of the MOPH, and shall include, from the MOPH, the
Deputy Minister of Planning and Health Development, the Deputy
Minister of Primary Health Care, the Director General of Human
Resource Development, the Director General of the PMO, and a
Technical Coordinator from the PMO to be appointed thereto not later
than June 30, 1994; and a representative from the Ministry of
Planning and Development.
      (b)   The PMO shall be assigned responsibility for the
Secretariat of the PCC, and shall ensure the timely and organized
implementation of Project activities. The Secretariat shall be
specifically responsible, inter alia, for: (i) coordination and
liaison between Project implementing agencies; (ii) organization
between the MOPH and the Association of annual Project reviews and,
during the third year of Project implementation, the mid-term
Project review; (iii) collection and consolidation of reports under
the Project, including financial audit reports, for submission to
the concerned institutions; (iv) preparation, with the assistance of
the Research Unit, of semiannual progress reports for submission to
the Association each Fiscal Year not later, respectively, than March
1 and November 1, and the mid-term Project review report, not later
than September 30, 1996; (v) administration of Project accounts,
including preparation and submission of withdrawal applications to
the Association and timely disbursement of the proceeds of the
Credit to the implementing agencies; (vi) physical and financial
monitoring of the Project, in accordance with indicators acceptable
to the Association; and (vii) jointly with the Directorate General
of Purchasing and Store, coordination of procurement, and monitoring
of contracts for civil works and goods.
2.MOPH Services
      Within the MOPH, the following departments shall have these
specific responsibilities under the Project: (i) Public Health and
Medical Services, under their respective Directors General, for
Project implementation at the district level; (ii) Manpower
Development, under its Director General, for implementation of Part
B (1) of the Project; (iii) Health Education, under its Director
General, for implementation of Part B (2) of the Project; (iv)
Planning, Statistics, and Follow-up, under its Director General, for
implementation of Part C (1) of the Project; (v) Research Unit, for
monitoring implementation of studies to be carried out under the
Project, and overseeing pilot operations under Part A (4) of the
Project; (vi) Drugs and Supply Services, under its Director General,
for implementation of Part C (3) of the Project; (vii) Maintenance,
Page  13
under its Director General, for implementation of Part C (5) of the
Project; and (viii) Purchasing and Supplies within the Directorate
General of Finance, for assisting the PCC in procurement, on the
basis of consultation with the concerned MOPH technical
directorates.
Section II.   Public Health Program
1.    The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1994, prepare, in
consultation with the principal parties concerned, an action plan,
for submission to the Association, outlining measures to be
undertaken for the establishment of a suitable procedure for the
issuance of certification of primary health care workers. There-
after, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure the
prompt implementation of the said plan as approved by the
Association.
2.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure: (i)
not later than June 30, 1994, the further development of a national
drug policy, acceptable to the Association, taking into consi-
deration the recommendations of the WHO; and (ii) the inclusion of
the said policy in the Borrower's National Health Policy to be
submitted for deliberation and approval of the MOPH's Ministerial
Council during the Fiscal Year 1994.
3.    (a)  The Borrower shall develop, or cause to be developed,
with the assistance of the WHO, an Essential Drugs List, acceptable
to the Association, on pharmaceutical products required to treat the
most common and widespread health problems affecting the population
in the Borrower's territory.
       (b)  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994,
take all measures necessary to adopt the Essential Drugs List, and
thereafter shall cause said List to be utilized by the MOPH for
purposes of supplying essential drugs to the Borrower's public
health facilities.
Section III.   Project Implementation
1.    The Borrower shall implement the Project in seven (7)
districts to be selected among the following: Al-Said, Al-shihr, Ba-
dan, Bait-Faqih, Harad, Khamfar, Khawlan, Lawdar, Maifwa, Maqbana,
Marib, Qabaitah, Seyoun, Shamaitin, and Zabeed. The MOPH shall be
responsible for selecting districts in accordance with selection
criteria agreed upon with the Association, which shall include,
inter alia, population size, availability of health infrastructure,
human resources, and related social services, internal
accessibility, suitability for demonstrational purposes, and
potential for, or existence of, development activities, and shall
submit for the Association's review and approval a proposal list of
proposed districts. Thereafter, the list of districts selected for
Project implementation shall be revised as shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, upon submission of a
request of the MOPH including the reasons for the proposed revision.
2.    (a)  The Borrower shall prepare and furnish for the
Association's review and comment, a technical-financial report, in
such detail and of such scope as the Association shall have
reasonably requested: (i) not later than March 1 of each Fiscal
Year, on expenditures incurred, and actions undertaken by the
Borrower in carrying out the Project during the preceding Fiscal
Year, including budgetary allocations necessary to meet a part of
the cost of essential drugs; and (ii) not later than November 1 of
each Fiscal Year, on projected expenditures to be incurred, and
actions to be undertaken, during the following Fiscal Year, in
carrying out the Project, including budgetary allocations necessary
to meet a part of the cost of essential drugs. In the light of the
findings of said reports, the Borrower shall promptly take all
actions required to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the
Project, taking into consideration the recommendations of the
Association.
Page  14
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall, during the mid-term Project review,
discuss and agree with the Association on a suitable action plan
establishing follow-on activities to those to be carried out under
Part A (4) of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1996, or three
(3) months before the mid-term Project review, whichever occurs
earlier, prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, a report, in such detail and of such scope as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, for the purposes of
carrying out the mid-term Project review.
4.    The Borrower shall issue, or cause the MOPH to issue, not
later than September 30, 1994, letters of invitation to consultants
required for purposes of carrying out the relevant Project
activities.
5.    (a)  The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the consultants engaged for assisting in the organization of
blood banks to be undertaken under Part A (1) (iii) of the Project
shall identify proposed alternative measures to ensure and further
the safety of blood collection and supply, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association. To that end, the consultants shall
initially prepare a report identifying and evaluating proposed
alternatives, and making specific recommendations thereon.
      (b)  The Borrower shall promptly submit to the Association,
for its review and approval, the report referred to in subparagraph
(a) above, including its comments thereon.
6.    The Borrower shall take all steps necessary, satisfactory to
the Association, to ensure: (i) that in the selection of trainees
and fellowship awardees under Parts A (1) and B (1) (a) (iv) of the
Project, priority shall be given to women, staff and key managers
from the districts covered under the Project; and (ii) upon
completion of said training and fellowships, the delivery by thetrainees and awardees 
of a minimum service period in the relevant
governorate adequate to enable them to effectively utilize the
training and fellowships received.
7.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)  For the purposes of Part A (3) and A (4) of the Project,
establish or cause to be established in each district, a district
management team (DMT) consisting of one (1) physician, one (1)
midwife, and one (1) medical assistant or health inspector. The DMT
shall be responsible, inter alia, for providing inservice training
and supervising primary health care facilities so as to ensure, at
all times, maintenance and availability of staff and equipment.
      (b)   For purposes of Part B (1) (b) and (c) of the Project,
establish or cause to be established at each relevant governorate
health office, a training and supervision team (TST) responsible for
carrying out supervisory and training activities.
8.    The Borrower shall take all steps possible to ensure that the
activities to be undertaken under Part C (3) of the Project are
coordinated with the assistance of the WHO.
9.    The Borrower shall take all steps necessary: (i) to ensure
that the study on cost sharing arrangements for pharmaceuticals
under Part C (3) (c) (ii) of the Project is completed before the
mid-term Project review; and (ii) on the basis of the
recommendations of such study, promptly prepare and adopt a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Association, to implement a policy to
recover the cost of essential drugs.
                           SCHEDULE 5
Page  15
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
Page  16
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
