Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE
Report No. P-3732-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT IN AMOUNTS
OF SDR 5.2 MILLION AND SDR 9.6 MILLION RESPECTIVELY
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
February 24, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without '



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pound (LS)       =         100 piastre
LSd 1.00                  =         US$0.77
US$ 1.00                            LS 1.30
Weights and Measures
Feddan (fd)                                      0,42 hectare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton)                             143 kilogram (kg)
Kilowatt (kw)                                    1.36 horsepower (hp)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOL     -   Department of Labor
ESR     -   Education Sector Review
HTSS    -   High Technical Secondary School
IREC    -   Integrated Rural Education Center
IDA-SFR -   IDA Special Fund Resources
MES     -   Modules of Employable Skills
MOE     -   Ministry of Education and Guidance
MOL     -   Ministry of Labor
MTC     -   Multipurpose Training Center
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF     -   Project Preparation Facility
TTI     -   Teacher Training Institute
UPE     -   Universal Primary Education
VATC    -   Vocational Artisan Training Center
VTB     -   Vocational Training Branch
VTC     -   Vocational Training Center
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER                    The Democratic Republic of Sudan
AMOUNT                      IDA Credit                  SDR 5.2 million
Special Fund Credit        SDR 9.6 million
TERMS                       Standard
Projection Description
Objective:   This rehabilitation project would assist the Government
in (a) meeting critical needs for trained manpower by:
(i) increasing the output and improving the quality of
vocational and post-secondary technical training
institutions; (ii) expanding the training of technical
instructors; and (iii) improving education management and the
strengthening of education planning; and (b) improving primary
and adult education in rural areas by developing new programs
and teacher training.
Components:  The project would include rehabilitation of (a) workshops
and laboratories of the College of Engineering at the Khartoum
Polytechnic and (b) six Vocational Training Centers, through
provisions for equipment, textbooks, and curricula/programs
development. Technical assistance and fellowships would be
included to assist in the above and for institutional support
to (a) two teacher training institutes for program evaluation
and development and teacher training;(b) the Department of
Labor of the Ministry of Labor and the Department of Planning
of the Ministry of Education and Guidance to strengthen their
management, planning and training capacities; and (c) for a
pre-investment study to review and evaluate the programs and
objectives of the 15 Higher Technical Secondary Schools and 8
Vocational Artisan Training Centers.
Benefits:    The project would include expansion and improvement of
the training of (a) 1,400 technicians with an output of 450
per year in Diploma courses; (b) 250 instructors per year for
the vocational training centers which will have a total
enrollment of about 7,000; and (c) improved educational
services in rural areas.
Risks:       No major risk anticipated.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii )
US$ Millions
PROJECT COMPONENTS                      Local      Foreign      Total
1.   Khartoum Polytechnic                0.50        4.26        4.76
2.   Vocational Training Centers         1.23        3.89        5.12
3.   Teacher Training Institutes         0.02        1.28        1.30
4.   Institutional Support               0.01        0.74        0.75
5.   Pre-Investment Study &              0.04        0.96        1.00
Pilot Scheme
6.   Project Administration              0.45        0.55        1.00
Base Cost (January 1984)
Total (1-6)                   2.25        11.68      13.93  1/
7.   Contingencies
Physical (10%)                     0.22         1.17        1.39
Price (22%)                        0.83        2.50        3.33
Total (7)                      1.05        3.67        4.72
Total Project Cost
(1-7)                          3.30       15.35       18.65
of which taxes                 0.53         -          0.53
FINANCING PLAN
Government                          3.2          -          3.2
IDA-SFR                              -         10.0        10.0
IDA                                  -          5.4         5.4
Total                           3.2        15.4        18.6
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
IDA FY                         1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                            2.2      4.2      5.6      3.4
Cumulative                        2.2      6.4    12.0    15.4
APPRAISAL REPORT:
Report No.4747-SU, dated February 10, 1984
MAP: IBRD No. 17348
1/  Including $110,000 PPF advance.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 5.2
million (US$5.4 million equivalent) and a Special Fund Credit of SDR 9.6
million (US$10.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Third Education
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
("Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.         Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$460 (1982 Atlas methodology).1/ Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d will be constructed, and export
is expected to commence in 1986. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industri-al
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
1/ Based on the official exchange rates for the period 1978 - 1980/81.
Based on the exchange rate as of November 15, 1982 of LSd 1.00 =
US$0.769, per capita GNP for 1981/82 would have been about $278.



-2-
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments situation. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$900 million. A further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficits of US$809
million in 1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves
have fallen to only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external
payments arrears had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces --
reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and
absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981/82. The
decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift
from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over
100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.



-3-
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion has slowed in succeeding
years, the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged
nearly 25 percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again
rose to around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in
1982/83 by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in
annual price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent
in the past two years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have
been for social and community services, transfers to local government, and
general administration. The sharp increases in general administration
expenditures were due in large part to rising wages and salaries of
civilians in the central government, cost of living subsidies and
extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues have
increased over the past few years; but since the tax system is relatively
inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with frequent new
tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the relative
contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, to
restore export growth through appropriate policies and public investments,
to improve the performance of the public corporations, and to install an
adequate system for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11; (ii) removal of budgetary subsidies
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii) measures



designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion. These measures,
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible in the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of the Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 = US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984T85 (see
para. 18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this
Meeting, together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the
Paris Club in February 1983 (see para. 17), enabled the IMF to approve a
Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million. The terms
of a new Standby Arrangement for 1984 are under consideration between the
Government and the IMF.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 50 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 25 percent increase, and the total seed cotton
production is now close to 85 percent of the original target in the Export
Action Program. Several investments in the irrigated subsector are
supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be
carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit
1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects
for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, is currently underway. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provides much needed foreign
exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the sub-sector. In
addition, several policy measures have been taken in the areas of cost
recovery, cotton marketing, and institutional reform.
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the Government prepared the first Three-Year
Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81. This



5-
Program has been updated three times; the latest investment program,
covering the period 1983/84-1985/86, was incorporated into the updated
medium-term recovery program presented to the Consultative Group Meeting
held in December 1983.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. The Government has abolished a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in agriculture and
replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational
reforms have also been implemented in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. During the past year the Government has substantially increased
the prices for products of public corporations to improve their financial
positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1983 amounted to around US$8.0 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1984 exceed US$1.0 billion. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. A new
unit, the Directorate for External Finance, is now being established,
directly linked to the Minister of Finance's office, to remedy this
situation and will be supported by a technical adviser provided by the IMF.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, BelgLum,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981. A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "External Finance
Coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with a six-year grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
were made with the commercial banks and other creditors.



-6-
New Recovery Program
18.       In October 1983, the Government issued a new medium-term recovery
program entitled Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic
Development: 1983/84-1985/86.   In addition to a  realistic three-year
public investment program focused on economic recovery, primarily through
rehabilitation of the export sector and economically efficient import
substitution (especially in sugar), this document contained macro
projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term nature of the
recovery process and a set of short and medium term policy objectives
covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand management,
resource allocation and external resource mobilization.
19.       At the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on December
14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program. In addition to program aid, a substantial amount of debt
relief will also be required to close the balance of payment gap for 1984.
The Paris Club is expected to meet on this issue following conclusion of a
new Standby Arrangement with the Fund. If the Government builds on the
progress which has been made by staying within the terms of the IMF Standby
Arrangement, keeping the exchange rate realistic, continuing to encourage
agricultural output by maintaining adequate price levels for crops, and by
adhering to its announced development strategy for the next several years,
a slow but steady improvement in the balance of payments situation can be
anticipated.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$922.0 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 33 credits for a
total of 36 projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; a livestock marketing project; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, two education projects, two highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industrial credit
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
M4iddle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Largely as a result of these problems, the
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU of June 24, 1977) has had to be



redesigned into a much smaller pilot project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976)
encountered serious delays and cost overruns and has had to be terminated.
There have also been lengthy delays in meeting effectiveness conditions,
mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions or project
accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation, or
concluding required co-financing arrangements. These problems have been
brought to the attention of Government authorities, and steps have been
taken to resolve some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal
opinions.
22.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but in FY82 the
rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent. The FY83 disbursement rate was
25.8 percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4
percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a Standby Agreement
with the IMF (para. 12). This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing the updated versions of the recovery program and
in chairing Consultative Group meetings. In broad outline, this program
concentrates Government resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital
investments, particularly those which can contribute to expanding export
earnings, while restraining investment in new projects. At the project
level, IDA has continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated
agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in
infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU of April 4, 1980) was effective in
providing badly needed spare parts and replacement machinery for the
irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the Government to take some
important steps toward improving incentives to farmers through better
cotton prices and costing arrangements for the irrigated schemes, and the
Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up
this earlier effort with the financing of recurrent agricultural inputs.
We will continue to concentrate IDA lending on the agricultural sector and
critical infrastructure during the period ahead, with proposed projects in
sugar rehabilitation, cotton marketing, electric power expansion, highway
maintenance, and petroleum exploration.
Relationship to other Aid Flows
24.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during



- 8 -
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
25.       Although Sudan's unemployment levels are comparatively low,
some unemployment and disguised unemployment exist, especially among low
skill levels in urban areas and, on a seasonal basis, in rural areas. A
key constraint to capacity utilization in Sudanese industry is the shortage
of skilled workers and technicians. This is mainly due to a combination of
an educational and training system which is underutilized, a lack of
trained teachers, and a high demand in neighboring oil producing countries
for technicians and skilled labor which caused a massive emigration of
trained Sudanese. The manpower problem in Sudan has two major effects.
First, the shortages of technicians and skilled manpower have contributed
to major delays in the implementation of the country's investment
programs. Many of the development projects are not completed; this in turn
has contributed directly to the country's current debt service problem.
Secondly, even completed industrial projects, which were initially able to
hire the staff required for full capacity operation, have been unable to
retain them. Recruiters from oil producing Arab Gulf States have, for
example, hired the staff of entire sections of factories.
26.       The formal system of education in Sudan consists of a six-year
primary school cycle, intermediate and high secondary cycles of three
years, and post secondary education ranging from one to six years.
Technical education in industrial technology, agriculture, commerce, home
economics and teacher training is offered at the upper seconday level for a
duration of four years. Higher education is provided by three national
state funded universities (Khartoum, Gezira, and Juba), a private women's
college, a state funded Institute of Technical Colleges, a large branch of
Cairo University primarily for part-time studies, and the Islamic
University. Parallel to the official school system there are Koranic
schools, usually in the Northern Sudan; schools for adults in the South;
non-formal training institutions for school leavers and adults; and a
national literacy campaign.
27.       Despite the progress made in many areas such as literacy and
technical education, the education system continues to suffer from
inadequate facilities, lack of trained teachers, and financial
constraints. In 1981/82, primary school enrollment was about 51 percent of
the age group. Secondary school enrollment was about 23 percent at the
intermediate level and about 11 percent at the upper level. In general,
the system has not yet responded to the needs of the economy: at the upper
secondary level, academic schools enroll about 80 percent of the students
while commercial schools enroll about 8 percent and technical (industrial)
schools enroll about 5 percent of the total. Also in the field of
vocational training, the output of Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) falls
short of skilled labor needs.



-9-
Administration and Planning
28.       Following a national policy of decentralization, the Regions
have administrative, financial and academic control over primary,
intermediate, academic secondary, adult and non-formal education. The
Ministry of Education and Guidance (MOE) is still responsible for technical
secondary education, teacher training, post secondary education, planning
of education and the administration of examinations. Other ministries such
as Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Labor, Public Services, etc., provide
an important contribution to the training of specialized manpower.
29.       Educational planning is carried out by the Department of Planning
and Strategy of MOE. This unit traditionally has been mainly engaged with
statistical work, and only recently the MOE has established an Economics of
Education Division within the Department. Following regionalization
policy, this Division will also be responsible for in-house training of
regional staff in data collection and processing.
Training of Technical Manpower
30.       Technician Training.  The Khartoum Polytechnic, College of
Engineering and Scientific Studies trains technicians in three year Diploma
courses in the following areas: Architecture, Civil Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Laboratory
Technology, Textile Engineering and Surveying. The enrollment at the
College for the last few years has been about 700 per annum in day-time
courses,and the output about 240 graduates per year. Practical training
needs to be improved requiring, inter alia, relevant workshop and
laboratory equipment. The Khartoum Polytechnic is the only institution
which has the potential to produce middle-level technicians in the numbers
required by the economy. About 80% of graduates enter the public sector.
The remainder find jobs in the private sector, and this is most prevalent
among architecture graduates. Data available on emigration of trained
technicians are scarce. However, a large number emigrate after a few years
of work experience.
31.       Vocational Training.  Institutions administering vocational
technical training in the Sudan are: (a) the Department of Labor (DOL) of
the Ministry of Labor, Khartoum, operating currently five VTCs in the
North; (b) the DOL of the Regional Directorates of Public Service and
Manpower, operating three VTCs in the South; and (c) the MOE with eight
Vocational Artisan Training Centres (VATCs) and fifty High Technical
Secondary Schools (HTSS) (industrial, commercial and agricultural). The
five VTCs in the North and three in the South, train skilled workers in
areas such as metalwork, electricity, automotive, agro-mechanics, building
trades and air conditioning. They follow an apprenticeship training
program of three years duration of which the first two are at the training
center and the third year is in industry. Working on a two shift basis,
the VTCs have an enrollment capacity of about 3,200.
32.       Issues in Technician Training.  A full scale manpower survey has
not been undertaken since the formulation of the Six Year Plan of 1976.
However it is clear that demand remains substantially above the current



- 10 -
supply of technicians.  The allocation of labor within the Sudanese public
sector is inefficient with evidence of overstaffing in some areas and lack
of qualified manpower in others. The following are major issues in
t;echnician training:
33.        Curricula have concentrated more on theoretical and academic work
t:han on practical work due in part not only to varying types of equipment
but also to the lack of appropriate equipment. Equipment used for
practical training has been obtained over a period of years from any
available source, resulting in a very unequal standard of equipment for the
different workshops and laboratories. Consequently, practical training is
carried out more in accordance with the type of equipment available than
with curricula designed to meet occupational requirements.
34.        The Student Teacher Ratio in the College of Engineering is a too
low 4:1 for an economic and efficient level of teaching. This is due to a
C,overnment policy of job granting, resulting in overstaffing, aggravated by
low enrollments.
35.       Utilization of classrooms, drawing rooms, workshops and
laboratories is about 50 percent of capacity which is also a reflection of
the lack of adequately trained teaching staff.  Reasons include limited and
outdated equipment; inappropriate timetables; and a biased distribution of
a-vailable funds by the Higher Education Grants Committee in favor of the
universities.
35.        Issues in Vocational Training.  Problems in vocational training
i:nclude: (a) the need to achieve a rapid expansion of vocational training
to meet critical manpower shortages; and (b) maximizing job relevance of
-ocational training in view of the job demand by new labor force entrants
(t'.g. school dropouts and those who do not qualify for the next level of
education). Related to the above, the following issues exist:
37.         Training Programs.  Four out of five VTCs in the Northern Region
have three-year apprenticeship training programs. In most cases the
programs have been based on the occupational profiles and the training
curricula of industrial countries. Although the quality of the output is
good, it is difficult to justify the long duration of these courses given
the limited resources available for training in Sudan and the widely
expressed demand for specialized but lower level skills. A careful
analysis of the training needs of skilled workers, followed by the adoption
oif a more flexible training approach, would result in greatly increasing
the VTCs output.
38.         Lack of Coordination of training activities exists among
diLfferent Ministries and Agencies concerned, as to trades and number of
trainees to be trained each year, development and adoption of curricula,
training methods, standards, and training of instructors.  Following the
recent regionalization policy a new overall coordination mechanism is under
c onsi de rat ion.



- 11 -
39.       Lack of qualified instructors is a serious constraint.  There are
about 239 technical instructors training about 3,100 trainees per year,
resulting in an acceptable instructor/trainee ratio of about 1:13.
However, the level of training and experience differ greatly between
instructors, and upgrading is necessary.
40.       Organizational Issues.  The DOL in Khartoum is administering the
operation of five VTCs, two more are being planned and a further four
proposed. Under its Director and Deputy Director, a Vocational Training
Branch (VTB) has six sections, each headed by an Assistant Director.
Staffing of the VTB is inadequate for the heavy workload. The situation is
aggravated by the lack of proper information on exact training needs and by
the lack of coordination. The DOL in Juba has a Training Section which is
responsible for the administration of vocational training, but the section
is undermanned and under-trained. There is no co-ordination of technical
education, vocational training, youth centres, or public or private
training facilities. As a result duplication of efforts exists among the
limited training activities in the country. At the same time, and although
there is a considerable demand for more vocational training in all trades,
the training institutions are seldom working at more than 50% capacity.
The main reason for this is the lack of qualified instructors for the
introduction of double shifts.
Financing of Education
41.       It is estimated that the Central Government of Sudan bears over
90 percent of the financial burden of education in the country. Although
the direct administrative and financial responsibility for primary,
intermediate and academic secondary schools rests with the regional
governments, the bulk of their resources originate from transfers from the
Central Government.
42.       The most recent data on Central Government expenditure in
education relate to 1980/81.2/ It is estimated that these expenditures
represented 3.6 percent of GNP and 17 percent of the Government's budget in
that year. Recurrent expenditures in education were estimated at about 22
percent of the recurrent budget and development expenditures at about 2
percent of the development budget. The distribution of recurrent
expenditures among the various levels of education was as follows: 44
percent, primary; 17 percent, intermediate; 11 percent, secondary academic
and technical; 20 percent, higher and the remaining allocated to general
administration and adult education.
43.       In 1980/81, the recurrent unit cost for primary education was a
high LS56 due to a fairly low student teacher ratio by African standards
(34:1). The recurrent unit cost at the intermediate secondary level at
LS114 was more in line with other countries in the Region. For both
academic and technical secondary schools, recurrent unit costs averaged
LS207 which is high for the academic schools, due to a low student teacher
ratio (16:1) and the high cost of boarding.
2/ Data on regional governments for more recent years are either not
available or unreliable.



- 12 -
44.       Higher education budgeting is the responsibility of the National
Council for Higher Education. The Council is responsible for four
universities and nine post secondary institutes, including the Khartoum
Polytechnic. The average unit cost for university students in 1981/82 was
estimated at LS3,223, which is about average for Eastern Africa. Average
unit cost for Institutes of Higher Education was estimated at about LS2,263
with the Polytechnic showing a higher unit cost at LS2,647 because of a
very low student/teacher ratio in day-courses (4:1). The Polytechnic,
however, also carries evening courses for which the students pay a small
fee (LS60 per annum).
45.       Traditionally students attending higher education institutions
receive tuition and boarding as well as pocket money. The Government has
been seriously concerned with the financial burden of higher education,
especially, at the university level. This subject was examined in a Bank
Group Sector Study3/ which recommended the adoption of various cost
savings and recovery measures. The Government has recently started
implementing some saving measures such as excluding from boarding those
students coming from the Khartoum area, charging small fees to evening
students and phasing out student allowances. However, given the social and
political sensitivity of the matter, progress in the implementation of such
measures will be slow. The dialogue on the subject of cost savings
established with the Government by the Bank Group as a result of, inter
alia, the Sector Study is continuing.
46.       Total expenditure of six VTCs in 1982/83 was estimated at about
LS1.9 million. Average unit recurrent cost for the five VTCs in the North
was estimated at LS193 and for the MTC in Juba at LS508 or about 2.6 times
that of the Northern Centers. However, the latter institutions enroll only
day time students, while all students in Juba are boarders. Furthermore,
evening students in the North account for about 54 percent of the total
student enrollment whereas in Juba no evening students are enrolled.
Government Education Policies
47.       In 1977, the Government formulated an ambitious long-term policy
and development strategy in education, based on the comprehensive Education
Sector Review (ESR) which was carried out with assistance from UNESCO and
the Bank Group. In this, extending opportunities in basic general
education was given top priority, together with universalization of primary
education (UPE) in 15 years. Limiting access to lower secondary to
eventually not more than 25 percent of primary school leavers is another
long-term objective. At the upper secondary level, admission would be
limited to 50 percent of intermediate school leavers, who would be divided
equally between academic and technical/vocational streams, implying a
significant increase in the proportion of enrollments in HTSSs from its
current share of 10 percent, especially those for industrial technical
education.
3/ IBRD Report No. 184954: The Costs of Higher Education,
December, 1977.



- 13 -
48.       The Government's plan for achieving UPE in 15 years is an
extremely ambitious target requiring capital and recurrent financial
efforts well beyond the financial power of the Regions. Assistance by the
Central Government is inhibited by Sudan's difficult economic situation,
and consequently the projected rate of expansion is not expected to be
achieved. The Government 's proposal to ensure that 50 percent of the upper
secondary entrants enroll in HTSS has not materialized and also appears
difficult to achieve under the current circumstances. Industrial education
(engineering) has only increased slightly since 1977/78.
49.       At the post-secondary level, the Government has succeeded to some
extent in changing the ratio of arts based disciplines to those based on
science and technology. However, the output of technical personnel still
falls far short of requirements. In particular, the current annual output
of technicians from higher technical institutes is inadequate to meet the
needs of the country for middle-level technical manpower, caused mainly by
the intense migration to the Arab Gulf States.
50.       In view of the economic constraints described in Part I, the
Government has of necessity reconsidered its education development
strategy, not by questioning its validity but by postponing the target
dates until more favorable circumstances prevail. On an interim basis, top
priority is being given to training in the skills most needed for the
development of the various sectors of the economy in support of the
economic recovery program. In the longer term, the Government intends to
return to realizing the objectives of the ESR when able to do so. This
pragmatic approach seems sensible in view of current economic constraints,
and the proposed project has been designed to be consistent with it.
Previous Bank Group Operations in the Sector
51.       The Bank group has financed two education projects in Sudan.  The
First Education Project (Credit 122-SU, signed in 1972) provided US$8.5
million to improve and expand agricultural training, teacher training and
secondary education. A Project Performance Audit (No. 3429) was issued on
April 24, 1981. The project suffered implementation delays, mainly due to
weakness in management and difficult country economic conditions. However,
the project has expanded agricultural training, teacher training and
secondary education, and four years after its completion, it is now showing
success in achieving its educational goals particularly in the training of
agricultural technicians.
52.       The Second Education Project (Credit 547-SU, signed in 1975)
provided US$10.0 million for establishing a system of Integrated Rural
Education Centers (IREC),4/ secondary schools, a primary teacher training
institute and expansion of a vocational training center. Implementation of
the second project has been satisfactory. However, delays in
implementation have occurred due to management weakness, shortages of
construction material, internal transportation problems to numerous remote
sites in both Northern and Southern Sudan and delay in timely provision of
4/ Combined primary schools and centers for adult education/training
located in areas most deprived of educational opportunities.



- 14 -
local counterpart funds and more recently security problems in the remote
areas of the South. Following changes in the project management structure,
and due to a more timely and adequate provision of counterpart funds,
implementation improved and the project was closed on June 30, 1983.
Construction work and finalization of accounts continue and are expected to
be completed by March 1984, some 21 months beyond the original June 30,
1982, Credit closing date. The project, although reduced in scope due to a
cost overrun, is expected basically to achieve its educational goals.
Additional work is, however, required to consolidate the IREC system and to
strengthen teacher training and evaluation. This is being addressed in the
proposed Third Education Project.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project is designed to: (a) assist in meeting the
most pressing needs for trained manpower by: (i) increasing the output and
improving the quality of existing vocational and post-secondary technical
tratining institutions; (ii) expanding the training of technical
instructors; and (iii) improving education management and strengthening of
education planning; and (b) improve primary and adult education in rural
areas by developing new programs and teacher training.
Rationale for Bank Support
54.       The principal thrust of the Bank's strategy for Sudan is to
concentrate on improving the country's balance of payments situation
through rehabilitation of existing capital investments, support for key
infrastructure projects, increasing Sudan's resource mobilization, and
preparing the way for longer term development activities, as outlined in
paragraph 23. That strategy recognizes shortages of trained manpower as a
serious constraint to recovery and development, and includes education
projects as part of the long term process necessary to provide an adequate
level of trained manpower. At the same time, the country's serious
financial constraints require that education projects be relatively modest
in size, do not create undue recurrent cost financing burdens, and are
directed to the training of skills critical to the development process.
This project, which concentrates on the training of people in the practical
skills needed for development, was designed to be consistent with and
supportive of that strategy. The institutions being assisted are those
which are the most important in the training of engineering technicians and
ski'lled workers in such fields as electricity, automotive, agro-mechanic,
metal-working, and the building trades. The project is also designed to
achieve these results at the least cost, both for capital investments and
recurrent costs, through the rehabilitation and better utilization of
existing facilities.
Detailed Features
Khartoum Polytechnic
55.       Technician Training.  The proposed project includes provisions to
expand the output of the College of Engineering of the Khartoum



- 15 -
Polytechnic. This component would provide for an increase in enrollment of
700 students in day-time technician training courses which would double its
enrollment to 1,400 day-time students with an output of about 450
technicians per year in three year diploma programs. This would be
accomplished basically by improved utilization of existing facilities and
staff and the introduction of a revised curriculum/program. All nine
Departments of the College of Engineering would be involved in the
curricula/program development, requiring a consolidation of the existing
physical plant and including one new meteorology laboratory and
rehabilitation of equipment for 27 existing workshops and laboratories.
New instructional equipment would be provided to enable improvement of
practical training. The Government has agreed to an enrollment target of
1,400 day-time students in diploma courses at the College of Engineering of
the Khartoum Polytechnic by July 31, 1988 and will prepare a plan for Bank
Group review by July 31, 1985 outlining how it intends to achieve this
target (Section 3.07 of the Draft Development Credit and Special Fund
Credit Agreements).
56.       Instructor Training.  As a result of the above consolidation and
improved utilization of the facilities of the College, the Department of
Education which shares the workshops and laboratories, of other Departments
in the Polytechnic would be able to produce about 250 instructors annually
for the VTCs. Included in the curriculum for the instructors would be a
new training approach using Modules of Employable Skills (MES) which is to
be adopted by the VTCs (para. 59). The new system, developed by ILO, would
provide the necessary flexibility to the department to offer courses for
instructors at all levels and for all trades on demand and to further
double the output without further capital investment should the need
arise.  Included in the project would be funds   to train the first batch
of about 90 instructors in a two year course during the final years of
project implementation.
57.       Technical Assistance for the College of Engineering consisting of
about 71 man-months of specialists services would be included to assist in
the carrying out of the above programs. This assistance would involve a
team of 15 different specialists. Terms of Reference have been prepared
for all specialists to be financed under the project.
58.       The specialists, though working in different geographical and
technical areas, would form one team headed by the Senior Technical
Advisor.  The specialists would prepare and finalize the preliminary
equipment lists developed during appraisal, including spare parts for
replenishing existing workshops and laboratories, and equipment lists for
the new trades and modern technological applications, they would also
prepare workshop and laboratory lay-outs, give technical advice on
questions which would arise in context with rehabilitation programs, give
training in the respective field of competencies in connection with
equipment, prepare and implement relevant curricula in general, and in
particular, prepare, field test and gradually introduce the employment:
oriented vocational training concept to establish an instructor training
scheme in accordance with the MES approach. The team members would work in



- 16 -
close collaboration with the Project Implementation Unit, which is the
administrative body for implementation and headquarters for the team.
However, their duty stations would be the respective institutions.
Vocational Training Centers
59.       Vocational Training would be supported under the proposed project
by providing assistance to the Government in implementing its strategy of
strengthening and expanding training in various skills to meet manpower
requirements for the industrial, private and public sectors and to overcome
shortages of manpower caused by the emigration of skilled workers.
60.       In particular, the project would provide assistance to six
selected VTCs to improve the quantitative and qualitative aspects of
vocational training through: (a) rehabilitating existing instructional
equipment through provision of spare parts; (b) providing new equipment
where required to maximize the utilization of existing workshops; (c)
establishing new trade options (including review of extrance requirements
in the light of national needs and as requested by the public and private
sector) and training equipment for those new trades; (d) preparing, field
testing and gradually introducing an employment oriented vocational
training concept using MES which would allow the present enrollment to
increase gradually from 3,100 to about 7,000; (e) strengthening the
inventory and storage system in the VTCs; and (f) improving the preventive
maintenance and repair system. The VTC component would include, inter
alia, spare parts for existing equipment, new workshop equipment, vehicles,
generators, audio-visual equipment and training software as well as
technical assistance, and in-service training of about 190 VTC
instructors.
61.       Technical Assistance for the VTCs consisting of about 54
man-months of specialists services who would share duties at the College of
Engineering (para 57), would be provided under the project to assist in the
implementation of the above items (a) to (f). In addition, about 24
man-months of fellowships would be included for overseas training of
instructors in the new fields of Industrial Electronics (12 man-months);
Agro-Mechanics (6 man-months); and Air Conditioning and Refrigeration (6
man-months).
Teacher Training Institutes
62.       Program Development of the Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs)
would be supported under the project. This would include provision of
technical assistance, inter alia, to further assist the IREC program
initiated under the Second IDA Education Project. The program has been
carried out by the Maridi and Bakht er Ruda TTIs on a pilot basis in both
primary education and adult education--literacy, agriculture, health,
social activities, sports, etc., as well as IREC teacher training.
Included would be support (technical assistance) for finalizing the IREC
educational programs, strengthening of teacher training programs, and
carrying out an evaluation of the pilot programs. The latter aspect is of
particular importance since it would highlight the degree of participation



- 17 -
of various Government agencies in the IREC program, and would indicate how
to promote such participation. Provision for vehicles would also be
included for field visits of trainees and staff for both TTIs.
63.       Technical Assistance  to be provided would consist of about
108 man-months of specialists services as follows: for Bakht er Ruda TTI,
24 man-months of a specialist in teacher training for integrated education
in rural areas, and six man-months for a program evaluation specialist; for
Maridi TTI, two man-years of a specialist in adult/rural education; two
man-years of a specialist in educational programs for women; two
man-years of a specialist in teacher training curriculum development (rural
education); and six man-months of a specialist in program evaluation.
Institutional Support
a) Departments of Labor (DOL)
64.       The Project would assist, inter alia, to strengthen planning,
coordination and monitoring of vocational training in the country by
provision of assistance to the Vocational Training Branch and the
Vocational Training Section of the DOL in Khartoum and Juba respectively.
In particular it would: (a) assist in the establishment and initial
operations of a new vocational training section to supervise the proper use
of facilities, to formulate training policies, and to plan and co-ordinate
training activities; (b) assist in improving and strengthening the skill
testing and certification system; (c) develop a record, inventory follow-up
and evaluation system of training activities; (d) establish a system of
analysis of the training needs, leading to new training methodologies and
appropriate training materials; (e) assist in preparing an instructor
training plan; and (f) strengthen the material and supply section of the
DOL in Khartoum. The project would also provide funds to rehabilitate and
replenish office equipment and materials, audio-visual aids, and supplies
for production of modules of employable skills training software as well as
vehicles.
65.       Technical assistance to the DOL consisting of about 61 man-months
of specialist would be included to assist in the carrying out of the above
tasks. In addition about 30 man-months of fellowship training for five
Vocational Training Officers would be included.
b) Ministry of Education and Guidance
66.       The Department of Planning and Strategy of the MOE would be
provided support in the form of fellowships and equipment to strengthen its
planning which would assist in particular in the training of regional staff
and in streamlining its activities. The Department has traditionally
carried out mainly statistical work and only recently has expanded its
function with the creation of an Economics of Education Division.
Following the ongoing regionalization process, the Planning Department: has
the added responsibility of managing and training regional staff in data
collection and analysis, a task for which it does not now have the
necessary expertise, and will be the nucleus for the new coordination
mechanism mentioned in para. 38.   The project would provide fellowships
for three



- 18 -
staff (9 man-months total)to upgrade their training skills. In order to
assist the Department in handling the inflow of data from the various
Provinces and in storing them, the project would provide also a small
computer and related software, and the assistance of a computer operator.
Pre-Investment Study and Pilot Scheme
67.       In their present status the fifteen High Technical Secondary
Schools and the eight Vocational Artisan Training Centers are not providing
an efficient and valid contribution to the national training system.
The proposed project would include funds for (a) a pre-investment study to
review the curricula and staff development (12 man-months), and (b) a pilot
scheme to undertake limited physical rehabilitation--(furniture and
equipment) as identified during the study. Satisfactory completion of the
pre-investment study would be a condition of disbursement for the pilot
scheme (para 4, Schedule 1 of the Draft Development Credit and Special Fund
Credit Agreements).
68.       Technical assistance to carry out this study would consist of two
specialists (total of 12 man-months), one in technical education for the
HTSSs and one specialist in technical vocational training for the VATCs.
Duties would include an inventory of existing facilities and equipment,
redefinition of the objectives of the schools and the centers, potential to
fulfill established objectives, and evaluation of the curricula vis-a-vis
training requirement existing in the country. The study would include
recommendations for the two systems in accordance with identified needs of
potential employers, of higher training institutions and in general of the
Sudanese economy.
Project Cost
69.       The total cost of the Project, including duties and taxes and
contingencies, is estimated at US$18.6 million. Base costs are in January
1984 prices. (A cost summary table is given in the Credit and Project
Summary). Total foreign costs amount to US$15.4 million or 82%. Foreign
exchange costs for specialist services (369 man-months in total) is
estimated at 100,000 man-year on average. Fellowships (39 man-months in
total) are estimated at $25,000 per man-year, including travel, tuition and
board. Civil works represent only 9 percent of the project costs and
comprise mainly rehabilitation works. Contingencies for price escalation
are included as follows: Local costs - 1984, 21 percent; 1985, 19 percent;
1986, 16.5 percent; 1987, 15 percent; and 1988, 15 percent . Foreign Costs
- 1984, 7.5 percent; 1985, 7 percent; 1986, 6.5 percent; and 1987 and 1988,
6 percent.
Financing
70.       Government will finance all local costs, amounting to US$3.2
million equivalent. Foreign costs would be funded under the IDA Special
Fund (IDA-SF) to an amount of $10.0 million and an IDA Credit of $5.4
million.



- 19 -
Implementation
71.       The project would be implemented over a period of four years.
The project is scheduled to be completed by December 30, 1987, with a
Closing Date of June 30, 1988. Due to the nature of the project (minimal
civil works, inter alia) and with implementation to be assisted by a team
of highly experienced specialists (para. 72), this implementation schedule
is deemed to be realistic. Project design includes measures such as the
use of special project accounts and technical assistance for procurement
which should avoid many of the implementation problems of the previous
project.
72.       Administration. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established
in the MOE to implement the two previous education projects would be
responsible for the administration and financial control of the project,
including coordination with the various Ministries and Departments. The
post of project director of the PIU is already filled with a qualified
Sudanese. Appointments to the positions of assistant project director and
accountant would be filled with staff having qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (Section 3.05, Draft Development Credit and Special Fund
Credit Agreements). To ensure appropriate and timely coordination between
the PIU and the various Ministries and Departments involved, the Khartoum
Polytechnic for the Polytechnic component, the DOL of the Khartoum Ministry
of Labor for the VTCs in Northern Sudan and the DOL of the Equatoria
Regional Ministry of Finance for the MTC in Juba and the MOE would appoint
representatives to coordinate with the PIU and obtain a rapid decision from
their superiors where implementation of any specific component may be
affected. Appointment of these representatives would be a condition of
Credit Effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) Draft Development Credit Agreement).
The PIU and the various Departments would be strengthened with technical
assistance specialists in procurement, equipment repair, curriculum
development and testing methodology. It was agreed that an experienced
organization, agency or consulting firm would be appointed not later than
September 1, 1984, for recruitment and administration of these specialists
(Section 3.06 Draft Development Credit and Special Fund Credit Agreements).
To provide adequate project implementation and project accounting the PIU
would be strengthened by an additional 60 man/months of specialist services
in these fields. Specific duties of these specialists would include the
training of local counterparts.   The remaining specialists would be posted
in the project offices referred above.
73.       Project Preparation Facility (PPF). To further advance project
preparation, a PPF in the amount of US$110,000 equivalent has been approved
for 12 man-months of technical assistance to advance preparation of, inter
alia, lists of equipment for institutions included in the project. The PPF
will be refinanced under the proposed Development Credit.
74.       Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  For the
preparation of designs, bidding documents and supervision of construction,
consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines. It is expected that local firms would be selected to carry out
this work. Costs of these consultants is estimated at US$1,000 per
man-month which includes salary, fees, travel and subsistence. These
consultants would be under the supervision of the Director of the PIU.



- 20 -
Procurement
75.       Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group guidelines for procurement. Contracts for (a) furniture,
equipment and vehicles contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each (estimated to total US$1.0 million including contingencies) and (b)
civil works contracts (estimated total US$1.7 million including
contingencies) which are not expected to attract foreign firms due to the
small size and nature (rehabilitation) of the work would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. In addition, procurement of all
furniture, equipment and vehicles which are to be financed under the IDA
Special Fund would be limited to firms from Part II countries and eligible
Part I countries. When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference of 15
percent or the existing applicable rate of import duties, which ever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
76.       Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award would be
required only for civil works contracts above US$250,000 and US$50,000
equivalent for furniture, equipment and vehicles.
77.       Technical Assistance.  All specialists and consultants would be
hired under contracts on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group
in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
It is expected that ILO will be awarded the contract to provide and
administer the specialists and fellowships under the vocational/technical
components of the project. ILO has had a close association with the
Government in the field of Vocational education and has a good working
relationship with the Government. Curriculum vitae and courses of study of
fellowship recipients, including proposed training institutions, would be
subject to Bank Group review.
Disbursement
78.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of: a) 45 percent of
total or 100 percent of foreign expenditures for civil works and
professional services; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, equipment and vehicles, 100 percent of ex-factory cost
if manufactured locally, or 65 percent of local expenditures if procured
locally; and (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance.  All disbursements would be fully
documented.   Due to the special nature of the project (rehabilitation and
minimal civil works plus administration by a team of experienced
specialists) a comparison with disbursements of previous projects in Sudan



- 21 -
is not appropriate. A faster disbursement has been assumed on the basis of
the content of the project and the use of ILO to assist in the
implementation of the project.
79.       Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, two Special Accounts, operated by the
PIU, would be established in a bank in Sudan with initial deposits of
$250,000 and $500,000 from the Credit Account and the Special Fund Credit
Account respectively. The accounts would be replenished by IDA and IDA-SF
on the basis of documentary evidence of payments made from the account for
goods and services eligible for financing under the project. The opening
of the accounts would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. (Section
6.01(a) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 6.01 (b) of
the Special Fund Credit Agreement).
80.       In order to ensure that the Government's counterpart funding also
would be available when needed, the Government would establish a separate
Project Advance Account into which it would deposit LS 0.17 million to
finance the Borrower's contribution to the project. The account would be
replenished at the beginning of each semester in an amount estimated to be
required to cover expenditures for the project during such semester and
which are not to be covered by withdrawals from the Development Credit
account or from the Special Fund Credit account. Establishing the Project
Advance Account and depositing an initial amount of LS 0.07 million would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), Draft Development
Credit Agreement); and an additional LS 0.10 million would be deposited by
September 1, 1984 (Section 3.01(b)of the Draft Development Credit and
Special Fund Credit Agreements).
81.       Reporting and Evaluation.   Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Bank Group by the PIU each
December and June. The format would be agreed upon prior to the date of
the first submittal and would be modified as deemed necessary during
implementation of the project. The PIU would prepare and send to the Bank
Group for comments within six months from the Closing Date, a completion
report assessing attainment of project objectives, project implementation
and initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the performance
of the Government, the Bank Group and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned.
Auditing
82.       The PIU, a financially autonomous entity under the MOE, would
maintain separate accounts for all project activities in conformity with
national accounting practices. These accounts would be controlled
according to normal Government financial control procedures which are
satisfactory. The PIU would prepare an annual report summarizing the
financial situation of all project operations, which would be submitted to
the Bank Group. Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures financed under the project. Auditing would be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, within twelve months
following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. (Section 4.01 of the
Draft Development Credit and Special Fund Credit Agreements).



- 22 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
83.       The project is expected to assist in expanding and improving
training to about 1,400 students in technician (Diploma) courses, and about
250 technical instructors per year who would teach an average of about
8,000 vocational and technical trainees and in an annual production of
about 6,700 semi-skilled and 450 skilled workers. The above targets would
be attained gradually, following the adoption-of proposed changes in the
training system. In particular it is estimated that the output of the
Polytechnic and VTCs would result in an increase of about 25 percent and 35
percent respectively. Improvement in training is expected to raise
qualifications and increase work performance. Ongoing and future
development projects would benefit from the increased supplv of technical
manpower and its improved quality. The rehabilitation nature of the
proposed project would result in the projected enrollment increases to be
achieved at low capital and recurrent costs.
84.       Project support to the DOL in Khartoum and Juba and to the
Planning Department of MOE would help improve the management, planning and
evaluation of the education and training.   Support to both Maridi and
Bakht er Ruda TTIs would result in improved education services in rural
areas.
Risks
85.       No major risks are anticipated.  Migration of skilled manpower is
expected to continue but at a lower rate than in the past. The possible
impact of security problems in the South, experienced recently under the
Second Education Project (para 52) is minimized, since the project
component in the South is in the main urban area of Juba. The use of an
international agency to assist in the execution of the project and the
establishment of a project advance account are expected to reduce risks of
delays in the implementation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the Draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement between the Democratic Republic of Sudan and the Association as
Administrastor of the Special Fund and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement and
the Special Fund Agreement would be: a) opening of the Special Accounts and
Project Advance Account (including depositing an amount of LS70,000) and b)
appointment of representatives from government departments and agencies to
coordinate project execution with the PIU. Other special conditions are
summarized in Annex III.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
IDA Credit and Special Fund Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 24, 1984



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 1
SUDAN                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                                   REFElEENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
___         /b  RECENT  /b            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       197"    ESTIMATF         AFRICA S. OF SAhiARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IK)
TOTAL                                2505.8       2505.8       2505.8
AGRICULTURAL                          671.8        677.0        684.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     150.0        190.0        380.0               254.6                     1147.9
ENERGY CDNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         58.0        170.0        101.0               79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   11228.0        13849.0      19242.0
URBAi POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         I.3          16.4         25.7               19.5                        28.5
PUOULATION PROJECTIONS
2OPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 33.7
:;TATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 111.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHiED                                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M.                            4.5          5.5          7.5               29.5                        56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               16.7         20.5         27.3               94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            43.7         43.7         44.2               45.0                        45.9
15-64 YRS                            53.2         53.4         53.0               52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                          3.1          2.9          2.8                2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0          2.1          3.0                2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                 6.9          6.7          7.1                6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TiHOUS)          46.5         46.7         46.6               47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATII RATE (PER TiHOUS)         24.5         22.1         18.4               19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.3          3.3                3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TIlOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          92.0        100.0        104.0               87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0         91.0        101.0               88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAIMS PER DAY)            65.0         66.0         69.0               51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           24.0         22.0         22.0/c             18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            40.1         32.4         20.8               25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTHI (YEARS)         39.6         41.8         46.6               47.4                        51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         168.0        150.4        121.8              126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  .,         19.0         46.0/d             24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                  ..         61.0         49.071             56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                  ..         13.0         45.0/d             18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         16.0         22.0/e             28.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..               65.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33420.0      14060.0       8800.0            27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              3030.0/f    1720.0        1410.0             3456.2                      2292.0
POP. PER HiOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               980.0/       920.0/B    1010.0/c            1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                               13O.0,Lag   190.07g      450.07W             380.6                       402.3
RURAL                              4400.0/f,R  5120.0/g    1760.0/c             3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          5.1
URBAN                                  ..          5.7/h
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..          2.5/h
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..         26.4/h
RURAL                                  ..           ..
- - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - _ _ _ _-                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- -_- -__ _-__ _ _ _ _-__ _ _ _-__ _ _ _ _-__ _ _ _ _ _-__ _ _ _ _ _-__ _ _-_ _ - -_ _ -_ -_ _ _ __- _ _



-  25  -
ANNEX I
T ABL  e A L E  
SUDAN                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIEET
SUUAN                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES)  7a
MOST                         (MUST RECENT ESTLMATE) /b
/6  RECENr  lb            LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
19L;Ob       19870- b STiNATI-          AFRICA S. OF SAHAtA       AFRICA S. OF SAdARA
EDUCATION
AUJUSrEL  ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRL1LmAY:   TUTAL                      25.0         38.0         51.0                63.9                         97.2
11ALE                     35.U          46.0         bU.0                73.6                        103.1
FEMALE                    14.0          29.0         43.0                51.6                         88.5
.20;.DARY; TOTAL                       3.0          7.0         16.0                12.5                         17.2
MALL                        5.0         10.0         20.0                16.7                         23.5
FLDLALE                    1.U           4.0         12.0                 3.1                         14.2
VuCATLUNAL (X OF SECONDARY)               3.4          1.4/i         4.0/i,j             7.3                          5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIiARY                               41.0          47.0         34.0                46.4                         42.9
SECONDARY                             20.U          17.0         20.0                25.1                         23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  13.1         14.7/h       32.0                36.5                         37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/TUOUSAND POP               1.4          2.0            ,.                 3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TH1OUSAND POP            17.0/k       80.4          71.2                45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/TIHOUSAND POP                O.87T        3.2           5.6                 2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  4.4           ..           1.0                 4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           0.9           ..          0.6                  1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TUTAL LABOR FORCE (RHOUS)             3722.0        4544.0       6086.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       9.6          10.2         10.9                34.5                         36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 86.0          82.0         72.0                76.9                         56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     6.0           8.0         10.0                 9.8                         17.5
PARTICLPATION RArE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.2          32.8         31.6                40.9                         37.0
MALE                                   59.3         58.2         55.6                53.0                         47.1
FEMALE                                  6.4          6.8          7.0                28.9                         27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4           1.5                 1.2                          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
LIIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             20 9/1 m
HIGiEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             50.17         49.2/n
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                S.O/l,m      5.17.
LOWEST 40X OF LiOUSEHOLDS             13.91l,m      14.57..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUtE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        137.0/o             165.9                        534.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..         8O.0/e              87.4                        255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..        11S.O/o             100.8                        491.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..        100.07W              64.6                        188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PUVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                39.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         85.0/e              69.0
.NOT AVAILABLE
NiOT APPLICABLE
1i 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g Government hospital establishments; /h 1966; /i Beginning 1970, the duration of
general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /j Includes programs of S training centers operated by
Department of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Ministry of Youth and Sport; /k 1963; /1 1964;
/m Omdurman, urban; /n 1967-68; /o 1978.
May 1983



-  26  -                                                                             ANNEX I
P.oe 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL luDICATORS
loses:  Although the data are draw  fro       -         sorcs .enrll!y judged she  -oa  auchnoloalre and reolIable, So, shoud ..   ho nose..d thu,I  they may notr be  neatnay
roeparable because of th.e luk of  ...ndardied defniflns cd lcncpom  nued by  lfan  curleuIn. cotlernn   the data.  The daIs ara ..one.thelems, noefu  to
desc.ribe orders of asgolnude, led ..a.. teda, sod   arctrle  eral  major dlfforeoces be__encoorla
Th. reerncgops are (I) the suns .... try grou.p of the aubjecs coun.try ond () )ac-ootr   grou.p slob uoeeohut high., avrae    oe  su  lbe co rygoup of rho
sbeocutry (_espt fur  HNigh Inome".. 0il SuFortets' group oher  'Middle Income Nurth Afoca and Mlddl  Oust  Is  hoe  bacnen  otue  sol-onlouru
effi.line).  In che o-fero-  groop data the  -nergesar  populsolon  -igbted arilh-iec   neunsI for eahrb  ind llcau  and shc-  uoly obec ssjorltp of lb e cu..otrie  In a
refrene,grops
AREA (thuos..od sqi.)Pratn  por PhysIcIan- Pnpulatioo diolded by cosbo r nf practlrlag
Totl1 -Totl.     rfceara  uprlslug lund area and ilandase; 190k,                                     phyoluo q.a.       ee..  ro  a ae.dlcal ochool atuleslylcl
1-970 sod 1980 dal.Pplto   e   uuo   esn    ouaIndoddb  ounber 1of  rctco
sgluorl- Omtlaa-    f    ioglcuturl    aued Iaup.raily or pre.n.n. -ly                        nale und feau.e gea~~dualeoure          lhutnre,pruot Col1 ....a. uId
four -r.Ps, pastures  .. euketaod klnob1en go.r'denor to lIe ful1ow; 1960,                         nrIg aotillle.
1900 end 1980 doco.                                                                              rrllo   reH Oupla  Oed .-.on, urbun, and rural -  .Pnpulatlo  lotl.I1
urAc, and ruul I) vIded by sholo rePec.oei nusber of huspltal beds
GNiP PER CAPITA (05$1) - GISPper ouplta ou    .ue   at onren  -uket prices,                             .na.lable to public andprvt  gonea  god apaclalleed hospItal un.d
calclate  by  age  ounttocmehd as Coeld lank Atla.. 11909-Al beettu;                            rehbill.ltatlncane--            ptasaee tabiiahuu Ptt          _ hesue ttly   tffod
1960.19,00, aod 1961 daa                                                                              Y It  leus  ocr Phynoian.  tutbItabsens   prnnidtig  pInc11pally cuae dlal
c_rar  nut Inluded.Ocl R          oupa1 o,hu_oenr, inlu de health und
ENERGY CONSUMttPTOttfog CaPITO - AonuI apptentl onneumyotu  of ou ra                                   sedilu1 Pettr  nutipac--eatoot   -tffed by a phyalcton (but by a uadical
yr1laYe"Iergy (caIn   I-Ignt,ptoec   cus   Ia sod lydro-, ou..ee                                     aslta, nurse.   ,   dosfe, etc)        -th nfferr l-poteu    conadsln  n
sodgataalelectricIty)I  iogasof coa  ouialntPer caylco;                                              pro-ids a liethed r.oueo   edlc-1 foci ctlea.  Fop IrtIItloal pur Poses
1960, 1900, acd 1910 data.                                                                           urhen hnsyltolu  Include WEOOs prilioyal/,enerl hospttala, and  -rurl
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                        SpoclalledtoPIta   Ir  i-oludod o.ly uod. -r otl.
Ta-tal  ppoacuc  ldY-Tear (c_hoosodal - Al of July 1; 1960, 1970, at19log                          Admtani... per Hnupicol led - Totu1 nouher of adoi-on..s tour dilhotages
daca.                                                                                               froS:-  hospioalo dibided by cho  olro.es
fes  Po.p.l.tio (rretof total) - lutia of orbso co Itata  populatIon;
diffarauf defuiltines of urban arassy  ffeot l.sparobility of data                                  NGllS
am oug conotr,,las 9b19h   1070, and 1981 dato.Onrghoofloo l(proserbowld-tta,ua,sdrrl
Poultin    rsfclos-Ahouhoo1  colotoi of a group ofiodoldoaIt eho  hbar  lInIn   quarters
PouaoIn Year  20000 - C-orrc  PoPu1atinopojlosar    ead  on log                              sod their subI sea. d.  oAb.rdr eor ldget ouy or nay no- eIncluded in
toa   ousloby age  hau  awn and thei   otls   adfriiythhoeolfrscttoaprue.
rates   ProjecIonPr . p raeer  fucuo tesyraecar lseo.Pv.fnhre                                   eragoonhet of rersuol- perto.un ~           ,- ttlub-c.audeolsnl rago       hr
lenela  ssogl~life epecany at bIrth inces...iog slob oocnryI pe                            fyesu   pe  moo I  ut  uhu,  odrua  oc_uid ...oentlnool
caIajuc   ee   n   eaelife      soetnr   tbligu  01.1                                   doe lion, resectlowy   fow liog   o I       ude ouc      uetorcoe   n
yeaos.  The  arsete  fr  oeily ratealso hov  three Ie_l                                         utocle    ac.-
assomlc  decline to fertIlity  ...rdlg .t..o.. lenel ao,d p-_l fauly                           ducoon toflct lcy Ip -orco  of deo11ino) - Intal, nrhab ad  ou
pIlanog perfo-ane   tchcsuryI  thh eoasge  on f thro    lefnetlnldelnswt   lcrct  10_ linng,,                                                           qurar   epercetge
onble-tlo-  of -eorteiy and fertility treods for projection  purposes.                           of cocul, nrhso, and rura  deollngo  teapocti-ly.
S,taiona.ry popoltlo.- InaIttuc Inory populatIon thare lo no groeth
slcoth  b.lrhb rate I  rhual Itoh'b death rod, sod as   h g                              tDUCATION
ltuouereao cnsat.  ThiIsI Is scheva  oyfter f_rctty-r-ta                                 Adjouted E-rlont  talIlo-n
de,lithe to the repsooner.t lacel ofootccryooto    ae   byPlaysho      ou    ueudrnle -Io-to 1011, sale anId feIsll
eah Inrto   f .oenrplce.     tsl e.ePly   Th   cnluoyerlleco  olor                                                  -t  h   r ry loe   uprcna-              f  epcZr
popoloolIol_eaue  tlaod0  the basis of the yrujclted rtrca-PXisrysohoul-uge  -popoluioo; -ornall  Intdw   child-w  aged h-Il
Istice  of the population In the feel 2000, ond the raet  of d-c1Sne of                            yearn hoc adjusted  for diffrentI '.ogth. of prtsery educa.tion; for
f-rltlretoe         Iaoet l.ena.                                                                   couo irie Io .. .no           ..o.ouot5nerulon  55I ..ed 101 peeceot
Yeraolory  poplsfo I s reac:.hed - The year  h-a stat i.-y                                       eior none ~Pupl- ur  bton o  aonthoffIial: school age.
popullaion  ilee sill bo r...hed.                                                               Seondary orhoo1 - cuoItul, sae  n   I..ulo - Conp.led an ubtow; ucund,yp
PPoplatlot Detaity                                                                                     Iduco.t.onr-qutre   at leus  four y..r. of opprored prlar  istuo In
Per an. kt. - eid-ysur pupulatlit per oqore ktlo...otr (100 he--rwu  uf                              prooldet gene-o, --otoa ri           e  h e   rligi...roc clon  For
ttlae;Ih,1900, wod loodaa980lotly   f1 to  10 yearn of uge  Iore poore cI                                                                                  re   e
Per so. kn..arclt llatd - Computed as  bhona for agricl.tua  lan1I.d                                 ge--raly  -ocldrd.
ooly; 1960, 1970 atd 1960 data.                                                               Ectloa- no1 loot(percoo  of na...odaryl     Ona -oa             rlsitutlo-
Population Ag  Itoenctue   (PIrwt  - Ctitac-  (f-li yrurs), ..aukiog-age (15-                        iooledectntoh    l    dotral  o  ohe  progr.. Iohlch operate  indepood-
IA   ar)  and retrd (h5 pe.rs a.d noor) as percentg.e  of old-year                                 eoy or an depctr Ir fncnay  ntttos
Wpepulatto;190  190,ad 1981 dat.-                                   ~PIl-teaher ratio  -plar, d uecucdary - Tou1 otodrut  worolled In
rouac   rueh_ ac  (percent) - lotol - annual groach raten of itota  nid-                       prioary and neroodory 1-orlt dividod by onshers of ceachera In the c r-
popouuoofor 191-hO, l9tO-70, and 1970-81.                                                . eepoodin  le-1l.
Ioaaco    ruoRhlae (peto-t    .,- rhe  - dAoual gruth rau-  of urhuo                             Adult I1  ....v note (prcentt  - Literue odo1lt  (abl  to read ud nilce) a
popultosfo   00h,    1-0  ad 10007-I.aproogefco   Iudulc popuIlaIo  noed 10 yeorolad over
Crude lc.     ae(a  houd  - ,nnal lve birthser lbouh und of old-
yerpopuaIoni.; 19bO, 1000,..ad l9ll data.                                                   EONSU0P!110
Cende leach laer(er huad  - Ahna  Onta  e  chounud of oid-y-u                                      P-noge  Cas opr IluOO   ouato)-Paunooger cars  -poriue .utor
pupolaftln; 1960, 1900, and lO9I data,                                                             crt  . teaia  tent cha  eIgh  pernuoI;  -nludet ushula-oe, hesues aod
Iroso  enodctolae-Anerage  oobrro  dubI                    raasolll lear Ic                          militory nohiles-
he    emtrerdoctioe p-riud  1 sIr.  _yer_leoe   prnet age-pecIfIc                         ladle Oolver  (pe  tho...nod  ,porlaln) - All typer  of r-cinaro  for radio
Oneltlity rates;  -sualy flo-year .. avragren .ding tn 1960, i970, and                             broadcato  ogona  pblc  e  thu_ond of populaclu; enclude.no
of hirth-cootroI d-eloes  nederI ntPic_ of taia  fml'y plniog.                                     covrlnuolue   licening.
Program                                                                                          YE'  ..eceloers Irerchon..ond population) - Tgraceloer. for he-duaIt to
yasily Pla..nIog-Esoes (parceo  of a.rriad sue-) -iPorevtage of  -arned                               owoeralpht  per oh.,to   ynylpstloo1;t enc 1toorsoclornnd Tfrecoloer
ononofoil-bale   ue(I-h   easi  ho cu  hlth--uotro  deoli-  to                                lnooro   vdI   orsho  regiu ion of To Ie nnIn  ffect
all n_rred      - N0e  i   on   g  fap-hup-priclno     Sottont   ouuio                                                                                   hout thraerage
FOOl uSD NUTRITION                                                                                     clclalrolf'dllyoorlirrotnu  uo"  dofinwo Iu ayridlo
lhd-o of rood yrodu-toe rer Caytos ll969-71=100l - InOd- of p-ro-ytu                                 yuhli-ut-o -e-cd prliaril yptu ood.                gevro.nut    1  u  cotuloered
annul production   f all food cuoodices   prdctioI e_ldas sed sold                                 to he 'daly" if ilappearo  at lean  four ttnu    ueh
feed aod Is norelna   erbas   Cosuod~it lt-on  peari..y goods (e.g.                              Cinen   cA,-1 Altt-dace yer Capita per  na-Ouse-d onthe ousher of
eugerIaeisedo   ualo o redilaocntn nurenu(eg                                                        liokos sold during  rho year, inolodlog ada.i-son   c  drive-In otnesas ond
cuff- esad Isaor        lodad)      .. Aggegte prduction of -ooh onu..r  is Ioi1.cls
based no nonlocal. aeroge producr. prIor seights; 1961-b5, 1000, acd 1981
data                                                                                           LAuOR FERCE
Per capita supply of canre torrte      oc  f requireseota) I- Computed fr..                        Tocol LIhor Porte (chousoodo) - EIc....mlclly  -ttlo   peroo, ltiudlo1  -rod
dy    nilubll:uyle'     opra.onsi  production, loport  lespploteo`alue    leiouun   onron                                                              nre    r   o
euportu, utd cheneo in stock.  Set sp1w   wuloe               a  fe, sed,cmarbe   00,10   e  tl   aa
qoutitiesus-d Isfod processIng, and lon   in.  ditrbtn,Feal   rercot) F fosule lohor fort at Peretaeo  to tal labor furo.
lqirenotaero nlasedb  PAO based on phystologloal  -edt for noonal                                ug iculour  I rerool   - lbor foceI   homn,  oetr,to Io    e
acltilop asd h"ltlh c...ideringeoios.roaeta1 t-peraruro, bodyFegh                                    fi.ihog ao percentage of fotal lebor f.or; 1960, 1900 and 1901 dato.
agIo   e   Iocribucion of populacEec, and allooiog  10 peront fr    aneIuoy  prct)-Lbrforcet   Iig   osrcin   uoatro
ut bouehold Il.rel; 1961-b5, 1900 sod 1010 duta.                                                     and rlectrlclity, eate  and gas us pe r_oae of total labor force; 1060,
Pea osplea supply of poeo(g-ase per day) - Prugeo conen  of Per capita                                 1070 and 1901 dana.
net suplyt of.1 foper dspy.  Set supply ef food Is def,ined as, ah-o.                             arIcpation lute (P-ocoI-tta,eo  an    ...ol  -  arltptoo
qnureetufr  l  c ora  etablished by lIlA proie  u  snnn                                            rioityrao "rIupua uItcl,noe  ad femuln Ocur force a
all oace  of 60 grads of talPro tetn per day aod 20 grs  of onioal sod                            percentage  of t        .u.,sle sod feonda  pupolalt. of all a e  rsetiey
Pulseprotein, of obich 10 goaos shoold be acisul pro-lo   Th1ese                                   1060, 10070, and 19g1 data.  These are he..ed -c lIWn  poroicipwtinuraIeu
als darde are loser tban  hb.an of 75 geou of ltota  Protleic atd  23 grass                        Iolo  o   g-e    tocc  of the popoIlac-o, and long time trd.  A
of atten   proteonaoenerue fo. he onrld, proposed by rAO in ebe                            To__IaeIaefn    aioauocn
Te hird gorlpld. Fondturey;f19611-60~ 1900 and 1980  daa                                          tronono Ipehodeuy Ratio - Rstio of population uoder 10 aad h5 and  -erbo
PrcpIta prnIc sorI   fro  oi_          ad  _us  - Peoteto nupply of fond                          the otl laborfoce
derived frog anosad Pot... in grans par lay; 1961-k). 1900 and 1900
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCOME DIOSTIBUTION
Child(ae  1-A  Dealb Rlute (pr hnaad) -ana  detb                 -arc     ud OnPercetag  of: Privt l.oone. (bothbI to-ah eed hind) - Receoeid byprichen,S0
age groap 1-i yearn , torIdrno thib           gegou;feesotdenel ping                               percet  rchea10prntpurn 20pret_cors   Oprcet of
cuo_trles data deri-rd fine life  tublos; 1960, 1000 aad 1901 data.                                hu....bhldo,
IfALTH                                                                                             P0OVTYo  TOGET GROUOPS
017$  orecoocr  t lIm   (reas) -Anoraga oneher of peur.o of life  eaigTrfloue    nlae   r  neyappronat .n....r.. of por,rty le-wl, end
at-bth1 10,1900 ad 1981 daazitl stunpeuduo  coedrulcoton
Lolfe  Otrtaip  ae  protnouud I - annua  deaths of intaotu order one.. toimoduborcPnt rIcalne100Per capitol-ubnan)ua 
year of age pe,r thrsand  ive fbirths; 196t, 1000 and 1981 doca.                                     "I'llut  Povrt  Icose bowl in cha  ioon   level beluc ahich a  inin.l
opc... of pate  lcer (pecn   fpplto)-toa,orhn, atd rural -                                           cu Itritnl yly adYequate diet plneneta  eon-food egie                uin n-c
AMbver of people (total, urban, and  .rrl) eith reasonahble aocans to soa                           forabe
onteoPpy (irlocdes c.rand surfaceonrr  or unretd   utlt-uedbOwtu iot  ovri   oootoa   11pr   ota    urhbt and rurl
u_0o_teaoted eatr sc   oIo  from  protected brethons, apringa, and                                 bRaD  lelris- poverty boo-  lanai toon-t1hird of u_orug  Per topita
oaniter yoe_t1   a  perce'Iotar  iof th        I rpotive pouain.I   nperll..  Inte.n of the ocooty.  Irhan lerel In derlu-d Pro   the ruel1
urban area    public fon-eni  or otandpnst Iorated  out sur  the  200 netern                       level wIth adjouuent fur  Gh-ge  coa  of IiioOng In uh_nr_..
frnahoeny he~  cu dred anI elog otchlc reunneable uceoof tha Iuiae   Pov..uito  elosAbsolute Pover ty Icos  loot1 (percent) -l.
bousa.  Incura  areos roanoolea.c.o ..oId isply thect lb  hs_i fe or                     eAral-Poret ofpoultio  (urban  ond  _rural)  h. are  ~'b-l ore
aaseregha hoaehold du otlhanetospn-dudIFpootoaellof                                               rM
doe day iv rethIng the feally'. eato nendo.
Alle_sotore--  DioPos..l (rerce or  Ipplain ofI,  rhan  cod
rural -  uN-her of yeople (tta, rho, and trural  unread' heureI
d      Iptl  nprcoae  of their reopeotine po lictus.  frE.-ta diopoto.
nap  'Inld   the collectionh Iae.rodd dIsoal  ld o  odbn  treu.twet, of                                                                  funoonic cod Social Ouu  ioluoI
ho.Ya.encet  a      - ese-aaonbye-ater-bnrneay--as   or th.eotof pie                                                               EcoomI     oettooProjct= nstp--ow
print. esau  ainlar lotllton                                                                                                                            ly 1983



27   -                         ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981/82 1,                           (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.    %           1977/78-1981/82    1977/78-1981/82
GDP at Market Prices           8,894.4   100.0                 8.0                 0.1
Gross Domestic Investment    1,051.7    11.8                  11.4                 4.4
Gross National Saving           -248.6    -2.8              - 2.6                -24.8
Current Account Balance       -1,300.2   -14.6              -30.6                -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS            787.8      8.9             - 2.7                   1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          2,246.3    25.3                 9.8                11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981/82
Value Added 2/      Labor Force 3/          V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln.    %        Mln.        Z         US$   % (of average)
Agriculture       2,989    36.5        3.93      70.3         760        52.0
Industry          1,139    13.9        0.40       7.2      2,840       194.5
Services          4,052    49.5        1.26      22.5      3,210       220.0
Total        8,180   100.0       5.59    100.0        1,460       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1981/82
(LSd. Mln.)       % of GDP
Current Receipts                   890               12.3
Current Expenditure                975               13.5
Current Surplus                   - 84              - 1.2
Capital Expenditures 5/            512                7.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                77/78   78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government    593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                         490.8   652.9       814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)          17.0    25.6        25.9     28.1      24.9
Bank Credit to Central Government        27.4    54.0        23.8     23.7      13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                       13.5    33.0       24.7      37.4      39.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average effective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Bank staff estimates.
2/ The last year of officially published national accounts is 1977/78; the data
presented here are the Government's own estimates presented in Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development; 1982/83-1984/85.
3/ Total labor force (est.); unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal
occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their
first job.
4/ At market prices.
5/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other
public entities).
EA2DB
November 10, 1983



SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
(Millions US$)
US$ Mln.          X
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798       801         788
Imports Goods, NFS              1,321      1,564      1,827      2,246       Cotton                     179.1          35.9
Resource Gap                    - 622      - 765    -1,026    -1,458         Sorghum                     70.2          14.0
Interest, MLT Debt (net)         - 72       - 60       - 79      - 184       Groundnuts                  47.1           9.4
Other Factor Paynents (net)    - 69         - 59       - 88      - 192       Gum Arabic                  41.5           8.3
Private Transfers                  240        209       305        350       Sesame                      40.7           8.1
Current Balance                 - 451      - 615      - 809    -1,300        Other                       91.0          18.2
Public Grants                       17         84       122        174              Total               477.0         100.0
Direct Investment                 --           10        20         70
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618       615        540        420       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Public MLT Loans, amort.            30         42        52         97
Total Public Net                   588        573       488        322                                              US$ Mln.
Net Credit, IMF                     58        115        165       --
Capital Flows (incl. errors                                                  Public Debt, DOD, MLT                  5.096.0 1/
and omissions)               - 160      - 113       - 52        499
Change in Net Reserves                                                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82
(- indicates increase)        - 50       - 54         66        235                                                   X
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             18.3                           X
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annual Averages             End Period
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82,       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
Official:                                                                                                          IBRD      IDA
LSd 1 - US$        2.000/1.250  1.250/1.111    1.111         0.769
Effective:                                                                   Outstanding and Disbursed             46.8    339.6
LSd 1 - US$             1.580         1.230       1.111      0.769        Uiidisbursed                           2.6    259.0
Free Market:                                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         49.4    598.6
LSd 1 = US$              ---           ---        0.769      0.556
Not available.
1/  Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitary debt) is, however,
estimated to US$7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
November 10, 1983



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                     Undis-
Credit No.      Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Bank    IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and twelve Credits fully disbursed:          127.2   144.9
Credit 364-1   1975   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                 20.0    0.5
Credit 547      1975   Sudan      Education II                     10.0    0.8
Credit 614      1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance              4.0    0.1
Credit 727      1977   Sudan)                                       8.0    0.0
Loan 1467T      1977   Sudan)    Railway IV               12.0              0.3
Credit 781      1978   Sudan      Port                             22.0    0.1
Credit 782      1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing              25.0   12.2
Credit 804      1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III           16.0    7.7
Credit 834      1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research            15.0    7.8
Credit 882      1979   Sudan      Highway II                       41.0    2.7
Credit 904      1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture           15.0    7.6
Credit 1000    1980   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program            65.0    3.4
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan       Third Power                      65.0   32.9
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan       New Halfa Rehabilitation         40.0   33.9
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.            32.0   25.4
Credit 1119 /1 1981   Sudan       White Nile Pump Rehab.           35.0   27.3
Credit 1153 /1 1981   Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance           6.0    4.5
Credit 1181 71 1981   Sudan       Western Savannah                 13.0    6.7
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan       Agricultural Services            18.0   l5.9
Credit 1233 71 1982   Sudan       Second Port                      25.0   14.7
Credit 1388 /1 1983   Sudan   **Gezira Rehabilitation              80.0   78.4
Credit 1389 /1 1983   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program II         50.0   49.0
Total                                         139.2   749.9  331.9
of which repaid                              93.4    11.5
Total now outstanding                          45.8   738.4
Amount sold                     5.8
of which repaid               5.8              -       -
Total held by Bank & IDA                        45.8   738.4
Total undisbursed                                0.3   331.9  332.2
/1 IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 6 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million and SDR 46.4 million respectively.)
** Not yet effective.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                  Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972            Textiles                                1.9    0.3      2.2
1976            Cotton Textile Mills                      8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.              11.0    1.2    12.2
1978            Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.           6.7    1.4      8.1
1980            Sudan Cement Company                       -      0.2     0.2
1982           White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.               -      0.3     0.3
Total gross commitments                  28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                    6.7    0.5      7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC        21.6    4.2    25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                  1.1    0.4      1.5



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 1
S U D A N
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:    Seven months
(b)  Preparation by:                     Government/UNESCO
(c) Initial Discussions with
Association:                        October, 1982
(d)  First Bank Mission:                 October, 1982
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:        May, 1983
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         January 25, 1984
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    July 31, 1984
fI. Special Bank Implementation Actions
A PPF advance to accelerate project preparation was granted on
January 13, 1984.
III. Conditions of Effectiveness
Conditions of Effectiveness, additional to those provided for in the
General Conditions would be: a) opening of the Special Accounts and
Project Advance Accounts (including deposit of LS 70,000), b)
appointment of representatives from Government departments and
agencies to coordinate project execution (para 72) and c) cross
effectiveness provisions between the IDA Credit Agreement and the
Special Fund Credit Agreement.
IV. Condition of Disbursement
Satisfactory completion of the pre-investment study is a condition of
disbursement for undertaking the pilot scheme (para. 67).
V. Special Conditions
(a) Preparation of a plan to enable achievement of an enrollment
target of 1,400 day time students in diploma courses at the
College of Engineering at the Khartoum Polytechnic by mid 1988,
and implementation of the plan (para. 55).
(b) Filling key positions in PIU with staff having qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 72).
(c) Appointment of an experienced organization, agency or consulting
firm by September 1, 1984, to assist in project execution
(para. 72).






[BRD 17348
25'                                        3C.                                        35~                       4U00T 1933
SUDAN                                               ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF EGYPT 
EDUCATION1!
PROJECT EOFTR                                                                                                            E
20.          100           200 MILES                                                                                                                        2'
Station, '10 10                      Port Sedlan
NO 0R TH  RNA                                                SEA
Ka,ina     "
N/I 
Al,
NORTHERN
_j                 AR  J0,NRTER                                               ,,&rmn IU   HRTO
15'                                                              A   0  ATHE.3       V                                                                    1<'
KO R DO FAN /VdadI,   A
C'El Fosher                                                Orn,Se~rE  eoe
El Obe,d                 KosITE
u              ~~~~~ZOI,,geI                                                              ,Ksi  
0 D11,mgNI                                    E
SOUTHERN;   SOUTHERN                                                           1EDraI(
DA RFUR                    Babo,Isa   KOKadog ANl
CENTRAL                         -                                                                  /    E                           i-"0
AFRICAN                     M7,0alCkal                                                                            4
REPUBLIC  (                                                                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Z L E   Polylechn,c Khorour,,
REPUBLIC  ~     ~      ~      B HR           EL     ~    -'\                            7~                 tVacctional Trainig Centers
-~~~~~ wr,o a.,.,i.r.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teacher Tra,i,ing rnstitutes
"hr wO'ia&"s                                                       "7,,?>                o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected Towns
rH Z                              X          N      /E/         N\        -  -Provincial Bourdories
5' 0, iAh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hhO                                                                   .              nl~~~~~JNG     e-natianol Baurndor.es
BUHE-YRA T 
~~~'   '\.                     0~~~~~~~~~Rurrbek 
L I BYA     ARAB                                                BoYAN~\Br
- EP, OF               O ATA
-SALT ARABIA                             ST R
EQUA TOR/A                              5 A STERN                        K5
C HAD                                                            0 -                    uc OE7 UA  TORIA
<ANEN RAL'>        IE
AFRICAN REP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~N                                                               -
ZArG    RE       UADCNAf 7                                                    0                  G\2N5D



