Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4747-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
February 10, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUKREENCY AND EQUIVALENT U'NITS
Sucanese Pound (LS)                   ll0 piastre
l,S  1.()                   =         US*G.77
Us$ 1.00                              LS 1.3u (Jantuary - 19-4)
Wleights and rieasures
Feddan (fr,)                                       0,42 hectare (ha)
kantar (seed cotton)                =               143 kiloaram (k,g)
Kilowatt (Ew)                                       1.36 horsepower (hp)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOL      -   Departirent of Labor
ESR     -   Education Sector Review
OtTSS    -   high Technical Secondary School
IREC    -   Integrated Rural Education Center
IDA-SFK -    11DA Special Fundl Resources
LiES    -   ttodules of Em`nployable Skills
LHOE     -   Ninistry of Education and Guidance
I 1)L    -    MIlinistry of Labor
1LTC     -   tiultiservice Training Center
PIU     -   Project Imnplementation Unit
PEPF    -   Project Preparation Facility
TTI      -   Teacher Training Institute
UPE      -   Universal Primiary Education
VATC    -   Vocational Artisan Training Center
VTB      -   Vocational Training 3ranch
VTC      -   Vocational Training Center
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TKE SIJDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDANI
TABLE OF CONTENTS                        Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                               (i)
BASIC DATA                                                               (iii)
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
- Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting .1
- Development Objectives and Strategies ........................   1
- Manpower Situation and Needs.                                       2
II.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
- Overview.                                                           4
- Administration and Planning.                                        5
- Training of Technical Manpower.                                     5
- Financing of Education.                                             9
- Government Policies for Education .....................            10
III.   BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN EDUCATION
- Role of the Bank Group in Education and Training in Sudan ....   11
- Bank Group Strategy for Future Lending in the Sector .... .....  12
- Coordination with Donor Agencies .............................  13
IV.   THE PROJECT
- Objectives .    ..................................................   13
- Project Components .........      ..................................   14
- Khartoum Polytechnic .14
-  Vocational Training Centers .15
-  Teacher Training Institutes .15
-  Institutional Support.                                            16
-    Pre-Investment Study and Pilot Scheme .17
- Summary of Technical Assistance ..............................   17
- Female Participation in the Education and Training Sector ....   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Sudan
in May, 1983. The mission consisted of Mr. M. Cecere (Agricultural Educator,
Mission Leader), Mrs. N. Shields (Economist), Mr. A. Stam (Senior Architect),
Mr. U. Seier (Specialist in Vocational Education, Consultant), and Mr. B.
Thorden (Specialist in Technical Education, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                              Page No.
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLANI
-  Project  Cost   ................................................  19
-  Financial  Plan   ..............................................  21
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT & AUDITING
-  Implementation   ..............................................   21
-  Procurement   .................................................   23
-  Disbursement   ................................................   24
-  Auditing   ....................................................   25
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................      25
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................      26
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Tables and Charts
TABLE 1.  Official Number of Emigrants to Oil Countries, 1974/78-1981/82
2. Qualified Manpower Requirements, 1976/77-1982/83
3. Comparative Education Indicators
4. College of Engineering, Enrollment, Present and Proposed
5. College of Engineering, Student Teacher Ratio
6.  Vocational Training Centers.  Summary of Enrollment, Output,
Instructors, 1982/83-1989
7. MOE Expenditures (1980/81)
8. Expenditures on higher Education, 1980/81-1982/83
9. Summary of VTCs Expenditure, 1982/83
10. Summary of Technical Assistance
11. Summary Account by Project Component
12. Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
13. Schedule of Disbursement
CHART 1.  Structure cf the Formal Education System
2. Organization of the Ministry of Eduction & Guidance
3. Organization of Department of Labor
4. Organization of the National Council for Hligher Education
5. Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 3. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP IBRD No. 17348



(i)
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER                    The Democratic Republic of Sudan
AMOUNT                      SDR  14.8 million (USU5.4 million IDA)
(US$10.0 million IDA-SFR)
TERMS                       Standard
Projection Description
Objective:   This rehabilitation project would assist the Government
in (a) meeting critical needs for trained manpower by:
(i) increasing the output and improving the quality of
vocational and post-secondary technical training
institutions; (ii) expanding the training of technical
instructors; and (iii) improving education management and the
strengthening of education planning; and (b) improving primary
and adult education in rural areas by developing new programs
and teacher training.
Components:  The project would include rehabilitation of (a) workshops
and laboratories of the College of Engineering at the Khartoum
Polytechnic and (b) six Vocational Training Centers, through
provisions for equipment; textbooks, and curricula/programs
development. Technical assistance and fellowships, would be
included to assist in the above and for institutional support
to (a) two teacher training institutes for program evaluation
and development and teacher training; b) the Department of
Labor of the Ministry of Labor and the Department of Planning
of the Ministry of Education and Guidance to strengthen their
management, planning and training capacities; and (c) for a
pre-investment study to review and evaluate the programs and
objectives of the 15 Higher Technical Secondary Schools and 8
Vocational Artisan Training Centers.
Benefits:    The project would include expansion and improvement of
the training of (a) 1,400 technicians with an output of 450
p.a. in Diploma courses; (b) 250 instructors p.a. for the
vocational training centers which will have a total enrollment
of about 7,000; and (c) improved educational services in rural
areas.
Risks:       No major risk anticipated.



(ii)
US$ Millions
PROJECT COMPONENTS                      Local      Foreign      Total
1.   Khartoum Polytechnic                0.50        4.26        4.76
2.   Vocational Training Centers         1.23        3.89        5.12
3.   Teacher Training Institutes         0.02        1.28        1.30
4.   Institutional Support               0.01        0.74        0.75
5.   Pre-Investment Study &              0.04        0.96        1.00
Pilot Scheme
6.   Project Administration              0.45        0.55        1.00
Base Cost (January 1984)
Total (1-6)                   2.25        11.68      13.93 1/
7.   Contingencies
Physical (10%)                     0.22         1.17        1.39
Price (22%)                        0.83        2.50        3.33
Total (7)                      1.05        3.67        4.72
Total Project Cost
(1-7)                          3.30       15.35       18.65
of which taxes                 0.53         -          0.53
FINANCING PLAN
Government                         3.2          -          3.2
IDA-SFR                              -        10.0        10.0
IDA                                 -          5.4         5.4
Total                              3.2        15.4        18.6
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
IDA FY                         1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                             2.2     4.2      5.6      3.4
Cumulative                        2.2      6.4    12.0    15.4
APPRAISAL REPORT:
Report No.4747-SU, Dated February 10, 1984
MAP: IBRD No. 17348
1/ Includes US$110,000 PPF Advance



(iii)
SUDAN
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                             2,505,800 Km2
Population (1981)                                19.2 million
Annual Population Growth Rate (1970-198U)         3.1%
GNP per Capita (1981)                            US$380
Education
School Year                                     July-March
Adult Literacy Rate (1982)                       32%
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1982):
Primary Education (7-12 age group)          51%
Secondary Education (13-18 age group)    16%
Ministry of Education Expenditures on Education
as Percentage of Total Government Expenditures
(1980/81)
Capital                                      2.1%
Recurrent                                   22.1%
Total                                       17.0%
as a Percentage of GNP                       3.6%






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS.
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting.
1.01      The Democratic Republic of Sudan with an area of 2.5 million km2
and a population of about 19.2 million in 1981 is a country of relatively
low population density (7.5 persons per km2). However, this very low
man/land ratio disguises the fact that much of the country is desert or
semi-desert and 50% of the population is concentrated on 15% of the land.
During the decade 1970-'80, the population has been growing at an estimated
rate of about 3.1% per annum, a very high rate by world standards although
below the average for Africa. At this rate of growth, the population would
reach 34 million by the year 2,000. A population census has just been
completed and is being processed. GNP per capita in 1981 was estimated at
US$380. Health and nutritional standards are slightly below the average
for countries of similar per capita income. Infant mortality rate averages
about 124 per 1,000 (although there are regional differences). In 1980,
life expectancy at birth averaged 46 years compared for example to 52 years
for Tanzania.
Development Objectives and Strategies.
1a02      A major objective of the Government has been to integrate its
different ethnic groups into one nation following 17 years of civil strife
which ended in 1975. The Government has pursued two principal long term
socio-economic objectives: (a) accelerating national economic growth; and
(b) promoting a more equitable pattern of regional development. The
Government launched a Six Year Plan (1976/77-1982/83) which emphasized
large scale investments in infrastructure, agriculture and industry. From
the onset, implementation of the plan was faced with many problems due to,
inter alia, shortage of skilled manpower in all sectors which hindered the
success of the new investments.
1.03      Subsequently, a series of three years rolling plans replaced the
Six Year Plan. More recently, the Government has prepared a Recovery
Program for the period 1982/83-1984/85, with the following major
development objectives: (a) rehabilitation of productive capacity; (b)
increased capacity utilization and productivity; (c) restoration of the
trade balance through export growth and import substitution; (d) emphasis
on infrastructure to support production; (e) increased private sector
participation; and (f) completion of economically sound on-going
development projects.
1.04       Recent Economic Development and Prospects.  Expansion of the
Sudanese economy in the past few years has been sluggish and has lagged
behind population growth. Thus, between 1977/78 and 1981/82, GDP grew in



-2 -
real terms at an average rate of 2% per year while population is estimated
to have increased at about 3% per year. This slow growth of GDP has been
accompanied by high fiscal deficits, and rapidly increasing balance of
payment deficits and related external public debt. Debt service payments
falling due in the short and medium run are becoming a major test on the
country's ability to pay.
1.05      Aware of the above mentioned ensuing difficulties, the Government
in the past two years has taken a series of measures conducive to increase
export production and to reduce the budgetary deficit. These include,
inter alia, exchange rate and domestic price adjustment geared to provide
incentives to exporters and, change on the basis for the assessment of
import duties and improvement in tax collection geared to enhancing fiscal
revenues. Furthermore, the Government prepared a sound economic recovery
program, covering the period 1982/83-1984/85, which includes the most
comprehensive statement of economic policy in recent years. Future
economic progress will depend on the success in the implementation of the
recovery program, and at the same time, on the country's ability to attract
substantial amounts of external assistance on concessionary terms.
Manpower Situation and Needs
1.06      Labor Market.  A typology of urban labor market in Sudan would
include the following sectors: civil service and public sector
corporations and entities, organized private sector and the informal
unorganized private sector. Within each of these sectors, there would be
segmentation primarily into groups such as professionals, skilled,
semi-skilled workers, and unskilled workers. Each of these sectors
operates in relation to one another, and are affected by both the
international labor market which attracts Sudanese skilled labor and the
domestic labor market since there exists considerable immigration by the
rural populations to the cities. The relative size of these sectors is not
known. However, some broad indications can be given. Approximately 25% of
the urban labor force is employed in the public sector (excluding the
military) and the share of the organized private sector is even smaller.
The majority of the urban labor force is in the informal sector.
1.07      Unlike many developing countries, Sudan's unemployment levels are
low. However, some unemployment and disguised unemployment exist
especially among low skill levels in urban areas and, on a seasonal basis,
in rural areas. A key constraint to capacity utilization in Sudanese
industry is the shortage of skilled workers and technicians. This is
mainly due to a combination of an educational and training system which is
underutilized (both staff and existing facilities), a lack of trained
teachers and a high demand in neighboring oil producing countries for
technicians and skilled labor which caused a massive emigration of trained
Sudanese. The manpower problem in Sudan has two major effects. First, the
shortages of technicians and skilled manpower have contributed to major
delays in the implementation of the country's investment programs. Many of
the development projects are not completed; this in turn has contributed
directly to the country's current debt service problem. Secondly, even
completed industrial projects which were initially able to hire the staff



- 3 -
required for full capacity operation have been unable to retain them.
Recruiters from oil producing Arab Gulf States have, for example, hired the
staff of entire sections or factories.  Annex 1, T-1 gives the numbers of
workers by occupation who left officially since 1974. Of the 53,000 who
departed officially, about 10% were technicians and 38% were skilled
workers. Furthermore, between 1978 and March 1981, over 8,000 civil
servants abandoned their posts to emigrate to the Arab Gulf States.  Of
this number about 20% were technicians. The DOL estimates that those who
leave officially represent a small fraction of the total number of
emigrants. However, it is equally estimated that many return to start
various family business.
1.08      Estimate of Manpower Shortages.  Estimates of manpower supply and
demand in selected skills prepared during the Six Year Development Plan
(Annex 1, T-2) show that average deficits represent 40% of its estimated
demand of professionals, 57% of technicians, 54% of technical assistants
and 65% of skilled labor. The manpower requirements in the Six Year Plan
were based on the assumption of 7.5% average annual growth rate of the
economy throughout the Plan period, which was not realized. It is clear
that a slower economic growth would reduce the demand for qualified
manpower. On the other hand, the projections of the Six Year Development
Plan did not take into account the effect of emigration of qualified
manpower since at the time of preparation of the plan it was not a major
factor.
1.09      In terms of existing stock of technicians and skilled manpower,
and its contribution to productivity, the scale of emigration is very
significant. Despite the lack of detailed surveys of existing vacancies,
the shortages of skilled labor have been severe. The stock of technicians,
assistant technicians and skilled labor in 1976/77 was 518,000. Between
1977/78 and 1981/82, there was an estimated addition to the stock of about
35,000 from training institutes within the country. During the same
period, about 19,500 persons from this category emigrated. This number
represents approximately 56% of the projected addition to stock or 3.8% of
the stock in 1977/78. As experienced workers leave Sudan, they have tended
to be replaced by less skilled labor. Withdrawal of technical and
managerial talent has also disrupted production and thus further lowered
productivity.
1.10      The Recovery Program expects a modest GDP growth rate in real
terms of 3.5% per annum over the period 1982/83 to 1984/85.  It is
not possible however, to give quantified estimates of future manpower
shortages. A major manpower study is to be undertaken by the Bank Group
and is scheduled to be completed in 1984 (Para. 3.04). However, it is
generally recognized that the scarcity of qualified manpower will continue
to be a pressing problem for the Sudan and development is severely
constrained by an insufficient output of the skills required for
development. The inability to compete with wages in the Arab Gulf States
will make emigration a continued source of concern.  The Proposed Third
Education project would assist in alleviating, inter alia, the shortages of
engineering technicians and skilled and semi-skilled personnel.



- 4 -
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM1
Overview
2.01      The formal system of education in Sudan consists of a six-year
primary school cycle, intermediate and high secondary cycles of three years
and post secondary education ranging from one to six years (Annex 1, C-1).
Technical education in industrial technology, agriculture, commerce, home
economics and teacher training is offered at the upper seconday level for a
duration of four years. Higher education is provided by three national
state funded universities (Khartoum, Gezira, and Juba), a private women's
college, a state funded Institute of Technical Colleges, a large branch of
Cairo University primarily for part-time studies, and the Islamic
University. Parallel to the official school system there are Koranic
schools, usually in the Northern Sudan; "Parents" schools in the South;
non-formal training institutions for school leavers and adults; and a
national literacy campaign.
2.02      Despite the progress made in many areas such as literacy and
technical education, the education system continues to suffer from
inadequate facilities, lack of trained teachers, and financial
constraints. In 1981/82, primary school enrollment was about 51% of the
age group (Annex 1, T-3). Secondary school enrollment was about 23% at the
intermediate level and about 11% at the upper level. In general, the
system has not responded to the needs of the economy: at the upper
secondary level, as noted in the following table, academic schools enroll
about 80% of the students while commercial schools enroll about 8/. and
technical (industrial) schools enroll about 5% of the total. Also in the
field of vocational training--post intermediate, the output of Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs) is below potential and falls short of skilled labor
needs (paras. 1.07-1.08).
Enrollment in Upper Seconday Schools
(1981/82)
No. of
Subjects                      Students        % of Total
Academic                      89,000            80
Technical
Commercial                  9,265              8
Industrial                  5,670              5
Agriculture                  2,210             2
Home Economics                 590             1
Sub-Total                17,735             16
Teacher Training               4,000             4
Grand Total                  110,735           100



2.03      At the post-secondary level, despite enrollment increases in
recent years, the ratio of technical graduates to graduates in the
humanities remains very low. The number of technicians (diploma holders)
trained at technical colleges is inadequate to meet the requirements of the
economy, and represents a low 1:1 ratio to engineering professionals
(degree holders), while the economy requires a technician professional
ratio of about 3:1.
Administration and Planning
2.04      Following a national policy of decentralization, the Regions
have administrative, financial and academic control over primary,
intermediate, academic secondary, adult and non-formal education. The
Ministry of Education and Guidance (MOE) (Annex 1, C-2) is still
responsible for technical secondary education, teacher training, post
secondary education, planning of education and the administration of
examinations. Other ministries such as Ministries of Agriculture, Health,
Labor, Public Services, etc., provide an important contribution to the
training of specialized manpower.
2.05      Educational planning is carried out by the Department of Planning
and Strategy of MOE. This unit traditionally has been mainly engaged with
statistical work, and only recently the MOE has established an Economics of
Education Division within the Department. Following regionalization
policy, this Division will also be responsible for in-house training of
regional staff in data collection and processing (para. 4.13).
Training of Technical Manpower
2.06      Technician Training.  The Khartoum Polytechnic, College of
Engineering and Scientific Studies trains technicians in three year Diploma
courses in the following areas: Architecture, Civil Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Laboratory
Technology, Textile Engineering and Surveying. The enrollment at the
College for the last few years has been about 700 p.a. in day-time courses,
(Annex 1, T-4), and the output about 240 graduates per year. In addition,
the college operates evening courses in selected trades. The Mechanical
Engineering College in Atbara also trains technicians in Mechanical
Engineering, with a total enrollment of about 100 students. The Khartoum
Polytechnic was established in 1975 by a Constitutional Act and is an
amalgamation of Higher Technical Institutes, some of which had existed from
as early as 1950. It enjoys the same degree of autonomy given to the
Sudanese National Universities. A link between the Khartoum Polytechnic
and the North East Wales Institute was recently established. Revision of
the curricula and upgrading of teaching staff followed. However, essential
practical training needs to be improved requiring, inter alia, relevant
workshop and laboratory equipment. The Khartoum Polytechnic is the only
institution which has the potential to produce middle-level technicians in
the numbers required by the economy. About 80% of graduates enter the
public sector. The remainder find jobs in the private sector, and this is
most prevalent among architecture graduates. Data available on emigration
of trained technicians are scarce. However it is a common knowledge that a
large number emigrate after a few years of work experience.



- 6 -
2.07      Vocational Training.  Institutions administering vocational/
technical training in the Sudan are: (a) the DOL of the Ministry of Labor,
Khartoum, operating currently five VTCs in the North; (b) the DOL of the
Regional Directorates of Public Service and Manpower, operating three VTCs
in the South; (c) the MOE with eight Vocational Artisan Training Centres
(VATCs) and fifty High Technical Secondary Schools (HTSS) (industrial,
commercial and agricultural). Other organizations such as the Mlinistries
of Defense, Agriculture, Railways, Regional Governments, and the private
sector, carry out training of various forms. The five VTCs in the North
-- Khartoum I, Khartoum II, P. Sudan, Wad Medani, Kosti; and three in the
South -- Juba (Multiservice Training Center, MlTC), Wau, and H4alaka, train
skilled workers in areas such as metalwork, electricity, automotive,
agro-mechanics, building trades and air conditioning, etc. They follow an
apprenticeship training program of three years duration of which the first
two at the training center and the third year in industry. Working on a
two shift basis, the VTCs have an enrollment capacity of about 3,200. Most
of the VTCs have been established with the assistance of international
donor agencies and their curricula reflect the training aspects normally
found in the respective donor's country of origin.
Issues in Technician Training.
2.08      A full scale manpower survey has not been undertaken since the
formulation of the Six Year Plan of 1976. Hlowever it is clear that demand
remains substantially above the current supply of technicians. The
allocation of labor within the Sudanese public sector is inefficient with
evidence of overstaffing in some areas and lack of qualified manpower in
others. This and other imbalances are due in part to inadequate training
programs.
2.09      Curricula adopted by the College of Engineering have concentrated
more on theoretical and academic work than on practical work due in part
not only to varying types of equipment but also to the lack of appropriate
equipment. Equipment used for practical training have been obtained over a
period of years from any available source, resulting in a very unequal
standard of equipment for the different workshops and laboratories.
Consequently, practical training is carried out more in accordance with the
type of equipment available than with the various curricula designed to
meet the occupational requirements of each specialty.  Also the traditional
method of lecturing is predominant. Teaching materials in workshops and
laboratories are also inapproriate and in short supply.
2.10      The Student Teacher Ratio at the College of Engineering is a too
low 4:1 (Annex 1, T-5) for an economic and efficient level of teaching.
This is due to a Government policy of job granting, resulting in
overstaffing, aggravated by low enrollments (para. 4.02).
2.11      Utilization of classrooms, drawing rooms, workshops and
laboratories is about 50% of capacity which is also a reflection of the
lack of adequately trained teaching staff. Reasons include limited and
outdated equipment; inappropriate timetables; a biased distribution of
available funds by the Higher Education Grants Committee in favor of the
Universities.  The College of Engineering for example receives less than 4%
of total funds for higher education, which results in a per student



- 7 -
allocation equal to about 65% that of Universities in general, much lower
if only non-academic faculties are considered (para. 2.21).
Issues in Vocational Training.
2.12      Problems in vocational training include:  (a) the need to achieve
a rapid expansion of vocational training to meet critical manpower
shortages; and (b) maximizing job relevance of vocational training in view
of the job demand by new labor force entrants (e.g. school dropouts and
those who do not qualify for the next level of education). Related to the
above, the following issues exist:
2.13       Training Programs.  Four out of five VTCs in the Northern Region
have three-year apprenticeship training programs (two years in the center
and one year in industry). In most cases the programs are rigidly based on
the occupational profiles and the training curricula of industrial
countries who have in the past provided assistance to the training
institutions. Although the quality of the output is good, it is difficult
to justify the long duration of these courses given the limited resources
available for training in Sudar. and the widely expressed demand for
specialized but lower level skills, e.g. plumbers, electricians, automobile
mechanics, specific maintenance workers, carpenters, bricklayers, and
various other types of construction workers. An analysis of the skills
needed (para. 4.07 (c)-(d)), followed by the adoption of a more flexible
training approach would result in greatly increasing the VTCs output
(para. 1.07) (Annex 1-T, 6).
2.14      Entrance Requirement for VTCs is the successful completion of
intermediate education. This entrance level is unnecessarily high and is
a prerequisite not only for specialized but also the lower level skills
(paras 2.15 & 4.07). In 1980-81 it was estimated that about 64,000 of the
intermediate final year students became either drop-outs (49,000 failures)
or unsuccessful in securing a place in the next cycle of the secondary
school system (15,000). Furthermore, of 55,000 students at secondary level
26,000 failed and those who graduated, could not be placed in the next
cycle 1/.  In 1981 therefore, there were more than 100,000    school
drop-outs/leavers of whom many could have benefited from vocational
training programs in various fields, if lower entrance requirements were
established. (Para. 4.07c).
2.15       Lack of Coordination of training activities exists among
different Ministries and Agencies concerned, as to trades and number of
trainees to be trained each year, development and adoption of curricula,
training methods, standards, training of instructors, etc. (para.2.04).
1/ Ministry of Internal Affairs, Training Development to absorb School
Drop-outs. Khartoum, 1982.



-8-
Following the recent regionalization policy a new overall coordination
mechanism is under consideration, to include review of entrance
requirements policy (para. 4.07).
2.16      Lack of qualified instructors is a serious constraint.  There are
about 239 technical instructors training about 3,100 trainees per year
(Annex 1, T-6), resulting in an acceptable instructor/trainee ratio of
about 1:13.  However, the level of training and experience differ greatly
between instructors, and upgrading is necessary (para. 4.03). All VTCs
financed through various donors agencies had, as an integral part of the
establishment agreement, an instructor training program carried out both in
the donor agency's country and at the center. Although sufficient
instructors are produced in these programs, most leave for employment in
the Arab Gulf States.
2.17      Organizational Issues.  The DOL in Khartoum (Annex 1, C-3) is
administering the operation of five VTCs, two more are being planned and a
further four proposed. Under its Director and Deputy Director, a
Vocational Training Branch (VTB) has six sections, each headed by an
Assistant Director. Staffing of the VTB is inadequate for the heavy
workload.  The situation is aggravated by the lack of proper information on
exact training needs and by the lack of coordination (para. 2.15). The DOL
in Juba has a Training Section which is responsible for the administration
of vocational training, but the section is undermanned and under-trained.
Moreover the Southern Region is not affiliated to the National
Apprenticeship and Vocational Training Council. There is no co-ordination
of technical education, vocational training, youth centres, or public or
private training facilities (para. 2.15). As a result duplication of
efforts already exists among the limited training activities in the
country. At the same time, and although there is a considerable demand for
more vocational training in all trades, the training institutions are
seldom working at more than 50% capacity.  The main reason for this is the
lack of qualified instructors for the introduction of double shifts. At
present the centers under the DOL are limited to providing in-service
training only for the public sector.
2.18      Other Forms of Training of Low and Mtiddle Level Manpower.  The
MOE is administering 50 Hligh Technical Secondary Schools consisting of 31
commercial, 15 industrial, three agricultural and one girls school. The 15
industrial secondary schools, for boys only, are scattered throughout the
country. In 1981/82, about 956 out of 1,415 candidates were successful in
the Certificate exams, a pass rate of about 70%.  Although only 13% of the
graduates enter post-secondary education, the curriculum of these technical
secondary schools is designed for further education.   Over 50% of the
curriculum is devoted to academic subjects and a substantial amount to
general studies that have little occupational relevance. The standard of
workshop equipment and consumable materials is inadequate.  Facilities need
substantial rehabilitation. The employability in technical fields of those
graduates not proceeding to the higher education level is therefore
limited.



2.19      Eight Vocational Artisan Training Centers (VATC) are being
administered by the Directorate of Technical Education of the MOE. These
VATCs were created to teach artisanal skills to ease the transition of
intermediate school leavers into the labor market, mainly self-employment.
The course content emphasizes traditional crafts, e.g. carpet weaving,
leather work, shoemaking, etc. Only recently the Government has decided to
convert these centers into industrial training facilities. However,
neither are the centers adequately equipped to carry out a meaningful
training nor are the contents of the syllabi designed to serve the purpose
intended. A review of the status of workshops and equipment, a revision of
the curricula, and a redefinition of the objectives of both the industrial
technical schools and the VATCs are needed (para. 4.14).
Financing of Education
2.20      It is estimated that the Central Government of Sudan bears over
90X of the financial burden of education in the country. Although the
direct administrative and financial responsibility for primary,
intermediate and academic secondary schools rests with the regional
governments, the bulk of their resources originate from transfers from the
Central Government and are included under the global budgetary item
"Transfer for Regional Rule". Also the main source of financing for
universities and technical institutes consists of grants included in the
Central Government budget. While no precise information on private
contributions to education is available, these are believed to be limited.
They take the form of some self-help primary school construction schemes
and fees charged by private aided and non-aided schools.2/
2.21      The most recent comprehensive data on Central Government
expenditure in education relate to 1980/81 (Annex I, T-7).3/It is
estimated that these expenditures represented 3.6% of GNP and 17% of the
Government's budget in that year. Recurrent expenditures in education were
estimated at about 22% of the recurrent budget and development expenditures
at about 2% of the development budget. The distribution of recurrent
expenditures among the various levels of education was as follows: 44%,
primary; 17X, intermediate; 11%, secondary academic and technical;
20%, higher and the remaining allocated to general administration and adult
education.
2/  Enrollments in private schools account for 14%' and 42% of total
enrollments in intermediate schools and in secondary commercial
schools, respectively.
3/ Data on regional governments for more recent years are either not
available or unreliable.



- 10 -
2.22      In 1980/81, the recurrent unit cost for primary education was a
high LS56 due to a fairly low student teacher ratio by African standards
(34:1). The recurrent unit cost at the intermediate secondary level at
LS114 was more in line with other countries in the Region. For both
academic and technical secondary schools, recurrent unit costs averaged
LS207 which is high for the academic schools, due to a low student teacher
ratio (16:1) and the high cost of boarding.
2.23      The financing of higher education (Annex I, T-8) is the
responsibility of the National Council for Higher Education (Annex 1, C-4).
The Council is responsible for four Universities, and nine post secondary
institutes, including the Khartoum Polytechnic. The average unit cost for
university students in 1981/82 was estimated at LS3,223, which is about
average for Eastern Africa. Average unit cost for Institutes of Higher
Education was estimated at about LS2,263 with the Polytechnic showing a
higher unit cost at LS2,647 because of a very low student/teacher ratio in
day-courses (4:1). The Polytechnic, however, also carries evening courses
for which the students pay a small fee (LS60 p.a.).
2.24      Traditionally students attending higher education institutions
have free tuition and boarding as well as pocket money. The Government has
been seriously concerned with the financial burden of higher education,
especially, at the university level. This subject was examined in a Bank
Group Sector Study4/ which recommended the adoption of various cost
savings and recovery measures. The Government has recently started
implementing some saving measures, e.g. excluding from boarding those
students coming from the Khartoum area, charging small fees to evening
students and phasing out student allowances. However, given the social and
political sensitivity of the matter, progress in the implementation of such
measures will be slow. The dialogue on the subject of cost savings,
established with the Government by the Bank Group as a result of, inter
alia, the Sector Study4/ is continuing.
2.25      Total expenditure of six VTCs in 1982/83 was estimated at about
LS1.9 million (Annex I, T-9). Average unit recurrent cost for the five
VTCs in the North was estimated at LS193 and for the Multiservice Training
Center (MTC) in Juba at LS50b or about 2.6 times that of the Northern
Centers. However, the latter institutions have no boarding students while
all students in Juba are boarders. Furthermore, evening students in the
North account for about 54% of the total student enrollment whereas in Juba
no evening students are enrolled.
Government Policies for Education
2.26      In 1977, the Government formulated an ambitious long-term policy
and development strategy in education, based on the comprehensive Education
Sector Review (ESR) which was carried out with assistance from UNESCO and
4/ IBRD Report No. 184954: The Costs of Higher Education,
December, 1977.



- 11 -
the Bank Group. In this, extending opportunities in basic general
education was given top priority, together with universalization of primary
education (UPE) in 15 years. Limiting access to lower secondary, to
eventually not more than 25% of primary school leavers, is another
long-term objective. At the upper secondary level, admission would be
limited to 50% of intermediate school leavers, who would be divided equally
between academic and technical/vocational streams, implying a significant
increase in the proportion of enrollments in HTSSs from its current share
of 10%, especially those for industrial technical education.
2.27      The Government's plans for achieving UPE in 15 years is an
extremely ambitious target requiring capital and recurrent financial
efforts well beyond the financial power of the Regions. Even with
assistance by the Central Government, the projected rate of expansion is
not expected to be achieved.
2.28      The Government's proposal to ensure that 50% of the upper
secondary entrants enroll in HTSS has not materialized, and also appears
difficult to achieve under the current circumstances. Industrial education
(engineering) has only increased slightly since 1977/78. Among the main
reasons is the practice of allocating students to secondary schools on the
basis of grade alone, giving no recognition to their aptitudes. As such,
technical schools obtain the lesser qualified students. In addition, as
most students aim to proceed to a university education, they find easier
and more convenient the shorter academic secondary cycle, which grants them
even a higher admission priority over the technical schools applicants.
2.29      At the post-secondary level, the Government has succeeded to some
extent in changing the ratio of arts based disciplines to those based on
science and technology. However, the output of technical personnel still
falls far short of requirements. In particular, the current annual output
of technicians from higher technical institutes is inadequate to meet the
great needs of the country for middle-level technical manpower, caused
mainly by the intense migration to the Arab Gulf States. This has forced
the Government to reconsider the education development strategy of the ESk,
not by questioning its validity, but by postponing the target dates until
more favorable circumstances prevail. Top priority for future action is
given therefore to: a) providing manpower most needed for the development
of the various sectors of the economy; and b) offsetting, though to a
limited extent, the emigration of trained and skilled manpower. Since b)
is extremely difficult to implement and could be counter productive as
regards foreign exchange remittances, Government gives first priority to
increasing substantially the output in technical education.
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN EDUCATION
Role of the Bank Group in Education and Training in Sudan
3.01      The Bank group has financed two education projects in Sudan.  The
First Education Project (Credit 122-SU, signed in 1972) provided US$8.5
million to improve and expand agricultural training, teacher training and
secondary education. A Project Performance Audit (No. 3429) was issued



- 12 -
on April 24, 1981. The project suffered considerable implementation
delays, mainly due to weakness in management and difficult country
soci-economic conditions. However, the project has expanded agricultural
training, teacher training and secondary education, and four years after
its completion, it is now showing success in achieving its educational
goals particularly in the training of agricultural technicians.
3.02      The Second Education Project (Credit 547-SU, signed in 1975)
provided US$10. million for establishing a system of Integrated Rural
Education Centers (IREC),5/ secondary schools, a primary teacher training
institute and expansion of a vocational training center. Implementation of
the second project has been comparatively more satisfactory. Delays in
implementation have occurred due to management weakness, shortages of
construction material, internal transportation problems to numerous remote
sites in both Northern and Southern Sudan and delay in timely provision of
local counterpart funds and more recently security problems in remote areas
of the South. However, following changes in the project management
structure, inter alia, and due to a more timely and adequate provision of
counterpart funds, implementation improved and the project was closed on
June 30, 1983. Construction work and finalization of accounts
however continue and are expected to be completed by March 1984, some 21
months beyond the original June 30, 1982, Credit closing date. The
project, although reduced in scope due to a cost overrun, is expected to
basically achieve its educational goals. Additional work is however
required to consolidate the IREC system, in particular for finalizing
integrated education programs, strengthening of teacher training and
evaluation. This is being addressed in the proposed Third Education
Project (Paras. 4.09 and 4.10).
3.03      The Bank Group's knowledge of Sudan's education sector has
increased considerably in the last six years not only through project work
but also through economic and sector analysis. The Second Education
Project assisted the Government to carry out a Comprehensive Education
Sector Review, (ESR) completed in 1977, which outlines a long-term
education policy. Bank Group staff have also completed a Education Sector
Memorandum (1977) and Study on "The Cost of Higher Education in Sudan"
(1978). More recently (1982), Bank Group staff carried out a study on
"Manpower Aspects of Sudanese Economic Development", summarizing labor
market shortages and manpower training aspects.
3.04      Overall the Bank Group's knowledge of the various sub-sectors and
financing and management of the education system is good. In order to
determine the main issues related with manpower needs and its utilization,
the Bank Group, as part of its FY84/85 sector work program, will undertake
a "Manpower Development Study" aiming at: assessing the situation of
demand and supply, identifying the bottlenecks to effective use of existing
manpower and establishing the link between the education and training
system and the labor market.
5/ Combined primary schools and centers for adult education training
located in areas most deprived of educational opportunities.



- 13 -
Bank Group Strategy for Future Lending in the Sector
3.05      In line with the recommendations provided in the ESR and
subsequent studies, the Bank Group lending strategy in the sector has two
complementing objectives: (a) improvement and selective expansion of
institutions for the training of skilled manpower; and (b) assisting in
redressing the existing inequities in the provision of education
opportunities. However, due to the present severe economic situation of
Sudan, the scarce resources available have to be devoted to those areas of
highest priority, i.e. to alleviate critical manpower shortages needed for
development of the Sudanese economy. The emphasis is therefore on meeting
critical manpower needs through rehabilitation of the existing physical
infrastructure and quality improvement. This can be achieved by assisting
existing educational institutions in better utilization of their physical
facilities, developing new curricula/programs and in general by improving
their management ability. Among all education and training sub-sectors,
particular attention will be devoted to those institutions providing
technical training, as the most serious shortages of manpower occur among
technicians ana skilled workers.
3.06      Coordination with Donor Agencies.  UNDP and other UN specialized
agencies such as ILO, who have in the past been very active in the
education sector are expected to continue to provide assistance but at a
reduced level due to financial contraints. USAID is providing assistance
to training in agriculture and rural development projects and assistance to
the basic and formal education system is limited to provision of printing
materials and school books. The Federal Republic of Germany has been
traditionally the most active in assisting in the field of vocational
training, particulary in provision of facilities, equipment, instructors,
and fellowships. It is likely to continue to provide assistance, though on
a limited basis, and confined to provision of volunteer instructors and
fellowships. UK has a three year assistance program (about £150,000) for
Atbara College of Mechanical Engineering (curriculum revision, classroom
teaching equipment, fellowships). Italy is assisting in training for
maintenance of agriculture irrigation of equipment. Belgium has recently
financed a technical secondary school and is currently assisting in its
operation. The African Development Bank is initiating plans for a
pre-investment study on education. Coordination of Bank Group activities
has been mainly carried out in Sudan in discussions with the various
agencies mentioned to ensure a coordinated approach and to prevent
duplication of efforts.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project is designed to: (a) assist in meeting
Sudan's most pressing needs for trained manpower by: (i) increasing the
output and improving the quality of vocational and post-secondary technical



- 14 -
training institutions; (ii) expanding the training of technical
instructors; and (iii) improving education management and strengthening of
education planning; and (b) improve primary and adult education in rural
areas by developing new programs and teacher training (Para. 3.02). These
objectives would be addressed as described below and as outlined in
Annex 2.
Project Components
Khartoum Polytechnic
4.02      Technician Training.  The proposed project includes provisions to
expand the output of the College of Engineering of the Khartoum
Polytechnic. This component would provide for an increase in enrollment of
700 students in day-time technician training courses which would double its
enrollment to 1,400 day-time students with an output of about 450
technicians p.a. in three year diploma programs. Evening students are
expected to also benefit from these proposed improvements.  This would be
accomplished basically by improved utilization of existing facilities and
staff and the introduction of a revised curriculum/program. All nine
Departments (Annex 1, T-4) of the College of Engineering would be involved
in the curricula/program development, requiring a consolidation of the
existing physical plant and including one new metrology laboratory and
rehabilitation of equipment for 27 existing workshops and laboratories.
New instructional equipment as required would be provided to replace a
mixture of dilapidated and inappropriate equipment which is deemed
essential for the quality improvement of practical training. The staff of
the Khartoum Polytechnic are to develop a satisfactory plan, for Bank Group
review by not later than July 31, 1985, showing enrollment increases at the
College, leading to full enrollment target of about 1,400 day-time students
in diploma courses by July 31, 1988. The Government has provided
assurances that the enrollment target of 1,400 day-time students in diploma
courses at the College of Engineering of Khartoum Polytechnic would be
reached by July 31, 1988 as set forth in a plan acceptable to the Bank
Group which would be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group by not later
than July 31, 1985 (para. 8.01a).
4.03       Instructor Training.  As a result of the above consolidation and
improved utilization of the facilities of the College, the Department of
Education which shares the workshops and laboratories, inter alia, of other
Departments in the Polytechnic would be able to produce about 250
instructors annually for the VTCs. Included in the curriculum for the
instructors would be a new training approach using Modules of Employable
Skills (lIES) which is to be adopted by the VTCs (para. 4.06). The new
system developed by ILO would provide the necessary flexibility to the
department to offer courses for instructors at all levels and for all
trades on demand and to further double the output without further capital
investment should the need arise. Included in the project would be funds
to train the first batch of about 90 instructors in a two year course
during the final years of project implementation.
4.04      Technical Assistance for the College of Engineering consisting of
about 71 man-months of specialists services (Annex I, T-10) would be
included to assist in the carrying out of the above programs.  This



- 15 -
assistance would involve a team of 15 different specialists, including
sharing duties for the VTCs (paras. 4.06-4.08).
4.05      The specialists, though working in different geographical and
technical areas, would form one team headed by the Senior Technical
Advisor.  The specialists would prepare and finalize equipment lists
including spare parts for replenishing existing workshops and laboratories,
equipment lists for the new trades and modern technological applications;
prepare workshop and laboratory lay-outs; give technical advice to
questions which would arise in context with rehabilitation programs; give
training in the respective field of competencies in connection with
equipment; prepare and implement relevant curricula in general, and in
particular, prepare, field test and gradually introduce the employment
oriented vocational training concept to establish an instructor training
scheme in accordance with the MES-approach. The team members should work
in close collaboration with the Project Implementation Unit (para.6.03)
being the administrative body for implementation and headquarters for the
team. However, their duty stations would be the respective institutions.
Vocational Training Centers
4.06      Vocational Training would be supported by the proposed project by
providing assistance to the Government in implementing its strategy of
strengthening and expanding training in various skills to meet manpower
requirements for the industrial, private and public sector and to overcome
shortages of manpower caused by the emigration of skilled workers
(paras. 1.07-1.09).
4.07      In particular, the project would provide assistance to six VTCs:
Khartoum I (upgrading training); Khartoum II, Wad Medani, Kosti, Port
Sudan, (apprenticeship training), and MTC - Juba, to improve the
quantitative and qualitative aspects of vocational training through: (a)
rehabilitating existing instructional equipment through provision of spare
parts; (b) providing new equipment where required to maximize the
utilization of existing workshops; (c) establishing new trade options
(including review of extrance requirements in the light of national needs
and as requested by the public and private sector) and training equipment
for those new trades; (d) preparing, field testing and gradually
introducing an employment oriented vocational training concept using MES
which would allow the present enrollment to increase gradually from 3,100
to about 7,000; (e) strengthening the inventory and storage system in the
VTCs; and (f) improving the preventive maintenance and repair system. The
VTC component would include, inter alia, spare parts for existing
equipment, new workshop equipment, vehicles, generators, audio-visual
equipment and training software as well as technical assistance, and
in-service training of about 190 VTC instructors.
4.08      Technical Assistance for the VTCs consisting of about 54
man-months of specialists services (Annex 1, T-10) who would share duties
for the College of Engineering (para 4.02), would be provided under the
project to assist in the implementation of the above items (a) to (f). In
addition, about 24 man-months of fellowships would be included for overseas
training of instructors in the new fields of Industrial Electronics (12



- 16 -
man-months); Agro-Mechanics (6 man-months); Air Conditioning and
Refrigeration (6 man-months).
Teacher Training Institutes
4.09      Program Development of the Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs)
would be supported under the project. This would include provision of
technical assistance, inter alia, to further assist the IREC program
initiated under the Second IDA Education Project (para. 3.02). The program
has been carried out by the Maridi and Bakht er Ruda TTIs on a pilot basis
in both primary education and adult education--literacy, agriculture,
health, social activities, sports, etc., as well as IREC teacher training.
Included would be support (technical assistance) for finalizing the IREC
educational programs, strengthening of teacher training programs, and for
carrying out an evaluation of the pilot programs. The latter aspect is of
particular importance since, inter alia, it would highlight the degree of
participation of various Government agencies to the IREC program, and would
indicate how to promote such participation. Provision for vehicles would
also be included for field visits of trainees and staff for both TTIs.
4.10      Technical Assistance  to be provided would consist of about 108
man-months of specialists services as follows: for Bakht er Ruda TTI, 24
man-months of a specialist in teacher training for integrated education in
rural areas, and six man-months for a program evaluation specialist; for
Maridi TTI, two man-years of a specialist in adult/rural education; two
man-years of a specialist in educational programs for women; two
man-years of a specialist in teacher training curriculum development (rural
education), and six man-months of a specialist in program evaluation (Annex
I, T-10).
Institutional Support
a) Departments of Labor (DOL)
4.11      The Project would assist, inter alia, to strengthen planning,
coordination and monitoring of vocational training in the country by
provision of assistance to the Vocational Training Branch and the
Vocational Training Section of the DOL in Khartoum and Juba respectively.
In particular it would: (a) assist in the establishment and initial
operations of a new vocational training section to supervise the proper use
of facilities, to formulate training policies, and to plan and co-ordinate
training activities; (b) assist in improving and strengthening the skill
testing and certification system; (c) develop a record, inventory follow-up
and evaluation system of training activities, (d) establish a system of
analysis of the training needs, leading to new training methodologies and
appropriate training materials; (e) assist in preparing an instructor
training plan, and (f) strengthen the material and supply section of the
DOL in Khartoum. The project would also provide funds to rehabilitate and
replenish office equipment and materials, audio-visual aids, and supplies
for production of modules of employable skills training software as well as
vehicles.



- 17 -
4.12      Technical assistance to the DOL consisting of about 61 man-months
of specialist (Annex I, T-10) would be included to assist in the carrying
out of the above tasks. In addition about 30 man-months of fellowship
training for five Vocational Training Officers would be included.
b) Ministry of Education and Guidance
4.13      The Department of Planning and Strategy (Para. 2.05) of the MOE
would be provided support in the form of fellowships and equipment to
strengthen its planning which would assist in particular in the training of
regional staff and in streamlining its activities. The Department has
traditionally carried out mainly statistical work and only recently has
expanded its function with the creation of an Economics of Education
Division. Following the ongoing regionalization process, the Planning
Department has the added responsibility of managing and training regional
staff in data collection and analysis, a task for which it does not have
the necessary expertise. The project would provide fellowships for three
staff (9 man-months total)to upgrade their training skills. In order to
assist the Department in handling the inflow of data from the various
Provinces and in storing them, the project would provide also a small
computer and related software, and the assistance of a computer operator.
Pre-Investment Study and Pilot Scheme
4.14      In their present status the fifteen High Technical Secondary
Schools and the eight Vocational Artisan Training Centers are not providing
an efficient and valid contribution to the national training system
(paras. 2.18-2.19). The proposed project would include funds for (a) a
pre-investment study to review the curricula and staff development (12
man-months) and (b) a pilot scheme to undertake limited physical
rehabilitation -- furniture and equipment, as identified as the result of
the study. As a condition of disbursement, the pilot scheme would be
undertaken only after satisfactory completion of the pre-investment study
and agreement by the Bank Group (para. 8.02).
4.15      Technical assistance to carry out this study would consist of two
specialists (total of 12 man-months, Annex I, T-10), one in technical
education for the HTSSs and one specialist in technical vocational training
for the VATCs. Duties would include an inventory of existing facilities
and equipment, redefinition of the objectives of the schools and the
centers, potential to fulfill established objectives, and evaluation of the
curricula vis-a-vis training requirement existing in the country. The
study would include recommendations for the two systems in accordance with
identified needs of potential employers, of higher training institutions
and in general of the Sudanese economy.
Summary of Project Technical Assistance
4.16      Specialist services (369 man-months) included in the technical
assistance component (Annex 1, T-10) would consist of: (a) Polytechnic (71
man-months); (b) six VTCs (54 man-months); (c) Maridi TTI (78 man-months)
and Bakt er Ruda TTI (30 man-months); (d) DOL - Khartoum (39 man-months);



- 18 -
and DOL - Juba (22 man-months); (e) preinvestment study (12 man-months);
(f) Planning Department, MOE (3 man-months); and (g) support to the Project
Implementation Unit (60 man-months) (para.6.02). Satisfactory terms of
reference have been prepared for all specialists to be financed under the
project. Specific duties of the specialists include training of local
counterparts. Technical Assistance specialists would be selected in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines (para. 6.09).
4.17      Fellowships to be provided under the project (total of 39
man-months) would be as follows; (a) 30 man-months for training five senior
vocational instructors in various specialties; and (b) 9 man-months for
strengthening the Planning Department, MOE. Curriculum vitae and courses
of study of fellowship recipients, including proposed training
institutions, would be subject to Bank Group review (Para. 6.09).
Female Participation in the Education and Training Sector
4.18      The perspective plan of the Sudan (1978-1995) stresses the need
for a fuller participation of women in the development process, and this
will continue to be necessary in future years to overcome projected chronic
labor shortages. Women have so far been almost totally confined to
training in traditional fields such as home economics, nursing and
teaching. Those women who have not had access to the higher levels of the
education have entered the labor market with no special skills. In the
present highly fluid labor situation, the recruitment of women is of
increasing interest to employers, because of their lower propensity to
emigrate, implying greater employment stability. The proposed project,
through its support to training facilities, would increase female access to
a variety of occupations at the technician level, and in turn contribute to
the resolution of skill shortages.
4.19      At Khartoum Polytechnic women are readily admitted and attend
different courses in various departments. For example, they represent
about 50% of the enrollment in the Department of Architecture. The
proposed enrollment increase under the project would allow a greater number
of female students to become technicians in various specialties.
4.20      Experimental programs for the IRECs conducted so far in Northern
and Southern villages included activities for women, -- adults as well as
young girls, in literacy, health, child care, nutrition, family planning,
home improvement, farm activities, and vocational training of various
trades. A preliminary evaluation of the trials showed that women always
represented the majority of participants in the programs, being also the
most active 6/. A substantial part of the IREC teacher training program is
devoted to teaching specific topics of women education in rural areas.
Both the IREC curriculum development and teacher training, to be assisted
under the project, with related specialists, would continue to emphasize
the role of women in integrated rural development activities.
6/ UNESCO "Integrated rural development and the role of education". 1982.



- 19 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$18.6 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.5
million.  The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in
Annex I, T-11 and T-12, and are summarized below:
Sudanese Pounds (Millions)       US$(Million)    Base
Project Component        Local  Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total Cost
1. Khartoum Polytechnic    0.64   5.54    6.18         0.50   4.26   4.76   34
2. Vocational Training       1.60   5.06    6.66       1.23   3.89   5.12   37
Centers (6)
3. Teacher Training
Institutes (2)           0.03   1.66    1.69        0.02   1.28   1.30    9
4. Institutional Support   0.01   0.96    0.97         0.01   0.74   0.75    6
5. Pre-investment Study    0.06   1.24    1.30         0.04   0.96   1.00    7
& Pilot Scheme
6. Project Administration  0.58   0.72    1.30         0.45   0.55   1.00    7
Base Cost (Jan.1984)
Total (1-6)         2.92  15.18   18.10       2.25  11.68  13.93  100
7. Contingencies
(a) Physical (10%)       0.29   1.52    1.81        0.22   1.17   1.39
(b) Price (22%)          2.88   9.61   12.49        0.83   2.50   3.33
Sub-Total (7)  3.17  11.13   14.30        1.05   3.67   4.72
Total Project Cost   6.09  26.31   32.4U         3.30  15.35  18.65
of which taxes    0.69       -     0.69      0.53    -      0.53
5.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were reviewed with the PIU and staff of the MOE, the Khartoum Polytechnic,
and the DOL in Khartoum, and Juba. They have been derived from recent cost
data of similar items in the Second Education Project and other similar
projects in Sudan and in particular, equipment costs are based on recent
ILO cost data. About 30% of equipment costs is for repair and
rehabilitation of existing equipment. Civil works represent only about 9%
of the project costs and comprise mainly rehabilitation works. Cost
comparision with other education projects is not possible due to



- 20 -
rehabilition nature of the project. Technical Assistance costs have been
based on US$100,000 per man-year for specialist services including travel
and housing allowances which is in line with the UN/ILO rate for similar
services. Fellowships, including cost of travel, tuition and boarding have
been estimated at US$25,000 per man-year.
5.03      Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes in accordance with
the normal practice of the Government. It is expected that some of the
building materials to be used for civil works and some furniture would be
acquired on the local market and would accordingly be subject to customs
duties and/or taxes. Inland transportation of equipment estimated at US$
0.7 million would include taxes for fuel. Local labor costs would include
a tax component of 5-10%. The total tax is estimated at US$0.5 million
equivalent.
5.04      Contingency Allowances. For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base costs. Estimated price increases from the base cost date
(Jan. 1984) have been applied in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex 1, C-5) and are based upon the following annual rates:
Inflation Rates                1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Domestic Inflation 7/          21.0%   19.0%    16.5%   15.0%  15.0%
International Inflation         7.5%    7.0%      6.5%    6.0%   6.0%
The annual rates of price increase have been reviewed by Bank
Group Staff and have been found satisfactory. The total price increase is
estimated at 22% of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  This component has been calculated
as follows: (a) civil works and furniture, 60%; (b) equipment and vehicles,
95%; (c) technical assistance, 100%; and (d) professional services, 20%,
(e) training, 15% and (f) project administration, 10%. Although the
technical assistance component contains certain local costs, it is expected
that a contract would be awarded with total payment in foreign exchange
following the normal practice of UN Agencies. Including contingencies, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$15.3 million.
7/ Inflation rates used for all local costs except wages and salaries in
public sector, the latter have been inflated by 6 percent per annum.
A variable rate of exchange has been used to compute price
contingencies in term of US Dollars.



- 21 -
Financial Plan
5.06      The financing plan provides for IDA assistance of US$15.4 million
equivalent (85% of total project cost net of taxes), as follows:
US$ million
IDA
Category                      Gov't      SFR    IDA   Total
1.  Civil Works                          0.67    0.55      -      1.22
2.  Furniture, Equipment & Vehicles   0.10    7.26    0.65   8.01
3.  Technical Assistance                 0.05      -      3.12   3.17
4.  Professional Services (A/E)          0.02      -      0.10   0.12
5.  Instructor Training                  0.91      -       -      0.91
6.  Project Administration               0.50      -       -      0.50
7.  Contingencies                        1.00    2.19    1.53   4.72
Total                      3.25   10.00    5.40  18.65
of which taxes                  0.53      -        -     0.53
Total (net of taxes)                 2.72   10.00    5.40  18.12
The IDA Credit would finance 100% of foreign expenditures estimated at
US$15.35 million equivalent and US$0.05 million equivalent in local cost,
with the Government financing the balance of US$2.72 million equivalent
phased over a period of four years with a maximum contribution of about
US$1.0 million equivalent in any one year.
5.07      Assuming that Government recurrent expenditures grow at about
2.5% per year in real terms, and that the share of education remains at
about 22%, recurrent expenditures generated by the project wheni in full
operation (about 1989/90) would account for less than 1% of the education
budget.  Furthermore, the effective implementation of the project should
result in noticeable reductions in unit costs in sorme of the project
assisted institutions, namely the College of Engineering and the Juba
Multiservice Training Center.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMIENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
6.01       Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a period of four
years including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals
(Annex 1, C-5). The project is scheduled to be completed by December 31,



- 22 -
1987 with a Closing Date of June 30, 1988.  Due to the nature of the
project (minimal civil works, inter alia) and with assistance by a team of
highly experienced specialists from an international agency, such as ILO
(para 6.02), the implementation schedule is deemed to be realistic.
6.02      Administration. The PIU established in the tiOE to implement the
two previous education projects would be responsible for the administration
and financial control of the project, including coordination with the
various Ministries and Departments, and liaison with the Bank Group. The
post of project director of the PIU is already filled with a qualified
Sudanese. The Bank Group would be consulted on the appointment to the
positions of the Assistant Project Director (Expert in project
Implementation - Annex 1-T, 10) and Accountant. To ensure appropriate and
timely coordination between the PIU and the various 11inistries and
Departments involved, representatives from the Khartoum Polytechnic, for
the Polytechnic component, the DOL of the Khartoum Ministry of Labor for
the VTCs in Northern Sudan and the DOL of the Equatoria Regional Ministry
of Finance for the MTC in Juba and the MOE would be appointed in order to
obtain a rapid decision from their superiors where implementation of any
specific component may be affected. The representatives would be appointed
as a condition of Credit Effectiveness (para 8.03a). The PIU and the
various Departments would be strengthened with technical assistance
specialists in procurement, equipment repair and curriculum development,
testing methodology, etc. The Government has provided assurances that it
would contract an international agency, such as ILO, to assist the
Government in carrying out the Polytechnic and VTC components including
recruitment and administration of the related specialists, by not later
than September 1, 1984 (para. 8.01b). The existing PIU would provide all
over project coordination. Therefore the senior technical advisor and MiES
coordinator to be recruited through the international agency would be
posted in the PIU.  To provide adequate project implementation and project
accounting the PIU would be strengthened by an additional 60 man/months of
specialists services in these fields. Specified duties of these
specialists would also include emphasis on the training of local
counterparts.   The remaining specialists to be recruited would be posted
in the project offices referred above.
6.03      Project preparation Facility (PPF).  To further advance project
preparation, a PPF in the amount of US$110,000 equivalent has been approved
for 12 man-months of technical assistance to advance preparation of, inter
alia, lists of equipment for institutions included in the project.
6.04      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  For the
preparation of designs, bidding documents and supervision of construction,
consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines. It is expected that local firms would be selected to carry out
this work. Costs of these consultants is estimated at US$1,000 per
man-month which includes salary, fees, travel and subsistence. These
consultants would be under the supervision of the Director of the PIU.
6.05       Sites.  No new sites are required for the project.  Existing
sites are adequate for the rehabilitation works and raodest new civil works
included in the project.



- 23 -
Procurement
6.06      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
(US$ millions)
Project Element           ICB    LCB       Other      NA      Total Cost
Civil Works                        1.70                               1.70
(0.80)                             (0.80)
Furniture, Equip. &   )  9.30    1.00                                10.30
Vehicles.              ) (9.30)  (0.90)                             (10.20)
Technical Assist.                            4.30                     4.30
(4.25)                  (4.25)
Professional services                        0.18                     0.18
(0.15)                  (0.15)
In-Service Training                                   1.55            1.55
Proj. Administration                                  0.62            0.62
Total                   9.30    2.70       4.48    2.17            18.65
(9.30)  (1.70)    (4.40)  ( - )           (15.40)
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
6.07      Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group guidelines for procurement. Hlowever, civil works contracts
(estimated total US$1.7 million including contingencies) which are not
expected to attract foreign firms due to the small size and nature
(rehabilitation) of the work, and furniture, equipment and vehicles
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each (estimated to total
US$1.0 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. In addition, procurement of all
furniture, equipment and vehicles which are to be financed under the IDA
Special Fund Resources (IDA-SFR) would be limited to firms from part II
countries and eligible part I countries. When ICB procedures are used,
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin
of preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties,
which ever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.



- 24 -
6.08      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award would be
required only for contracts above US$250,000 for civil works and US$50,000
equivalent for furniture, equipment and vehicles.
6.09      Technical Assistance.  All specialists (para. 4.16) and
consultants (para. 6.04) would be hired under contracts on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank Group in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The Government has indicated its
intention to award a contract to an international agency, such as ILO, to
provide and administer the specialists and fellowships under the
vocational/technical components of the project (para. 6.02). Curriculum
vitae and courses of study of fellowship recipients (para 4.17), including
proposed training institutions, would be subject to Bank Group review.
Disbursement
6.10      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-14) would be made on the basis of: a)
45Z of total or 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works and
professional services; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, equipment and vehicles, 100% of ex-factory cost if
manufactured locally, or 65% of local expenditures if procured locally;
and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for
technical assistance.
6.11      All disbursements would be fully documented.   Due to the special
nature of the project (rehabilitation and minimal civil works plus
administration by a team of experienced specialists) a comparison based on
past experience in Sudan is not appropriate. A faster disbursement has
been assumed on the basis of the special nature of the content of the
project.
6.12      Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, two Special Accounts, operated by the
PIU, would be established in a bank in Sudan with an initial deposit of
US$500,000 from the SFR and US$250,000 from IDA, in total US$750,000
equivalent in foreign exchange. The accounts would be replenished on the
basis of documentary evidence, to be provided to the Bank Group by the
Borrower, of payments made from the accounts for goods and services
required for the project. The opening of the two accounts into which the
initial amount of the Special Accounts would be deposited would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 8.03b).
6.13      In order to ensure that the Government's counterpart funding also
would be available when needed, the Government would establish a separate
Project Advance Account into which it would deposit LSO.17 million to
finance the Borrower's contribution to the project.  The account would be
replenished at the beginning of each semester in an amount estimated to be



- 25 -
required to cover expenditures for the project during such semester and
which are not to be covered by withdrawals from the Credit Account or from
the Special Fund Credit Account. Establishing the Project Advance Account
and depositing the initial amount, of LSO.07 million, would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness and additional LSO.1 million would be deposited by
September 1, 1984 (para.8.03c).
6.14      Reporting and Evaluation.   Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Bank Group by the PIU each
December and June following Credit effectiveness. The format would be
mutually agreed upon prior to the date of the first submittal and would be
modified as deemed necessary during implementation of the project. The PIU
would prepare and send to the Bank Group for comments within six months
from the Closing Date, a completion report assessing attainment of project
objectives, project implementation and initial operation, its cost and the
benefits derived, the performance of the Government, the Bank Group and
other agencies involved, and the significant lessons learned.
Auditing
6.15      The PIU, a financially autonomous entity under the MOE, would
maintain separate accounts for all project activities in conformity with
national accounting practices. These accounts would be controlled
according to normal Government financial control procedures which are
satisfactory. The PIU would prepare an annual report summarizing the
financial situation of all project operations, which would be submitted to
the Bank Group. Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures financed under the project. Auditing would be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, within twelve months
following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project is expected to assist in expanding and improving
training to about 1,400 students in technician (Diploma) courses, and about
250 technical instructors per year who would teach an average of about
8,000 vocational and technical trainees and in an annual production of
about 6,700 semi-skilled and 450 skilled workers (Annex 2). The above
targets would be attained gradually, following the adoption of proposed
changes in the training system. In particular it is estimated that the
initial output of the Poiytechnic and VTCs would result in an increase of
about 25% and 35% respectively. Improvement in training is expected to
raise qualifications and increase work performance. Ongoing and future
development projects would greatly benefit from the increased supply of
technical manpower and its improved quality. The rehabilitation nature of
the proposed project would result in the projected enrollment increases to
be achieved at low capital and recurrent costs (para. 5.07).
7.02      Project support to the DOL in Khartoum and Juba and to the
Planning Department of MOE would help improve the management,



- 26 -
planning and evaluation of the education and training (paras. 4.11 &
4.13).   Support to both Maridi and Bakht er Ruda TTIs would result in
improved education services in rural areas (para. 4.09).
Risks
7.03       No major risks are anticipated.  Migration of skilled manpower is
expected to continue but at a lower rate than in the past. The project is
assisting in doubling the production of technicians and almost quadrupling
the output of skilled manpower which is expected to assist in alleviating
the shortages in the local market (Paras. 4.02 and 4.06). Security
problems experienced in the South under The Second Education Project (Para
3.02) are ininimized since the project component in the South is in the main
urban area  of Juba.  The use of an international agency to assist in the
administration of the project, and the establishment of a project advance
account are expected to eliminate risks involved in the implementation of
the project and the timely provisions of local counterpart funds (para.
6.02 & 6.14).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHIED AND RECOMIENDATIONS
8.01       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
a) Enrollment of the College of Engineering would be increased to about
1,400 students by July 31, 1988, in accordance with a satisfactory plan to
be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group for review by not later than
July 31, 1985 (para. 4.02); and b) it would contract an international
agency, such as ILO, to assist the Government in carrying out the
Polytechnic and VTCs components by not later than September 1, 1984 (para.
6.02).
8.02       As a condition of disbursement, the pilot scheme would be
undertaken only after satisfactory completion of the study of the EITSS and
VATCs (para. 4.14).
8.03       As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government would:
a)  Appoint representatives of the various Mfinistries and
Departments involved in the project (6.02).
b)  open two special accounts into which the initial amount of
the funds would be deposited (para. 6.12); and
c)  establish and fund a project advance account (para. 6.13).
8.04       Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDRs 14.8 million (US$5.4
million equivalent on standard IDA terms and US$10.0 million equivalent
from IDA Special Resource Fund) to the Democratic Republic of Sudan.



- 27 -
SUDAN                                    Annex 1
Table T-1
Third Education Project
Official Number of Emigrants to the Oil Countries, by Occupation 1974/78-1981/82
Occupation                    1974/78        1978/79       1979/80        1980/8         1981/82       Total
Technicians                     604            775          1,111          1,461          1,319        5,270
Managers & Administrators       201            328             153           487            209        1,378
Clerks                          319             50            475            249            169        1,262
Service Workers                 411            444            285            441              8        1,589
Sales Workers                    -              12            123            143            108          386
Agricultural Workers             -              44            306            658            606        1,614
Factory Workers                  29             21              84            51            209          394
Tailors                          36             53              87            59              5          240
Carpenters                      885            272            728            538            107        2,530
Blacksmiths                     504            407            476            649            117        2,153
Fitters & Mechanics             432             47            598            433            162        1,672
Electricians                    277            134              99           422             78        1,010
Painters                        151            162            583            410             53        1,359
Plumbers  .                     163            105            435             90             20          813
Builders                        935            466            497            518             90        2,506
Transport & Equip. Operat. 1,751               826          2,020          1,172         1,608         7,377
Typists                          19             22            216            -              198          455
Unskilled Workers             2,710         3,535           6,770          5,470         2,676        21,161
Total                         9,427         7,703          15,046         13,251         7,742        53,169
Source: Department of Labor.



- 28 -
SUDAN                       Annex .1
Table T-2
Third Education Project
QUALIFIED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS, 1976/77-1982/83
Selected Skills
Level                     Specialization                           Demand    Supply    Deficit
Professionals             Agriculture                             5,000      2,660      -2,340
Veterinarians                          2,200       1,000     -1,200
Doctors and Pharmacologists            3,010       2,845        -165
Engineers                              4,400       2,240     -2,160
Total                                 14,610       8,745     -5,865
Technicians               Agriculture and Forestry                5,000      2,150      -2,850
Veterinary                             2,000         580     -1,420
Medical assistants                     2,400       1,370     -1,030
Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering                          3,500         580     -2,920
Construction                           2,200         550     -1,650
Communication and chemical
Engineering                          5,550       4,935       -615
Total                                 20,650      10.165    -10,485
Technical Assistants      Agriculture, Forestry and
Veterinary                           4,000       1,800     -2,200
Engineering and Construction           5,200       2,000     -3,200
Commerce and Banking                   1,100         900       -200
Total                                 10.300       4,700     -5,600
Skilled Labour            Agriculture                           15,000       4,000    -11,000
Engineering and Construction          24,000        9,400    -14,600
Total                                 39,000      13,400    -25,600
Source: Sudan Six Year Development Plan 1976/77-1982/83.



-29 -                                                                    Annex 1
COMPARATIVE FDUCATION INSDICATORS                                                 Table    T-,
SEPTEMBER 29, 1983                                                         Page    1  of    2
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                          COMPLETIOF            BFCIIRR?NT
oN EDUCATION  RECURRENT       ADULT              RATE POB              UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER               AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATF PFROM   SECONDnARY SDCONDARY FICHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNE TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE            ENROLL. SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   rTUnENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR 4ILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    FRI  SEC  Hi    (I)    RATIO   CYCLE               PPR       AS PERCEFNT SECONDARY   RATIO       PER        PATIO 
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE            (1)        (1976)   (2)         (1)      TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA        (%)        (7.)    TEACHFR       ()|
(1)     (2)        (3)            (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)       (8)        (9)        (10)          (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DeVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA           RD    14.6b  9,870       6.3'        14.6        -    --            -        103'      100         21        ---           99          71        13       20.9n
CANADA             81    23,7b  9,650b    7.7'           195.5y      30'? 34'? 23'?  g9b         106'      100         21        19.9'?       100          92'       18       22.60'
GERMANY F.R.       79    61.2  12,200        4.6          9.9        ---  ---  -       99 g6b     89p      100'        --        ---          1008         Q4.       ---      12.1?'
NETHERLANDS         79    14.0  10,490       7.9          5.1        20   35   25       99b?      96        95        lB         15.3          99          R2        13       12.4n
NEW ZEALAND        80      3,2b  6,RI6b   5*52           13.4        37   31   28       996      100       100         24        11.6         100          82        15       25.FO""
SWEDEN             79      8.3  12,250       9.0         18.2        31   10   10       99b       99'      100         IP'       19.9         IO(          78x       1l-av    3.3*V
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA           90      o.8b    720b    6.3P          19.3        48   28   15       35b       94        74         32        22.0          33''        20       1:         1.sr
BURUNDI            81      4.2      235      2.8bw       19.0        43   28   27       25        29'       35         37        2n.2          12           3'       17        ,.r,
COMOROS            50      0.4b    260       6.5'        25.4        40   28b  14       ---       99'       65         45        16.0          58         ?71        30        1.
DJIBOUTI           81      0.3      460      5.4         10.8        60   40   ...    10          32        -          41        ---           60           8        1Q
ETHIOPIA            BC    33.Qb    130b    2.2P          11.1'       52   32   14'    15          38        -          59        18.0          ---          9        '4*       5.10
KENYA               79    15.3      390      5.9'        lB.0b       71   15   14       45        92        74         40        15.8          41          19        28        1.0n
LESOTHO            82      1.4b    435b    5.5           16.9        38   32   26       53b      116'       41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.3n
MADAGASCAR          77     8.5      330      4.0'        24.0        53   28   19       50        94bx      33         55b        8.0          38          14        23        3.1nhy
MALAWI             81      6.1b    230b    3.5           11.4        38   14   25       25b       62        23         65         5.R          12           4        2:        0.4C.
HAURITIUS          80      0,9b  1,080b    6.0           11.5        39   40    7       s0        87        78         22b       17.1          79          45x       21        0.40
RwANDA              RI     5.0b    200b    3.2           21.3        62   17   11       23b       57'       62         40        14.0           6           4'       13        0.40
SEYCHELLES         79      0.6   1,770       5.9         22.4a       34'  33'  10       --       -         --         25        ---            --          ---       ---     ---
SOMALIA            81      4.4      280      1.5         10.5        55   10   21       50b       22        -          29         5.4          53b         12        22        l.00
SUDAN              50    19.2b    380b    3.0            --          66   39   ...    32          51".      68         34         1.4          44          16        16       ...
SWAZILAND          80      0.6      760      7.9         18.8        41   34   15       65b       79        50         34        11.2          98          37b       19        2.50
TANZANIA           80    18.5       260      5.9         17.7        47   10   16       79b       98b       87         43        11.0          1gb          3        20'       0.30
UGANDA              RI    L2.6b    300b    ---           16.1'       23b  37b  20b    48          54'       61         34       -              17           5        23       n0.6,
ZAIRE              78    27.5       210'    6.0'         22.0        49   26   25       15        84Y      44          42'      -              41          13'       27        1.10by
ZAMBIA             80 .    5.7b    566b    4.5P          11.1        48   23   22       44b       95        80        48         12.9          19          16        22        1.5n
ZIMBABWE           81      7.7b    700b    5.1           19.5        62   32    6       44b       90       55         39        20.0           85          15        23        0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN              79      3.4b    320b    6.5'          35.0        43   21    5    11b          42        30         46        14.0          30          11        43        1.00Y
CAMEROON           78      8.2      590      2.9Y        16.0y       33'  43'  20    -            74Y       45'        s0Y       11.8'         20'         14Y       26        4.300
C.A.R.             79      2.2      280      3.89Y       20.6Y       -    -    --    -            --       -           65'Y     --             --          --        ---       0.70'Y
CHAD               76      4.4      120      2.4sy       21.7b       __   _   -_    15            25Y      -           77       -_             ---          3'Y      21        0.2ny
CONGo              78      1.5      670      9.0"wy      27.7Y       -    --   _    -            __        -_          56by      _             30          __        43by      4.00*Y
GABON              77      0.6   3,420       3.7bY        8.4Y        _    _          __    __    _                    46by     -              --          __        1gby      2.80'Y
GAMBIA             77      0.6      220    63.3            .5b       46   25'   6'  lb          40bY      g0o         27by     44.7'          40          12b)y    17         ---
OAHAA              76    11.3       400      4.0Y        15.5b       --   --   -       -          71bxy    --          27by     --             --          36b2y    21         ---
GUINRA             79      5.3      290P    4.6'P        --          25'  289  288   20           34        36         38        20.0P        R5          16        29        7.00d
IVORY COAST        81      8-2b  lo70b   10.0           45.0        33   46   13    30b          60       86          43       26.0           47          is")Y    26         1.90'
LIBERIA            80      1.9      520      4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30           52        32         35        20.0          76          22        20        2.90
MALI                91     7.0b    190       4.2'        21.7'       38   21   11    10           20        60         44        15.7          66           1        11        0.90dY
KAURITANIA         78      1.6b    320b    5.5           16.9        33   43   25    17b          32        60         44        52.0          30           9        25        0.37
NIGER              78      5.2      300      4.3'Y       16.6'y      52'  43'   5'    8           17        56'        41'       38.7'         40           2        24b       0.20Y
NIGERIA            77    82.6       910      4.1)         9.6        ---  --   -       -                    --         --        --            --          1 07      25        n.17Y
SENEGAL            77      5.5      450      5.0         23.0        46   34   20    10           34b6 y   _           43by     --             20          10        21        2.20by
SIeRRA LEONE       77      3.4      250      4.0b        16.0b       --  -    --    15b           37'      __          35       25.0b          84          15'       22        0.6o))Y
TOGO                78     2.4      400      6.5q'       26.5q       30'  28-  21'   18           74        40         54by      38.0          52          32b7y   48b        I6Oby
UPPER VOLTA        78      5.6      180      3.0w"       19.3'y      31   16   32    --           15by      23         53by      52.5?         19           3b2y    25         0.02Y
LATIN AMRICA AND THN  CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA          78    27.3   2,210        2.7         10.9        43'  31'  18   93b          89        52         17        -             87          31         B       23.00
BAHAMAS            79      0.2   2,770       5.7         19.1        36   36   11    93b          99        97         24       -              97          75        19       ---
RARRADOS           78      0.2   2,690       8.5"'y      22.1'       43'  31'  16'   ggb        tooy        99'        27P       19.9'         99'         78Y       20Y)
BOLIVIA            80      5.4      550      4.1'Y       30.5'       -    --  -        63         74Y       -          20Y       -             --          15Y       ---      12.60y
BRAZIL             79   116.5   1,770        3.8          6.2        51   -    14    76           73ay      --         23'y       4.5b         61*         15kY      14'Y    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1,890        3.2bY       13.Ob       ---        ---              11962l     _          34by     --             --          ss5by    20by    11.90bY
COLOMBIA           80    26.7b  1,180b    3.3            25.0        35   20   20   8sb           7B        36         32         6.6          --          47        20       10.02'Y
COSTA RICA         80      2.2b  I RiOb    8.4           31.1        40   27   33    90           93        77         33         5.5          77          40        27       14.00
CUBA               78      9.8      ---      8.0         11.0       -_   --   -        96        112bxy    98          18bY     --             98          71b62y    15       19.02by
DOMINICAN REP.    80       5.3   1,030       2.9         13.0        39   21   22    68b          80        31         59         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
ECUADOR            80      8.4b  1,110       6.OP        36.7        45   31   16    81          105        --         36        12.6          86          47        16       29.00
EL SALVADOR         77     4.4      640      3.4by       23.1by      64    8   27    62           92b6y    32          39        --            41          26by27  7by         7,90bY
GUATEMALA          78      6.8   1,010       1.7-Y       12.6b       ---  ---  -       -          69b6      --         35by     -              69          15b6y    19by       5.50Y
GUYANA             76      0.8      630      8.1by       13.9by      -  - _            __9 g9b9y    --                32by      ---           ---         59b6y    __         3.0(by
b'AITI             80      5.ob    230       3.4'         7.9'Y      65    9    6    23b          50        20         41        19.0          62'          4'       27        0.80
HONDURAS           78      3.6      520      3.5by       14.3by      62'  153  19-   60           89bxy    30'         41by      12.89         68a         21'Y      19        8.00Y
JAKAICA            RO      2.1   1,110       6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90           99        99         40         2.3          95          81        22        8.00
MEXICO             80    65.5  1BBO         4.7         17.0'       46   39   15    92           98        53         44         9.5          86          56        17       10.30
NICARAGUA          78      2.6b   610`       3.0b1       14.0b             --   --    go6         9562      24         376                     --           962 326b
PANAMA             7B      1.8b  1,550b    5.5b-y        21.8by      42'  138  13    82b          95by     ---         25by      11.6          85'         50by      27by    20.40by
PARAGUAY           79      3.0   1,140       1.4'        14.2        42   17   20    84           83       32          28         3.1r         76          22        12        0.70
PERU               80    16.6   1,000        3.6         14.3        53   15   19    80           83        56         39         9.8          89          39        22       14.40Y
TRINIDAD & TOB.   77       1.1   3,910       4.8by        8.8bY      48   32   20    95           98        91         30        10.5?         49          62        24       ---
URUGUAY            78      2.9   2,500       2.5          9.4b       ---  ---  ---   94          1O5b,      ---        24b       -             ---         64b4      ---      17.80)Y
VENEZUELA          78    14.4   3,440        5.1Y        18.9b       ---  ---  _    82           106b,     ---         28       ---            --          39b6      17       21.10Y



- 30 -                                                                           Annex 1
Table T-
COMPARATIVE FDUCATION INDICATORSPa e 2 o                                                                        2
SEPT"ENRI 29, 1983
CENTRL 1
0EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                            COMPLETION             RECUNRNiNT
SN EDUCATION  RXECURRNT ESADULT                     S'ATE FOR              lESIT COST  PROCRESSION
GM?P PER               A  PERCENT    ExPnrDITUSE   LITERACY PRIMAR   PRIMARY           PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SFCONDARY HICHER
BlASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT IGNP TOTAL CEtNTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE            ENROLL. SCHOOL        STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUIENKTS  FNHOLL.
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT           P11  SEC  Hi       M?     RATIO   CYCLE         PER        AS PERrENT SECONDARY   RATIO          PFR        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITU2RE             (1)         (1976)   (1)          (2)      TEACHER  GNP/CAPTTA         (I)         (%3)  ~TFACHF.R       (1
(13      (2)        (3)            (4)            (53           (6)        (7)       (8)         (9)        (10)          (11)         (12        (.3)_   (14)
EAST ASIA ANRD TEE PACIPIC
CHINA               81   996.Ob       300b     3.6           8.3        34   39   27        69b       80         63         23          7.0           72          38         17        3.70
INDONESIA           81   150 .5b    520        2.1           9.3        70   24    6        32b       98         61         37         11.0           74          27         26        3.70
KOREA               82    30.3b  1.666         7.7"         20.8        34   34   31        96        99         98         43         19.0          98           84         38       21.00
MALAYSIA            RI     14:2b   ,789        5.1   2      22.0        32"  37"  15"    60b          96"-       97         22         12.2'          87          6 5'       19        1.700
PAPUA N.C.          79      2.9       76       5.4"         16.4"       -    -    --        -         62b.       73         31          1.1           --           2b,       23       --
PHILIPPINES         79    48.3b       69Gb    2.8"         14.0         64   36**t--        756       84         65         31          7.1           99          59         36       21.00
SINGAPORE           50      2.4   4.420        2.7           6.7        39   40   16        83        92         82         31          9.0          94           55         ?2        P. 0
SOLOMON 101.        80      0.2       460      4.2P"       10.8'        41   34   20        -         60         00         26        --             35           19          -        -
THAILAND            80    47,3b    7336        3.4         20.9         59   15   13        866       96         --         17          9.3           59          29        '2?        60
SOUTH ASIA
RASIGLADESH         79    92 .36      290      I.lP        to Jay       51   17   20        226       63Y        -          53          5.6          ---          14         23        1.43
INDIA               77   659.6        210      2.90          :9.9"      --  -    -          36        79' -                 41        --             ---          207        --         .300Y
NEPAL               s0     14.3b    1406       2.6           9.9        27   IR   36        19        88'        30         38'       -              64           1S''       20        i.007-
PAKISTAN            79    79.7        270      2.0"!         5.10       39   26   27        24        56'        0          48          6.5          51           20 0,-      7        61.00
EOP   MIDEEAST AND NORTH AFRICA
APANSYAN         77    15.5       ---      1.7           3.7         47   19   15       12         31b0      69          376                      62            9        7226       1.007Y
ALGERIA             79    18.3   1,770         3.8"         12.3        34'  26'  21'    35           830        45'        37          7.0?          55.         207        26        3.700
EGYP                81 -  43,Ob    5806        3."           4.5        31'  33'  26'       44        84'       50'         36          9.8'         83'          43         19       15.00"
GREECE              76      9.3   4.140        2.6":       10.6b        37   26   21        -         9767      --          396         6.2'         ---          79b.       2760     17..0b67
IRANc               79     36 .9     --        5.7'!       14.1'!              ---       50       101"-      -           32'   --          -       --          4400      24'        4.Q077
IRAQ                79    12.6   2. 710        4.35!        6.9'!                   -       -        1007       -           28         -             ---          4577      290        9.30'7
IRELAND             81      3,46  4,480        6.3'!       11.8'!                           98        93        94          29         -             9            91         14       01.70
JO9.DAN             NI      2,2b  1.420b    4.9"           10.2         19   44   18        706      bR'-       a5          32          7.2          91           820       25        09.00,
LEBANON             79       2.3      ---      -            18.6"7        ---    -          -         96'       -           19        ---            --           46'        ---      27.8000
MOROCCO             80     19.5       740      6.3"'        17.5'       36   46   20        28        56A0       35         39         19.7          40           25'        21        4.50
IRA2J               79      0.9   3.530        3.7"'!        4.9'Y     -.-.             -             45'!      -           23'       ---            --            7'         9       --
PORTUGAl            79      9,8.b  2,0600      3.6         22.2         50   2R   11        78        90        20          19'       12.9           88'          45'        17'       R.30'
ROKKANIA            78    22.1   2.100         3,960         6.237           -              98       106b.      -           23b                      99           94b.       22b      10.60b0
SPASM               76    37.0   4,920         2.10        16.80              -    --       --        9960                  2.9b      -              --           67bY       0- 4.10by
SYIA                78      8.6   1.170        A.4P        10.3         39   23   26        58        97b!      8o          3s6       -              68           4167       2'       12.60
TUYISIA             79       6.4   1.130       7.OP         19.0        65   39   18        462      100'        80         394        12.8          30           30'        30       61.30
TURXEY              81      4,7b  1,460b       3.1         26.2            ----             73k'     118'       90'         28          7.9           51          38         20        6.70
YEMEN A.R.          90      6.8       420      3.OP"       12.0         94     7    7       21b       37         12'        380       67.0           85            3         20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.        82      2.0b    4206       7.6           9.7        63'  14'   8'       33        61        34          25        22.0'          46           17        20         2.50
SUIORAY FOR DEVEILOPING COUNTRIES:
N-mba  oP Coun tries:                      93                94       70   69   67       76         as        6A          94        62             72           91        86       05
Range:                                     (1.4-             3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (S-         (15-       (12-         (17-      (1.1-          (6-          (2-       (8-      (0.00-
10.03           45.03  96)   66)  36)    993          119)      99)          77)       67.0)          99)          84)       483      29.0)
Quartil..: Upp-o                             5.6           20.8       52  '35   21        81        96        so          62        20             85           45        25        10.6
Median:                         3.9            13.3      43   27   18        52        83         61         35         12            62           25         21        3.7
Lawct                           3.0            10.6      36   18   13        24        56         35         27          7             40          13         08        1.0
3-atille D-vatio-                            1.3             5.2   10.5  8.3  4.0   28.5          20.0      22.5         7.5       6.3           22.5         16.0       3.5         4.8
Mea-                                         4.5            16.2      46   29   18        53        75        60          36        16             61           31        23         6.9
Standard D-iSati-n                           1.9             7.5      13   10    7       30         26        25          12        13             27           24         7         7.5
Media,:                                      4.0            13.6      43   28   19        32        83        61          35        12             62           25        21         3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                          FOOTNOTES:
DATUM UNAVAIL.ABLE                                             A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                              S - MINISTRtY OP EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
MAGNITU2DE Mn. OR NEGLIGIBLE                                   S - DATUM MOVE RECENfT THAN RASE YEA                      T - MOE AND STATE, GOVERNMENT ONLY
DATUM QUESTIONARLE                                             N - CURRENT PRICES                                        H - PUBLIC FPEPPNDITURE ONLY
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                     P - GDP                                                  X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Colum.a  I  od 2:  WarrlId Sank Atla.  or IBRkSasso
Colmn  3 to 14:  IBRD  i.sion., Go-rnaen,t ..ources and/or Unesco Stati.tical Yearbook.
omasieEdu-tion Data are ..eEn1 it the  -valution of variou  education sy.tees ad analysi. of relative  stags. of ed-cti.el development Sete-  vari-u
c...ltries.  How-e, on the hesls of the prevent dota, cros-national com parison should he approached with great c*ati.e.  Data presen ted in th  above table h-v
been collected largely by Sank mission. Era. Eeer,sant ...urces  the reeAinder are st.ff ..timat.. or data from U...c..  Efforts have been ned. to etaodardiee
deinitions cod, i,thi. lmilts, to check the accracy of thin data.  Sererth.lees, euch data ar  still imperfect Sn sevral resp-ctn .nd the Sack iso urkig to
improve t6am  pr.greasieely on the occ....ion  of its oerational work.  In the astof th... data, the fol1awing qualifi..tions  hould be kept So mInd:
(1) 'Eduo*ti.n" as dWined in the table i..ldase all edcation end training. both form,el and nan-for,sal.
(23  'Prieery' education refer, to edu..tSnn at the first lev-l and -.cod.Y  education refer, to all edu...tio. at the aecodary leve  regardles  of typo
(3)  -Literacy ratese  (c.l. 6) are often obtained from  country coa.......  I  many coutries they ac  only opp-islationa ccnd it Is d..btfu1 that aoy ocifors
defilntion of "literate" ha. been foIlloud coniltently.
(4)  "Public  apesditur. in oduction" (cola. 6 and 5) refera to all capital and recrrent enpenditcures d-tcnd to educa.cico by poblic acd quaei-poblic
asecIs
(5)  'Enr.ll::nt ra tias    cl.7  12 and 143 refer to ochool year and are the per-etage of eligible children enrolled full-time  In the appropriate  .chool.
poblic  nd private by'clevl.:I   They are often soh3ect to a  ISd. mrgin of error in the developing coun.tries OnioN to v-riations  So the accr-y of banic
data (i.e.,  ge-.-n.ific population and erlmns. Enrollmen.t fig.res frequen.tly are higher th.. the number of st,,d-otoctoally in ochool.  0Se--ged
.todente h...e inclosioc is indicated by footnotes also  canflate the ratio...



Annex 1
-31 -                                Table T- 4
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
SUMMARY OF PRESENT AND PROPOSED ENROLLMENT IN DAY-COURSES
ENROLLMENT
Departments               1982/83         Proposed          Increases x
(Code)
A.   Architecture                90               180                 100
C.   Civil Engineering           89               180                 100
M.  Mechanical Engineering       69               180                 161
El.  Electrical Engineering      94               180                  91
Ec.  Electronics                 88               180                 104
L.   Laboratory Technology       70               120                  71
T.   Textile Technology          71               ISO                 153
S.   Surveying                   77               180                 134
Te.  Techn'ical Education        22                30 i/               36
Total                             i7W 14               +110%
Source:  Khartoum Polytechnic and Bank Staff Estimates.
1/ In addition the Dept. of Education will train about 250 VTC instructors
in evening courses.



- 32 -
.Annex I
Table T- 5
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
College of Engineering
Student Teacher Ratio
Assistant Lecturers                  Student
and           Total         Teacher
Students     Lecturers          Instructors          Staff          Ratio
1982/83         670             92                 60               152            4.4 , 1
Proposed      1,410             76                 55               131             11 - l
Variation   + 110%             -18%                -9%              -14%          +150%
Source:  Khartoum Polytechnic and Bank Staff Estimates.



- 33 -
SUDAN                             Annex 1
Table T-6
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENTS, OUTPUT and INSTRUCTORS
1982/83    1987       1988      1989
Enrollment
Apprenticeship Courses (2 years)           2,872      3,246    3,620    1,585
Short Courses (1 year)                       231
HIES Courses                                            390*      549*   2,683**
Total                                      3,103      3,636    4,169    4,268
Instructors Required                         239        367       416       426
Output
Apprenticeship Courses                     1,436      1,623      1,810      794
Short Courses                                462
MES Courses                                             780*    1,098*  6,170**
Total Trained Manpower                     1,898      2,403      2,908   6,964
* 4ES-training programs partly introduced.
** MES-training programs fully introduced.  That shown is the enrollment in the
student places at any one time.  Repeated shorter (3/6 months ) courses result
in the shown output.
Sources: Department of Labor and Bank Staff estimates.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Table T-7
SUDAN
Third Education Project
Ministry of Education - Expenditure 1980/81*
Enrollment      Expenditure       Unit Cost
LSmillions         LS
1.  Ministry of Education
A.  Recurrent Expenditures
General Administration                                                     12.23
Primary Education                                    1,485,996             82.84        56.
Secondary Intermediate                                 283,572             32.25       114.
Secondary Academic                                      85,793             17.76       207.
Secondary Technical                                     15,574              3.24       208.
Teacher Training                                         6,566              2.84       432.
Universities                                            10,941             26.30    2,404.
Higher Institutes                                        2,992              8.90    2,975.
Other (Adult Education)                                                     0.60
Total Recurrent Expenditure in Education                                  186.96
Share in Total Central Govt. Recurrent Exp.                               22.1%
B.  Development Expenditure in Education                                        6.00
Share of Total Central Govt. Dev. Exp.                                      2.1%
C.  Total Expenditure in Education                                            192.96
Share in Total Central Govt. Expenditure                                   17.0%
Share in GNP                                                                3.6%
Source: Ministry of Education Planning Division and Council of Higher Education,
Statistics Division.
* Expenditures in some relatively small training programs outside the control
of the Ministry of Education could not be included due to lack of data.



SUDAN
Third Education Project
Expenditure on Higher Education (in LS)
1980/81 to 1982/83
1980/81                               1981/82                                      1982/83
Enrollment    Total         Unit    Enrollment        Total          Unit       Enrollment    Total              Unit
Expend-    Cost                       Expend-        Cost                       Expend-          Cost
iture                                 ture                                      ture
in LS                                 in LS                                     in LS
No.        millions    LS            No.          millions        LS            No.        millions           LS
1. Recurrent Expenditure
a) Administration and General                              3.4                                    3-5                                     9.3 1/
Salaries                                                0.5                                   0.6                                      5.1
Other Expenditure (Chapter 2)                           2.9                                   2.9                                      4.2
b) Universities (4)                       10941           26.3        2403.8       11636         37.5           3222.8        11985      45.3               3779.7
Salaries                                              14.1         1288.7                    23.5           2019.6                    26.5              2211.1
Other expenditure (chapter 2)                         12.2         1115.1                    14.0           1203.2                    18.8              1568.6
c) Higher Institutes                       2992            8.9        2974.6        3402          7.7           2263.4         4031       9.2               2282.3
Salaries                                                3.4        1136.4                     2.1            617.3                     5.3              1314.8
Other Expenditure (Chapter 2)                           5.5        1838.2                      5.6          1646.1                     3.9               967.5
Pblytechnic (as part of (c))          (1892)          (3.6)       (1902.7)     (1855)        (4.9)         (2641.5)       (2384)      (4.0)            (1677.9)
Salaries                                              (2.2)       (1162.7)                   (3.1)         (1671.2)                   (2.1)             (880.9)  W
Other expenditure (chapter2)                          (1.4)        (740.0)                   (1.8)          (970.3)                   (1.9)             (797.0)
of which boarding and
students welfare                                     ((0.7))      ((367.8))                 ((0.8))        ((627.5))                ((0.9))            ((477.8))
Recurrent Expenditure on Higher
Education-Total                                        38.6                                  48.7                                     63.8
2. Development Expenditures
a) Administration and General                              *                                      *                                       *
b) Universities (4)                                        2.8                                    2.7                                     3.7
c) Higher Institutes                                       006
of which Polytechnic                                   (0.2)                                 (0.2)                                    (0.3)
Development Expenditure on Higher
Education-Total                                         3.3                                    3.3                                     4.3
Total Expenditure on Higher Education                  41.9                                  52.0                                     68.1
1/  Includes cost of local phase of job evaluation in a once and for all expenditure.
Assumptions:  (1) Enrollment:  1982/83 enrollment is estimated as follows, Universities to have grown at 3%  over what it was in 1981/82.                         m x
Enrollment at Higher Institutes except Polytechnic remains at its 1981/82 level, Enrollment at Polytechnic was actual.
cn
* Less than 0.05.
Source: Council of Higher Education: Statistics Division.



- 36 -
SUDAN III                            Annex 1
Table T-9
Third Education Project
Expenditure Vocational Training Centers
1982/83
1.  Northern (5)                         Expenditure          Enrollment       Unit Cost
A.  Recurrent Expenditure                      LS                                 LS
(i)  Chapter 1.                          467,680
(ii)  Chapter 2.                          120,165
Total Recurrent Expendi:ure               587,845          3,042                193.2
B. Chapter 3 Development Budget              594,000
C. Total Expenditure                       1,181,845
2. Multi Service Training Center
Juba
A. Recurrent Expenditures
Administration & General                  16,000
Instructors                               26,000
Others                                    24,000
Boarding Cost                             11,000
School materials                          15,000
Fuel                                      51,500
Other Expenditure                         45,000
Total Recurrent Expenditure              188,600              61              3091.8
B.  Capital Expenditure                      502,500
(i) Local Contribution                       177,500
ii) External Contribution                    325,000
C.  Total Expenditure MSTC                   691,100
3.  Total Expenditure (6 VTCs)              1872,945
Notes 1 These figures are estimates provided to the mission by the Labor Department in
Khartoum and the Multi Service Training Center in Juba.
2  Chapter 1 is mainly salaries and wages.
Chapter 2 also contains salaries of instructors on the evening shift but
are mostly used for minor expenditure, food, purchase of equipment etc.
3  Chapter 3 is the Development budget.



SUDAN - EDUCATION III
SI'IMARY OF TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE IN MAN/MONTHS
VTC      VTC      VTC   VTC    VTC            TTI     TTI                 PLAN.
TECHNICAL                               POLY-    DOL    DOL  KHARTOUM  KHARTOUM            WAD   PORT  MTC              BAKHT   PRE-INV.  DPT.
ASSISTANCE                          M/M TECHNIC KHARTOUM JUBA T-UPGRAD. II-APPR. KOSTI MEDANI SUDAN JUBA  MARIDI ERRUDA  STUDY               MOE   PIU
Senior Technical Advisor                 27   10        12       5
Vocational Training Advisor              12               6      6
Expert in Inventory/Stores                3               3
Expert in Mechanical Maintenance          3               3
Expert in Trade Testing                   6               3      3
Expert in MES-training Concepts          18    4         8       6
Expert in MES-instructor training        12    6          4      2
Expert in Metrology                      12   12
Expert in Mech./Engin.-Manufacture    12    5                           2                   2    1             2
Expert in Mech./Engin.-Power              8    6                         .5        .5             .5             .5
Expert in Electrical Engineering         12    5                        2                   2    1             2
Expert in Electronic Engineering         16    8                                  4                       4
Expert in Building Technology             9    6                                  2                             1
Expert in Air Cond./Refrigeration        18    6                                                          6    6
Expert in Agromechanics                  18    3                                            9    3              3
Expert in Adult/Rural Education          24                                                                            24
Expert in Womens Programs                24                                                                            24
Expert in Teacher Training               24                                                                            24
Expert in Program Evaluation              6                                                                             6
Expert in Teacher Training (IREC
Program)                                 24                                                                                     24
Expert in Program Evaluation              6                                                                                      6
Expert in Vocational Training             6                                                                                               6
Expert in Technical Education             6                                                                                               6
Expert in Computers                       3                                                                                                        3
Expert in Project Implementation         36                                                                                                               36
Expert in Accountancy                    24                                                                                                               24
Total of Technical Assistance           369    71        39     22      4.5       6.5      13    5.5    10   14.5    78         30       12        3      60
a x
c).
0D 



SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Summarx Account by Project Component
(SUDANESE POUND)
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                     INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                                         Physical
CENTERS        TEOCKER TRAINING INSTITUTES --------------------------------  PREINVESThENT                                    Contingencies
POLYTECHNIC--------------------- ---------------------------                          PLANNING,   STUDY AND PILOT    PROJECT                     ---------------
KHARTOUM   NORTH YTCS SOUTH VTCS   BAKHT-ER-RUDA    MARIDI   NORTH DL  SOUTH DL  DEP, MOE I C         SCHEME       ADMINISTRATION   Total        %     Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
_ _ _____ ___ __
A. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                          1409400    895,750      80.000                -            -          -         -             -                -               -   1,116,150 10.0    111,615
SITE DEVELOPMENT                       42.120    380,250      431344                -            -          -         -             -                                -     465,714 10.0      46,571
CONSULTANT SERVICES                     18.252    1279600     12,334                -            -          -         -                                              -     158,186 10,0      15,819
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                    200,772  1,403,600    135,678                 -            -          -         -             -                                -   1,740,050 10.0    174,005
B. FURNITURE                               11t232     22,475           -                -           -          -         -             -                                -      33,707 10.0       3,371
C. EQUIPMENT                           4,8389600  2,864,693    768,137           260,000      260,000   109,850   122,525              -       1,170,000                -  10,393,805 10.0  1,039,381
D, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EXPERTS                               769,600    427,700    157,300           325,000      845,000   455,000   237,900              -         130,000         650,000   3,997,500 10.0    399,750
FELLOWSHIPS                                  -     65,000           -               -            -          -    16,250        32,500                -               -     113,750 10.0      11,375
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            769,600    492,700    157,300          325,000      845,000   455,000   254,150         32,500          130,000        650,000   4,111,250 10.0    411,125
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     5,82O0204  4,783,468  1,061l115          585,000   1,105,000   564,850   376,675          32,500       1,300,000         650,000  16,278,812 10.0  1,627,881         x
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND CONSUMABLES                    -    408,000    408,000                -            -          -         -             -                -               -     816,000 10.0      81,600
B. INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                  358,020           -           -                                                                                                -     358,020 10.0      35,802
C. OPERATION EXPENDITURES PIU                  -          -           -               -            -          -                       -                         650,000      650,000 10.0      65,000
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        358,020    408,000    408,000                 -           -          -         -             -                -        650,000   1,824,020 10.0    182,402
Total BASELINE COSTS                       6,178,224  5,191,468  1,469,115           585,000   1,105,000   564,850   376,675          32,500       1,300,000       100,000  18,102,832 10.0  1,810,283
Physical Contingencies                     617,822    519,147    146,912           58,500      110,500    56,485    37,667          3,250          130,000        130,000   1,810,283  0.0            0
Price Contingencies                     4.428.871  3,545,579  1,161,852           366,237      693,381   344,799   228,772         24,134         809,759         884.323  12,487,706  9.1  1,135,246
Total PROJECT COSTS                       11.224,918  9M256,194  29777,879         1,009,737   1,908,881   966,134   643,114          59.884       2,239,759?      2,314.323  32,400,822  9.1  2,945,529   
Taxes                                     202,630    222,739    118,978             4,478        4,478     1,794      2,037             -          20,150         115,207      692,489  9.1      62,954      m x
Foreign Exchange                         9,706,698  6,934,241  1,700,962          989,058   1.888,202   957,752   633,635          59,884       2,146,706       1,292,429  26,309,569  9.1  2,391,779        I
Februarx 13, 1984  15:13



Annex 1
- 39 -                           Table T-12
ESTIIIATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Sudanese pounds              US$
(millions)                (millions)
Local   Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total   %
Civil Works
Construction                   0.45   0.67   1.12    0.35    0.51    0.86    6.2
Site development               0.19   0.28   0.47    0.15    0.21    0.36    2.6
Professional Services          0.13   0.03   0.16    0.10    0.02    0.12    0.8
Sub-Total                      0.77   0.98   1.75    0.60    0.74    1.34    9.6
Furniture and Equipment
Furn4ture                      0.01   0.02   0.03    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.3
Equipment                      0.52   9.87  10.39    0.39    7.60    7.99   57.4
Sub-Total                     0.53   9.89  10.42    0.40    7.61    8.01   57.6
Technical Assistance
Specialists                     -     4.00   4.00       -       3.08    3.08   22.1
Fellowships                     -     0.11   0.11       -       0.09    0.09    0.6
Sub-Total                       -     4.11   4.11       -       3.17    3.17   22.7
Institutional Support
Instructor Training 1/        0.73   0.08   0.81        0.56   0.07    0.63    4.5
(Kht. Polytechnic)
Instructor Training 2/        0.31   0.05   0.36        0.24   0.04    0.28    2.0
(VTCs -In-service)
Project Administration         0.58   0.07   0.65       0.45   0.05    0.50    3.6
Sub-Total                      1.62   0.20   1.82       1.25   0.16    1.41   10.1
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS          2.92  15.18  18.10       2.25  11.68   13.93  100.0
Contingencies
(a) Physical (10%)            0.29   1.52   1.81        0.22   1.17    1.39
(b) Price (22%)               2.88   9.61  12.49        0.83   2.50    3.33
Sub Total                      3.17  11.13  14.30       1.05   3.67    4.72
Total Project Cost             6.09  26.31  32.40       3.30   15.35   18.65
1/ Re: Para. 4.07
2/ Re: Para. 4.03



- 40 -
SUDAN                           Annex 1
Table T-13
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
FY       Quarter         Disbursements         Disbursements           Balance
85           1                0.8                   0.8                  14.6
2                0.4                   1.2                  14.2
3                0.4                   1.6                  13.8
4                0.6                   2.2                  13.2
86           1                0.8                   3.0                  12.4
2                1.0                   4.0                  11.4
3                1.2                   5.2                  10.2
4                1.2                   6.4                   9.0
87           1                1.2                   7.6                   7.8
2                1.2                   8.8                   6.6
3                1.6                  10.4                   6.0
4                1.6                  12.0                   3.4
88           1                1.2                  13.2                   2.2
2                1.0                  14.2                   1.2
3                0.8                  15.0                   0.4
4                0.4                  15.4



SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Education System
PRIMARY                     -INTERMEDIATE                     SECONDARY                                        HIGHER                |
ACADEMIC                           PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
FIPRE-  CHOO L S
TECHNICAL'                          INTERMEDIATE TEACHER TIRAINING
1    2    3      4   5      6          1    2      3AGRICULTURE
KORANIC OR                                                       4{UIEST
SCHOOLS                                                            COMMERCIA
_43e _0 _D      _            F'~~~~~ROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES 
FORMAL
SYSTEM                                                                                                INDUSl
Legend:V  HIGHER TIECHNICAL INSTITUTES
O   Selection Point
, Entry Point to Labor Force
* High Technical Secondary School (HTSS)
PRIMARY TEACHER TIRAINING
* * Being Phased Out
To be Supported under Third Education Project
VOCATIONAL TIRAINING
ONLY FOR HTSS
13                14   15       16      17     18      19 -.- GRADUATES
1    2    3    4   5        6           7    8    9                  10   11   12                        13   14      15      16      17      18
SCHOOL YEARR                              l    I                                    l                                    111111
7    8    9    10   11   12            13   14   15                  16   17   18                        19   20      21      22      23     24
19                 20   21      22     23      24      25 _ONLY FOR HTSS
GRADUATES               -sDa
NON-FORMAL                                                                                     LITERACY, YOUTH & ADULT EDUCATION PROGRAMS                                                                     I
SYSTEM
World Bank-25389



SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Central Ministry of
Education - Khartoum, 1983
Minister o   l
Education & Guidance
Under-Secretary
AdutmFinance &                              Technicl                            Teacher Training                                                                    Bakht Er PRda
dt  Admirotiod    u             Eacatiw                              & Ocardirration                               Planning l1
rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci aan - 20
-             U                                 0~~~~~~~~~~
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0
E    n    0                                                                                                       - T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"nU  ' 0Zs
Z                                                         X
Sudrce MO-E
Wanld Bank - 2564
S 
5:5



- 43 -
Annex 1
Chart C-3
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of Department of Labor (Vocatlonal Tralning Branch) - Khartoum, 1983
Department of Labor
Commissioner of Labor
Vocational Training
Branch
Director
Deputy Director
| Asst. Director |
,Asst. Director     Intutr&Asst. Director                   Asst. Director      Asst. Director       Asst. Director
ResearchtruSu iory &Vocational          Standards &       Apprenticeship &       Supplies &
Plannmng            Training         Training Centers       rTsting          In-plant Training       Materials
VJ.C.  V.T.C.                      V.T.C.              V.T.C.              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sen.,
Khartoum            Khartoum           WaFeoiKst                                 otSdnollwcer
Up-grading            Apps.                      n             Ks                PrSuaOfie
Sen.Adm.       Follow-up           Follow-up           Flo-p
Sfen r Ad.officer                       Officer              Officer
Officer,mta                           Auto + El              Civil
Source: DOL-Khortoum                                                                                   World Bank-25390



Annex 1
Chart 4
SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the National Council for
Higher Education - Khartoum, 1983
President of the Council
(Minister of Education)
I
Higher Education
Grants Committee
|University             Univeity                University      l       University             Polytechnic             Institution
|  Council   l   l      Council      l  l       Councii  l       l      Council                 Council
Source: MOE
World Bonk-25648



SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Years            1984                    1985                  1986                   1987              1988
Quarters   1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4      1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4      1    2    3    4
Polytechnic & VTCs
Survey of existing                                 SSS   SSS
facilities
Civil Works (1.3)                                                   +++  +++    TTT  TTT   XXX XXX   XXX  XXX  VVV  VVV   VVV
Furniture & Equipment (6.7)                                         +++  +.+    +++  TTT   TTT XXX   XXX  XXX  XXX  VVV   VVV  VVV
Expert Services (189 mm)                              1   444 555   444  444    333  333   333 666   999  998  777  222   222 222
Fellowships (30 mm)                                                       222    222  333   333
MOE
Fellowships (12mm)                                                        111    111  111   111
TTIsa
Equipment (0.4)                                                                  XXX  XXX   XXX TTT   TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  WV   WV   VVV
Expert Services (108 mm)                             444  444 555   555  555    555  444   444
Preinvestment Study
Equipment (0.5)                                                           +++    +++  TTT   TTT XXX   XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  VVV  VVV   VVV
Expert Services (12 mm)                              ill  111 ill   111
Project Administration
Expert Services (60 mm)                              111  222 444   444  333    222  222   222
S - Survey
: = Appointment of consultants
+ = Design and preparation of tender documents
T  = Tendering, bid evaluation and contract awarding
X  = Construction, manufacturing, delivery
V  = Guarantee period                                                                                                                                  e x
1 = One manmonth of expert services or fellowship



SUDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS FOR EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES MONITORING
A. Khartoum Polytechnic
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                 HOW MEASURED                  WHEN MEASURED                 BASELINE DATA
1.  Enroll an additional 740               Enrollment and output        Start after Credit         1982-83.  Enrollment at
students p.a. in day-diploma           data.                        effectiveness,             College of Engineering was
courses at the College of                                           reviewing gradual          670.
Engineering.                                                        enrollment
increases. At
project completion,
1988.
2.  Increase utilization of                Review of time tables        Annually and at            1982/83.  Total
workshops and laboratories up          and curricula.               project completion,        utilization of workshops
to 716 periods/week.                                                1988.                      and labs was 343 weekly
periods.                         a
3.  Increase student/teacher ratio         Enrollment and               Start checking             1982/83.  Student/teacher
to 11:1 and reduce number of           teacher data.                gradual changes after   ratio was 4.4:1 and
teaching staff to 131.                                              credit                     teaching staff was 152.
effectiveness.
At project
completion,
1988.
4.  Train about 250 VTC instructors    Enrollment in                    Annually and at            1983.  There was no
p.a. and upgrade existing              Instructor Training          completion, 1988.          instructor training or
instructors, in the Depart.            courses.  No. of                                        upgrading.
of Technical Education.               upgrading course
p.a. Review
instructors training
needs with DOL & VTC
officials.
0
-Ln



B. Vocational Training
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                     HOW MEASURED                WHEN MEASURED                BASELINE DATA
1.  In 6 VTCs, reduce enrollment in    Enrollment and output           Start checking in          1983.  Aprenticeship
apprenticeship courses to             data.  Adoption of           1987 gradual changes    enrollment was 2,872,
1,585, enrol  2,683 trainees to    MES approach.                   in enrollment and         short courses 231, total
reach a total, full-capacity                                       training approach.         3,103.  Output was over
enrollment of over 4,000.                                          Annually after 1988.    1,400 and 460
Output of over 700 and 6,000                                                                  respectively.  There were
from apprenticeship and MES                                                                   no MES courses.
courses respectively.
2.  Introduction of about 23 new           DOLs and  site              As above.                  1983.  There were 48 trade
trade specialties, up to a            visits.                                                 specialties.
total of about 70.
3.  Increase number of instructors         Instructors data.           Start checking in          1983.  There were 239
up to 400                                                          1987.  Full increase    instructors.
should be reached by
1989.                                                      _
now
x
0



C. Teacher Training Institutes
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                        HOW MEASURE                  WHEN MEASURED                  BASELINE DATA
1.  Prepare an integrated rural              Review work of                 Start reviewing at          1983.  Various activities
adult education program for the          project financed              beginning of  1985.         had been carried out on an
IRECs, and related material, at    experts in adult                    Continue till about         experimental basis.
Maridi and Bakt er Ruda TTI.             education and                 end of 1986.
programs for women,
at Maridi and Bakt er
Ruda TTI. Review
full IREC program.
2.  Finalize IREC Teacher Training           Review curricula               Start reviewing at          1983.  Teachers Training
curricula and related material.    and material prepared               beginning of 1985.          initiated at both TTIs.
with experts                  Curricula and               No firm curriculum
assistance at                 material should be          however, existed.
BAkht-er-Ruda and             finalized by end of
Maridi TTIs.                  1985.
Go
3.  Evaluation of IREC experimental    Review evaluation                    Start reviewing first    1983.  No scientific
programs carried out so far.            work done at TTI's             evaluation results          evaluation existed.
Prepare evaluation report.               by evaluation                 beginning of 1985.
specialists.                  Final results should
be ready by mid 1985,
to be utilized by
IREC adult education
and Teacher Training
experts.
X (D
0



D.  Pre-Investment Study
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES               HOW MEASURED                  WHEN MEASURED                 BASELINE DATA
Prepare thorough study on HTSS       Review work on 15           Start reviewing about   1983.  No scientific
(industrial) and VATC:  status       industrial HTSS and         end of 1984 through       evaluatiP  existed.
of facilities, adequacy of           the VATCs by the two        first quarter of          Statistics by UNESCO
curricula/courses, equipment.        project financed            1985.                      (Dec. 1982)  especially on
Trace graduates and evaluate         experts (analysis of                                  HTSS.
their employability.                 present status,
interviews with
graduates and actual
and potential
employers). Review
final report which
should have
operational
recommendations for
the reform of the two
institutions.
'Id
LI'
rD¢
Ln



E. Institutional Support
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                  HOW MEASURED                   WHEN MEASURED            BASELINE DATA
1.  Enable Planning Department of          Planning Dept.,               End of 1985 and            1983. No training existed.
MOE to carry out training of           MOE.  Records of             periodically
regional staff.                        courses and                  afterwards.
participants.
2.  Enable Planning Dept., MOE, to         Planning Dept.,               Mid 1985.                  1983.  Limited data
improve planning of education,         MOE.  Handling and           Periodically               available, especially on
and handling of regional               storing system,              afterwards.                 expenditures and
education data.                        especially                                               examinations results.
expenditures, and
examinations results.
Visits to VTBs and           Beginning of 1985.         1983.  Very weak
3.  Enable DOL, Khartoum and Juba,         VTCs.  Check testing         Periodically                coordination and
to strengthen planning,                and certification            afterwards.                monitoring.
coordination and monitoring of         system; recording and
vocational training.                   inventory of training
activities system;
material and supply                                                                       C
section of DOL Kht.
00
t_n
oN 
U, r
0
u,



- 51 -
SUDAN                            Annex 3
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and ManDower in Sudan
A.1  "Sudan Education Sector Memorandum".  World Bank, October 31,
1977.
A.2  "Report of Sudan Education Sector Review".  Sudan Ministry of
Education - 1977.
A.3  'Finance and Budgets of Higher Education in the Sudan,
1975-1980". The National Council for Higher Education - March,
1982.
A.4  'Survey of Educational Expenditures on Public Education in
Selected Provinces". Sudan Ministry of National Planning -
Ministry of Education. October, 1978.
A.5  "Sudan Educational Statistics, 1980/81.  Sudan Ministry of
Education and Guidance.-
A.6 (Sudan) "Education Profile". The British Council. World Bank -
1982.
A.7  "Sudan-Manpower Aspects of Sudanese Economic Development."
B. Reports Related to the Project
B.1  "The Khartoum Polytechnic/NEWI Link".  Tne British Council - 1981.
B.2  Draft Paper on Khartoum Polytechnic - 1982.
B.3  Reconnaissance Mission Report".  UNESCO December '82.
B.4  "Report on the Pre-Investment Mission on Vocational Training in
Sudan ILO January, 1982.
B.5  "A Study of the Khartoum Polytechnic and ODA Financed Link with
the NEWI of Higher Education. The British Council - 1983.
B.6  Project Preparation Mission Report for Third Education Project.
UNESCO, Mtarch 1983.
B.7  Request by the Minister of Education, Southern Region - March,
1983.
C. Working Papers and Tables






IBRD 17348
25'                                            3O,05                                                                     AUGUST MSR
SUDAN                                                    ARAB   REULI                                  F   EGYPT
EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                             
ITO      2~                    I                                                                      KK                        REDEER
o      iso           TOOST~~2C MLESI                                                                                                                              O
N O0RTH                 RNStation no 10                                             /Por Sudan
Dongol0 
o                                                                                                              Kansala~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Abl
NORTHLNO  TER                                                             KL Nf
K                              KOR   DORA   N                  E ~~~   GE?    WodMadan~~\                                 o
KOR00FAN                             ~~~~~~~~~~~d Gedaref0
)                                 <I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El Obe,dKot
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zuI
Nyalc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
DA R FUR                                        oo.l
C ENTRAL                          ""UPE
AFRICAN                                             --                                                 MoklJ
RE PUBLIC                                                                                                                                     VocaNt/onaE TreeingCetr
BAHR  EL            K                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teache, Troining  nstit,,tes
~~ nir  ~~~~~~o,ni  r~~~~~~~  "'5              I                                 f                    0 ~~~~~~~~Selected To-ns
OHA  ZAL"                                                         P"oin,)Bo,do R
~~                 C                                      EL     ~ ~ ~           ONOL    El             N~~~~~-      --   Pro acidZ  j     Bo-ad-es
25~~  ~  ~          ~~-   BUHLEYRA T
ARAB'AI
LIT  I       ARARA
REP OF ICAARI                                                                             Bor
EG>/                                                                                EASTERNTER
>~~~~~         -v  ~~~~~~EQUA TOR/A    ( 
CHiAT        KRiOi, EE                                                              rd                 J.ba EQUA               -   I
>- 'ENT EAL\ 
AF RICAN' REP-/Z A                                                 RKY                                                                                             A
>~~~~~~MA~~~~IAZ A IR                        E                                           ND  A'N                                 Y 
Z A R E                NYA r                                                                       UGA            DA 
CuOG                fGOAtNDAKE          7                                                30' 



