OFFICIAL     SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF 11 SU
[jCUMENTS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                             , 1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF 11 SU
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           AA        -        , 1984, between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by certain members of the
International Development Association.
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to five million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,200,000) (hereinafter called the IDA
Credit); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Fund referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(c) "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;
(d) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(f) "Special Account" "means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02, (c) of this
Agreement;
(g) "Project Advance Account" means the account to be
opened and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
(h) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
by the Borrower in its Ministry of Education and Guidance; and
(i) "Sudanese Pound" and "LS" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an        amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the


﻿-4-
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fuxnd Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may, from time to time, be designated
or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1994
and ending February 1, 2034, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 2004 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educa-
tional practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall open
and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a
Project Advance Account and shall deposit therein: (i) an initial
amount of seventy thousand Sudanese Pounds (LS 70,000); and (ii)
by September 1, 1984, an amount of one hundred thousand Sudanese
Pounds (LS 100,000). The Borrower shall, every six months after
the date of effectiveness of this Agreement, deposit therein the
amount estimated to be required to cover expenditures for the
Project during the following six months period which are not to
be covered by withdrawals from the Credit Account or from the
Special Fund Credit Account.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the training and institutional support activities under
the Project, the Borrower shall employ training, accounting and
computer consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Admin-
istrator, such consultants to be selected in accordance with


﻿-6-
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981; provided, however, that the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement shall apply to the employment of such consultants and
that the said Guidelines shall be read as containing the said
restrictions.
(b) In addition to the consultants referred to above, the
Borrower shall also employ architectural and engineering consul-
tants in accordance with paragraph (a) above in order to assist
the Borrower in the preparation of designs, bidding documents and
the supervision of construction of the facilities included in the
Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services finan-
ced out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Ad-
ministrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their use in the Proj-
ect; (ii) enable the Administrator's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Special Fund Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all such


﻿-7-
information   as  the  Administrator   shall  reasonably   request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Administrator of their respective obligations under
the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Fund Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall until the completion of the
Project:
(a) maintain the PIU in existence, with appropriate powers
as required to enable it to carry out its responsibilities for
the execution of the Project; and
(b) ensure that the positions of project director, assis-
tant project director and accountant of PIU be filled with
staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Administrator.
Section 3.06. Not later than September 1, 1984, the Borrower
shall enter into an agreement, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Administrator, with an experienced organization,
agency or consulting firm in order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out Parts A, B and D of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than July 31, 1985, submit to the Administra-
tor a plan satisfactory to the Administrator, outlining its
proposals to achieve an enrollment target of about 1,400 day-time
students in diploma courses at the College of Engineering of the
Khartoum Polytechnic by July 31, 1988, and to maintain such level
thereafter; and


﻿-8 -
(b) implement such measures as contained in the plan
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) submit to the Administrator for its approval the
training programs to be selected for the fellowships provided
under the Project; and
(b) award the fellowships to suitably qualified candidates
in accordance with criteria for selection and award acceptable to
the Administrator.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIU to maintain
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
cause PIU to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Special Fund Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Special
Fund Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure;
and (iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause PIU to: (i) have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Special Account
and the Project Advance Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in
any case not later than twelve months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator


﻿shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit
withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The BorrGwer shall cause each of the training
institutions involved in the Project to carry out its operations
and manage its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, technical and educational policies and practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the buildings and equipment of the training
institutions constructed or rehabilitated under the Project to
be adequately maintained and cause all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof to be made; and
(b) establish appropriate administrative and financial
procedures for the purpose of such maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall provide suitably trained
teachers and administrators in adequate numbers for each of the
training institutions constructed or rehabilitated under the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the IDA Credit shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or


﻿- 10 -
(ii) the IDA Credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date     Ow           I, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sectfon 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of


﻿- 11 -
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of Sudan
Cable address:                     Telex:
EIMAR                              3324
Khartoum
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
By           WIkkA, S~. EAS.SoL,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
By       i!W~            Ji&a
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                550,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
45% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Furniture,
equipment and
vehicles:
(a) excluding items     5,980,000      ( 100% of foreign
under Part G.2                     ( expenditures, 100%
of the Project                     ( of local expendi-
( tures (ex-factory
(b) under Part G.2        870,000      ( cost) and 65% of
of the Project                     ( local expenditures
( for other items
( procured locally
(3) Consultants' services       100,000        100% of foreign
referred to in Sec-                      expenditures and
tion 3.02 (b) of                         45% of local ex-
this Agreement                           penditures
(4) Initial deposit            480,000        Amount due under
in Special                               Section 2.02 (c)
Account                                  of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated              1,620,000
TOTAL              9,600,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II
member of IDA or (B) a Part I member of IDA which fulfills the
conditions set forth in paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund
Resolution on the date of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, as
determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments for expen-
ditures made prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) pay-
ments made for expenditures under Category 2(b) before the
Administrator has approved the findings of the study to be under-
taken pursuant to Part G.1 of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,


﻿- 15 -
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's main objectives are to meet the Borrower's
most pressing needs for trained manpower and to improve its
primary and adult education system in rural areas. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Khartoum Polytechnic
1.   Extension and renovation of existing facilities of the
College of Engineering.
2.   Acquisition of new equipment and rehabilitation of
existing equipment for the workshops and laboratories.
3.   Strengthening of the instructor training programs.
Part B:   Support for Vocational Training Centers (Khartoum I,
Khartoum II, Wad Medani, Kosti, Port Sudan, MTC-Juba)
1.   Extension and renovation of existing facilities of the
vocational training centers.
2.   Acquisition  of  new   equipment  (including  vehicles,
generators, audio-visual equipment and training software) and
rehabilitation of existing instructional equipment.
3.   Strengthening  of  the vocational   training  at these
centers through, inter alia, the provision of fellowships for
overseas training of instructors.
Part C:   Teacher Training Institutes
Support of the Integrated Rural Education Center program
(including an evaluation of the pilot programs) and strengthening
of the teacher training programs at the Maridi and Bakht er Ruda
institutes.
Part D:   Departments of Labor
Strengthening of the planning, coordinating and monitoring
capabilities of the Vocational Training Branch and the Vocational
Training Section of the departments in Khartoum and Juba, respec-
tively.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:   Ministry of Education and Guidance
Strengthening of the Ministry's Department of Planning and
Strategy through, inter alia:
(a) the provision of about 9 man-months of fellowships; and
(b) the acquisition of a small computer and related soft-
ware.
Part F:   Project Administration
Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of Education and Guidance.
Part G:   Pre-investment Study and Pilot Scheme
1.   A study evaluating the present status and objectives
of the fifteen High Technical Secondary Schools and the eight
Vocational Artisan Training Centers.
2.   Re-equipping of these schools and centers, as identi-
fied in the study referred to above, on a pilot basis.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 30,
1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C
hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980
edition) (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall
be stated in the tender or prequalification documents for the
procurement of such goods and civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Bor?cower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon a.s possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or work, remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) r-ustoms duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bid.s; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditu?:es incidental to the delivery of


﻿- 19 -
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sudan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sudan
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this


﻿- 20 -
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as
a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Administrator; provided, however, that the aggregate
price of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,000,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for civil works which the Administrator agrees
cannot be grouped due to the small size and nature of the work
involved may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Administrator; provided, however, that the aggregate price of
the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,700,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 21 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if


﻿- 22 -
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through
(3) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (4) and to be
withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3
to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   The Administrator shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit.
Thereafter and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished
to the Administrator at such intervals as the Administrator shall
specify, the Administrator shall further so withdraw from the
Special Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
initial deposit. Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree,
each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Administrator from the Special Fund Credit Account under the
respective Categories (1) through (3), and in the respective


﻿- 24 -
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account after
the initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Admin-
istrator in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of
the Special Account such documents and other evidence as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Administrator (a) when the Administrator shall have deter-
mined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement, or (b) the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Special Fund Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (3) for
the Project, minus the amount of any qualified agreement to
reimburse made by the Administrator and of any special commitment
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to
the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit, which-
ever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Special Fund Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Special Fund
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (3) for the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify
by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Bocrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, prior to any
further deposit into the Special Account by the Administrator,


﻿- 25 -
deposit into the Special Account or, if the Administrator shall
so request, refund to the Administrator an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, refund to
the Administrator sucI amount then outstanding in the Special
Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the §eal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198I.
FOR SECRETARY


