Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7122-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
MA/Y 25, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only In the pedormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozation. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
(As of January 1989)
US$1           -    Rp 1,70w)
Rp 1 billion   -    US$0.586 million
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA AND FLN
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton             -    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)              *    0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)          -    1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)  -    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)          =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    -    1 million kilowatt hours (kWI.)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN       -    National Energy Board
BAPPENAS      -    National Development Planning Agency
DGEP          -    Directorate-General of Electric Power, Ministry of Mines
and Energy
EHV           -    Extra High Voltage
ESMAP         -    Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOI           -    Government of Indonesia
IERR          -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
JABOTABEK     -    Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi area
LMK           -    Testing and Research Center of PLN
LNG           -    Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC          -    Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS           -   Management Information System
MME           -   Ministiy of Mines and Energy
PERTAMINA     -    National Oil and Gas Company
PLN           -    State Electricity Corporation
PMAS          -    Project Management Advisory Service
PPE           -    Engineering Services Center of PLN
PUSDIKLAT     -    PLN's Center for Education and Training
RE            -    Rural Electrification
REPELITA      -    Five-Year Development Plan
ROR           -    Rate of Return



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................                             iv
I.    ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR ......................                               1
Sectoral Context .............................................                              1
Energy Resources ........ .         ...................................                     1
Institutions in the Energy  Sector ............................                             3
The Electricity  Subsector ....................................                             3
PLN's  Organization ...........................................                             3
Sector Objectives  and Priorities .............................                             4
Rationalization of Energy Prices .............................                              5
Liberalization of the Institutional Framework ................                              6
Bank Role and Strategy .......................................                              7
Bank's Earlier Operations and PLN's Performance ..............                              9
II.    THE POWER MARKET AND THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM .................                              10
The Market ...................................................                            10
Demand .......................................................                             10
PLN's Facilities .............................................                            10
Development Program ..........................................                             11
III.    THE BENEFICIARY ..............................................                              13
Institutional Development ....................................                            13
Accoun-ing and Budgeting .........................                                         15
Billing and Collection .......................................                            16
Audit and Internal Control ...................................                             16
Insurance ....................................................                            17
IV. THE PROJECT ................18 . 
Background ...................................................                            18
Rationale  for Bank  Involvement ...............................                          18
Project Objectives ...........................................                             18
Project Description ..........................................                            19
Diesel Efficiency ............................................                            19
Hydro Renovation .. 21
This report was prepared on the basis of the appraisal carried out by
V.P. Thakor (Principal Power Engineer), A. Liebenthal (Senior Energy
Economist) and S.K. Bhatnagar (Financial Analyst) in November/December 1987
and updated in February/March 1989.
This docun.ent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Distribution .................................................   22
Telecommunications                     . .                       24
Technical Assistance     ................... .   25
Thermal Power Plants                    ..                       26
Corporate PlanninZ and Financial Planning         . . .          26
Accounting                      ......  27
Cash Management                     ....   27
Cost Estimate                      ....   27
Financing Plan                      ....   29
Procurement .     .      ................................................   29
Implementation Schedule                  . . .    31
Disbursement .     .      ...............................................   31
Ecology .      .      ....................................................   31
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...........................................   32
Past Results .................................................   32
Regional Operations                    ..                        33
Financial Objectives                    ..                       34
Present and Future Performance               ..                  35
Performance Monitoring                     ..                    39
Tariffs ......................................................   39
Taxes ........................................................   40
Financing Policy                      ..                         41
Asset Revaluation                     ..                         41
VI.   JUSTIFICATION ................................................   43
Diesel Efficiency                     ..                         43
Hydro Renovation                      ..                         43
Telecommunications                    ..                         43
Distribution           .......... 44
Economic Rate of Return...                                       45
Risks ........................................................   46
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................   47
Agreements Reached          ..                ...............   47
Condition of Effectiveness                 ..                    48
Recommendations ..............................................   48



ANNEXES
Annex 1    Organization Charts
Chart 1 - M
Chart 2 - PLN
Annex 2    Growth of PLN's Consumers and Sales
Annex 3    Growth of Captive Power in Indonesia
Annex 4    Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity in Java
Annex 5    Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity Outside Java
Annex 6    Investment Program - Indonesia
Annex 7    Investment Program - Java
Annex 8    PLN:  Performance Indicators
Annex 9    Diesel Generation Efficiency Program - Cost Estimate
Annex 10   Hydro Renovation - Plant Details and Scope of Work
Annex 11   Hydro Renovation - Cost Estimate
Annex 12   Java Distribution Expansion Program
Table 1 - Scope of Work
Table 2 - Cost Estimate
Table 3 - List of Contracts
Annex 13   Discribution Management - Terms of Reference for Consulting
Services
Annex 14   Java Telecommunications - Cost Estimate
Annex 15   Corporate Planning and Financial Planning - Terms of Reference for
Consulting Services
Annex 16   Implementation Schedule
Chart 1 - Hydro Renovation
Chart 2 - Distribution Expansion Program
Chart 3 - Telecommunications
Annex 17   Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18   PLN's Financial Statements - Past Results and Forecasts
(Tables 1-10)
Annex 19   Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
Annex 20   PLN's Tariff
Table 1 - Explanation of Tariff Categories in the Basic Tariff of
Electricity, 1989
Table 2 - History of Tariff Adjustments, 1982-1989
Table 3 - Average Revenue from Electricity Sold, by Major
Consumers
Annex 21   Table 1 - PLN's Oil Consumption Statistics
Table 2 - Domestic and World Prices of Petroleum Products
Annex 22 Calculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return (Tables 1 and
2)
Annex 23   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 12453 R8
IBRD 20711



- iv -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:    State Electricity Corporation (PLN)
Amount:         US$337.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years. including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:          The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years including a grace period
of 5 years; the onlending rate will be equal to the Bank's
standard variable interest rate plus fees of 1.90X. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would support government objectives to
improve the economic, technical and institutional efficiency
of the electricity subsector and improve the welfare of the
population through the supply of electric power. Specifi-
cally, the proposed project would: (a) support a program to
improve the efficiency of operation of diesel generating
units; (b) renovate old hydro plants to extend their life and
recover derated capacity; (c) extend distribution facilities
to supply about 893,000 new consumers in Java in 1990/91 and
1991/92; (d) extend PLN's telecommunications facilities;
(e) provide technical assistance to (i) improve diesel plant
efficiency; (ii) improve operation and maintenance of steam
power plants; (iii) improve distribution system management;
(iv) strengthen corporate and financial planning functions;
and (v) improve general accounting and cash management.
Included as well will be the training of PLN's staff in the
above areas.
Risks:          There is no significant risk in the implementation of the
proposed project. The principal concern will be to avoid
delays in the implementation. Advance action has already been
initiated by PLN, for appointment of consultants and the
preparation of bid documents, to help prevent such delays.



Cost Estimate:
Local   Foreign   Total
---- (USS million) ----
Diesel Program                                      3.0       13.0      16.0
Hydro Renovation                                   14.7        6.1      20.8
Distribution                                       87.5      320.0    407.5
Telecomunications                                   3.0       11.2     14.2
Consulting Services
Hydro Renovation                                 1.0        1.4      2.4
Teleco.uunications                               1.0        2.0      3.0
Technical Assistance
Distribution Management                          1.0        3.0      4.0
Diesel Efficiency                                2.0        8.0     10.0
Corporate and Financial Planning                 0.5        1.5      2.0
Accounting and Cash Management                   0.5        1.5      2.0
Total Base Cost                                   114.2      367.7    481.9
Physical Contingency                             5.7       18.4     24.1
Price Contingency                               12.0       38.5     50.5
Total Project Cost /a                             131.9      424.6    556.5
Interest During Construction                         -        40.5     40.5
Total Financing Required                       131.9      465.1    597.0
Financing Plan:
Government of the Netherlands                        -        20.0     20.0
IBRD                                                         337.0    337.0
Cofinaiicing                                         -        67.6     67.6
PLN                                               131.9       40.5    172.4
Total                                          131.9      465.1    597.0
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY             1990     1991      1992    1993    1994    1995
------------------(US$ million)---------------
Annual                1.0     65.0    125.0    97.0    45.0       4.0
Cumulative            1.0     66.0    191.0   288.0   333.0   337.0
Rate of Return:  The IERR ranges from 152 to 322 for the hydro renovation and
182 for PLN's investment program, of which the distribution
component of the project is a part.
/a   The costs are inclusive of taxes and duties, estimated to be USC12.9
million equivalent.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Sectoral Context
1.1      Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil, gas,
coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Since the country depends on oil for
a major part of its exports, and its earnings therefrom have been declining
since 1981, a major objective of the Government's energy policy has been to
maintain the level of export earnings by diversification of domestic energy
consumption away from heavy reliance on petroleum products (which account for
88Z of commercial energy consumption" towards alternative fuels for which
there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or which are nontradeable
(hydropower and geothermal). The power subsector is playing a central role in
this respect. It offers the most important market for the alternative fuels,
and promotes their development in such a way as to take advantage of economies
of scale in infrastructure. Electricity also substitutes petroleum fuels in
industrial and domestic usage.
Energy Resources
1.2      Oil.  Indonesia's resources of original oil-in-place have been esti-
mated at about 70 billion barrels, and the proven remaining recoverable
reserves at about 8-10 billion barrels. Though production had reached a peak
of 1.7 million barrels per day in 197', as a result of the gradual depletion
of reserves and, since 1983, OPEC production quotas, production declined to
&oout 1.3 million barrels per day in 1987, and is expected to continue at
about 1.1-1.3 million barrels per day until the year 2000.
1.3      Natural Gas.  The estimated proven remaining natural gas reserves are
about 80 trillion cubic feet (TCF) 1/ of which 902 is nonassociated and can be
developed independently of oil. However, major reserves are generally located
away from population and industrial centers. The Arun field in North Sumatra
has 14 TCF and Natuna in the South China Sea, 41 TCF. About 5.0 TCF of
reserves are proven offshore Java of which about 2.7 TCF are in the East and
2.3 TCF are in the West. Production of natural gas reached 1.7 TCF in 1987.
Half of this was exported as liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Japan from Arun
and Badak. LNG production was about 16.8 million tons in 1987.2/ Domestic
consumption is only about 0.3 TCF/year at present but is expected to grow
rapidly through the 1990s as reserves on and offshore Java are developed and
the power sector becomes a major consumer. A major issue that the GOI is
currently addressing to facilitate this development is the formulation of a
1/ 1 TCF of gas = 175.7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
2/ 1 ton of LNG = 8.8 barrels of oil equivalent.



- 2 -
pricing ,iolicy that would encourage gas producers to develop the resource and
the power sector and other consumers to use gas in lieu of petroleum products.
1.4      Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be as high as 25
billion tons,3/ mostly located in Sumatra and Kalimantan. While production is
currently 2.7 million tons per year. major increases are planned by GOI. Work
on a three million ton-per-year mine at Bukit Asam and on a 0.6 million ton-
per-year mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal field is nearing completion.
Proven reserves in this area are over 600 million tons. A program to raise
the coal production at Ombilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year,
mainly for export, is also being implemented by GOI. In addition, in 1981,
GOI entered into a number of production-sharing agreements with private
foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for the exploratio.a and exploi-
tation of coal reserves in Kalimantan. Coal reserves already def4.ned by these
contractors and expected to be economically recoverable amount to about 700
million tons. The South Sumatra and Kalimantan coals have the potential for
sustaining a large program of coal-fired power generation in the country and
also provide for exports.
1.5      Hydropower.  Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are large but
development is limited by their geographic distribution relative to demand.
The greatest potential (over 35Z) lies in Irian Jaya where the de' nd is less
than 1? of total domestic demand, while Java, which accounts for c0Z of elec-
tricity consumption, has less than 1OZ of the total potential. Ex4isting
hydroelectric installations aggregate to 2,807 MW; they are mostly located in
Java (1,840 MW), Sumatra (736 MW), and Sulawesi (203 MW). Schemes with an
aggregate capacity of about 300 MW are currently under construction. The
State Electricity Corporation (PLN), has carried out a systematic countrywide
resource survey, that has produced an inventory of hydroelectric sites. The
survey is being followed up with various prefeasibility and feasibility
studies of the promising hydroelectric sites.
1.6      Geothermal.  Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are found on
all islands except Kalimantan. Several sites have been investigated and one,
Kamojang in West Java, has been developed. It is believed that potential
reserves may approach 10,000 MW, distributed as follows: Java, 5,500 MW;
Sulawesi 1,400 MW; Sumatra 1,100 MW; other islands 2,000 MW. GOI initiated
development of the Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 MW generating set was
commissioned in 1983, and the expansion of the station by 110 MW, was
completed in 1987. Further development potential exists in Kamojang. In
1982, PERTAMINA (The National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint opera-
tion contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of California,
for development of the Salak field in West Java. A potential of over 200 MW
has been proven by exploration. Also, PERTAMINA has explored geothermal
fields in the Dieng and Drajat areas in Java, which appear promising for
further development. A decision has been taken to develop the Salak and
Drajat fields to the extent of 110 MW each, during the next five years.
3/ 1 ton of coal = 4.3 barrels of oil equivalent.



-3-
Institutions ir. the Energy Sector
1.7      The principal agency responsible for implementing government policies
in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MM3).  MME was
established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy sector and
control the three state enterprises responsible for the execution of govern-
ment policies in the energy subsectors; PERTAMINA for oil and gas, P.N.
Batubara for coal, and PLN for electricity. Other ministries and agencies are
also involved in the sector; for example, the Ministry of Public Works
primarily deals with hydropower resource surveys, the Ministry of Agriculture
oversees forestry products, and the National Atomic Energy Commission is
responsihle for nuclear development. In order to ensure appropriate coordina-
tion of energy policy, the GOI established an interministerial National Energy
Board (BAKOREN) to oversee sectoral development. BAKOREN is supported by a
Technical Committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in different
departments, chaired by the Director General of Electric Power and New Energy
(DGEP). The organization chart of the MME is shown in Annex 1, Chart 1.
The Electricity Subsector
1.8      The electricity subsector is regulated by MME through the Director
General of Electric Power and New Energy (DGEP). The subsector comprises:
(a) PLN, the State Electricity Corporation; (b) captive plants installed by
private parties for their own use; and (c) a small number of cooperatives
which were set up to provide electricity in certain rural areas remote from
PLN supply systems. An Electricity Act was passed in 1985 ,Law No. 15). It
consolidates earlier decrees, and permits private and cooperative participa-
tion in the electricity subsector. The DGEP is the chairman of the
Supervisory Board which oversees PLN's operations and reviews PLN's investment
plans, budgets and tariffs.
PLN's Organization
1.9      PLN was established as a public corporation (Perum) under
Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning, construction
and operation of electricity supply facilities. PLN is managed by a board of
Directors headed by a President Director, who is appointed by the President
and is accountable to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The President
Director has authority for all operations of PLN. The Board currently
includes five other directors with functional responsibility, respectively,
for planning, construction, operations, finance and administration.
Operational responsibility devolves to 17 regions, and responsibility for
major construction to 12 project managers. Also reporting to the Board are
several staff units responsible for power research, education and training,
management services, an internal audit unit called the Corporation
Inspectorate, the Java system operation and control unit, and a newly estab-
lished Engineering Services Center (para. 3.7). PLN's organization chart is
shown in Annex 1, Chart 2.



- 4-
Sector Obiectives and Priorities
1.10     In view of Indonesia's rich endowment in energy resources, the main
objectives of the sector may be summarized as followst
(a) to maximize export earnings by promoting the development of
tradeable energy resources, including oil, gas and coall and
(b) to meet the country's growing energy requirements in a least cost
way, and conserve exportable petroleum reserves, by encouragii&g
the domestic market to substitute oil consumption by alternative
fuels for which there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or
which are nontradeable (hydro-power and geothermal).
The underlying developmental objective should be, of course, to improve the
welfare of the population, both directly, by keeping its energy expenses
low, and indirectly, by stimulating economic activity through the provision
of energy in a cost-effective way and the maximization of export earnings.
In this regard, a subsidiary objective has been to use the energy sector as
one of the means for reducing the developmental imbalance between urban and
rural areas, and between Java and the Outer Islands. This objective is
being pursued through the implementation of uniform countrywide prices for
petroleum products and electricity, and the promotion of rural
electrification.
1.11     The major priorities associated with the pursuit of the above
objectives are the following:
(a) in regard to export markets, the uncertainties associated with the
future level of petroleum, LNG and coal prices, as well as the
resource constraints on the economy, make it advisable to continue
with the current policy of relying on foreign investors to absorb
a major part of those risks and invest in the development of the
resources;
(b) in regard to domestic markets, the uncertainties associated with
the future level of demand make it advisable to improve the feasi-
bility of the relatively large infrastructure investments through
the coordinated development of coal and gas. Here also, the
resource constraints on the economy point to the need to attract
foreign investors;
(c) in regard to increasing the efficiency and reducing the costs of
the sector, it is desirable to introduce transparency in the
funding of the socially directed loss making operations and also
to introduce competitive pressure in some areas;
(d) in regard to the energy sectoi's contribution to rural develop-
ment, the very limited implementation capacity of Government
agencies in rural areas (as well as budget constraints) make it
advisable to establish a framework which would encourage the
development of community self-help and private initiatives to meet
the needs of rural areas.



As outlined in the Bank's 'Energy Options Review" (Report No. 6583-IND,
August 1987), the desirable policy framework to achieve the above
objectives and priorities would include establishment of efficient energy
prices and liberalization of the institutional framework.
Rationalization of Energy Prices
1.12     In the pricing area, the policy objective should be to minimize
distortions in domestic prices, using economic costs and netback value as
the norms. Specifically:
(a) the level of the electricity tariff needs to be maintained such as
to enable the power sector to fund a reasonable share of its
investment program through self-generated funds, and the structure
of the tariff needs to be miintained to signal to the different
classes of consumers the economic cost (i.e., LRMC) of electricity
supply (para. 5.20);
(b) the prices for pr!mary fuel resources that are nontradeable or of
which Indonesia has a nontradeable surplus (coal, natural gas and
geothermal), need to be set between a ceiling imposed by the cost
of competing fuels and a floor dictated by their own economic cost
(i.e., their LRMC); and
(c) the prices of petroleum products, particularly kerosene and
diesel, need to be adjusted to correct existing distortions in the
relation between domestic and international prices.
1.13     To assist the Government in achieving the energy pricing objec-
tives, an "Energy Pricing Policy Study" is being funded under the Gas
Distribution Project (Loan 2690-IND). Also, under the proposed project the
GOI has agreed to specific proposals for institutionalizing the process of
review of the energy prices, including the prices of petroleum fuels (LPG,
kerosene, gasoline, diesel, fuel oil), gas, geothermal steam, coal and
electricity. The proposals consist of the following:
(a) establishment of an Interdepartmental Energy Pricing Task Force to
review and to advise Government on energy prices--the Steering
Committee for the Energy Pricing Policy Study would be the core
group for this; and
(b) establishment of an Energy Pricing Unit in MME to provide analytical
support and technical data to the Task Force--the counterpart team
for the Energy Pricing Policy Study could be the core group for this.
An action plan with a time frame for the establishment of these units and
their proposed functions was agreed with the Bank during the negotiations of
the proposed loan (para. 4.3).



Liberalization of the Institutional Framework
1.14     In addition to the rationalization of energy prices, the achieve-
ment of the long-term objectives of the sector will require the liberali-
zation of the institutional framework. In the power subsector, this policy
direction can be pursued through:
(a) encouragement of the financial autonomy of PLN by reducing its depen-
dence on the Government budget, and giving it responsibility for
investment and commercial decisions; and
(b) encouragement of private sector investment in situations where it
may be able to produce electrical energy at a cost competitive with
that of PLN.
1.15     Segregated Information on Rural Electrification.  As an important
step towards financial autonomy, PLN needs to obtain a better understanding of
the costs associated with its substantial socially-directed activities (e.g.,
rural electrification), particularly in its operations outside Java. The
socially-directed activities impose a growing financial burden on PLN. To
assess the impact on its finances of such activities, PLN has agreed to insti-
tute a system for segregating information on rural electrification activities,
as a proxy for socially-directed activities (para. 5.18).
1.16     Coordination with Private Generation.  In regard to the encouragement
of private sector involvement, a first step will require the coordination of
generation between PLN and existing privately owned captive generation capa-
city, of which there are about 2,900 MW in Java and 4,600 MW in all of
Indonesia. Thus, the initial objectives would be to:
(a) enable PLN to save in the installation of reserve capacity required
for system reliability by encouraging capacity assistance agreements
between PLN and major industrial captive generation plants. About
ten such captive plant users in Java currently have an installed
generating capacity of over 1,000 MW; and
(b) encourage cogeneration by industrial units that may be able to
produce electrical energy at a cost competitive with that of PLN
by using industrial waste (e.g., wood waste, rice husks,
bagasse), combined heat and power generation (cogeneration), or for
other reasons.
1.17     For both these measures, it is necessary to prepare a suitable
regulatory framework and establish model administrative and operating agree-
ments. During the negotiations of this proposed loan the Government has
agreed to establish basic rules and regulations, covering legal, technical and
commercial aspects to captive power in coordination with PLN's system, for
mutual benefit. Draft interim rules and regulations will be prepared by
November 30, 1989. Thereafter, during an initial period of one year, pilot
projects will be used to gain experience.



-7-
Bank Role and Strategy
1.18     The above sectoral objectives have been supported through the Bank's
involvement with the electricity subsector, which has gone through three
distinct phases. In the first phase (1968-77), the Bank's work was directed
towards creating an autonomous national entity to deal w'th power supply
problems and, after PLN's creation in 1972. to help put in place procedures
and systems to manage and improve its then small-scale operations. In the
second phase (1978-84), the primary thrust of the Bank's work was to enable
PLN to rapidly expand its supply facilities and, coupled with efforts to
evolve integrated grids (particularly in Java), to take advantage of advanced
technologies to reduce supply costs. The fruits of this effort are now being
reaped with the commissioning of large power plants at Suralaya (1,600 MW),
Saguling (700 MW), and Cirata (500 MW) with an overlay of 500 kV transmission
grid. The current phase of the Bank's involvement focuses partly on contri-
buting to the financing of Indonesia's massive power programs to meet its
development needs, and even more, on building on the foundations laid in the
second phase to transform PLN into a modern and mature utility by emphasizing
institutional objectives. These objectives include greater financial
autonomy, better operating efficiency, and improved corporate and financial
planning capability. The proposed project addresses these concerns and
supports investments in distribution facilities and a package of efficiency
improvement measures (para. 4.3). In the future, the Bank will continue to
support the development of the power subsector with the objectives of (i)
improving the efficiency of PLN; (ii) enabling PLN to become more commercially
oriented and financially self-supporting; (iii) maintaining electricity prices
at economically and financially appropriate levels; (iv) assisting in the
preparation and implementation of a least cost investment program; and (v)
guiding and supporting institutional development to meet the sector's evolving
needs. Also, the Bank would pursue two main objectives for efficient develop-
ment of the rural electrification program: (i) reducing the cost of supply to
rural areas by optimising design and construction standards; and (ii) encou-
raging the mobilization of village resources, from private and cooperative
enterprises.
1.19     In addition to the development of the electricity subsector, the Bank
has in recent years broadened its support of sectoral objectives through
growing involvement in sector-wide policy dialogue. This broadening began
when the Bank carried out a study of energy sector issues and prepared a
report entitled "Indonesia: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" in 1981.
The report confirmed that alternatives to oil must be developed quickly for
electricity generation and recommended that this strategy should be extended
to such other sectors as industry, transportation and households. It empha-
sized the need for efficiency pricing, stronger institutions and manpower
development as major objectives. In 1984, the Bank carried out a detailed
review of PLN's 1984/85-1993194 investment plan. The findings supported the
general direction of the plan but suggested a scaling down and some measures
for improving investment efficiency. These findings, which were accepted by
the Government, were presented in a report entitled 'Indonesia: Power Sector
Investment Review' (Report No. 5486, September 1985). Also, the Bank studied
possible improvements in the efficiency of operation of thermal and hydro
plants and of maintenance of diesel plants and presented its findings in a
report entitled 'Indonesia: Power Generation Efficiency Study' (Report No.



-8-
0508/6, February 1986). This was followed up by a more detailed report
entitled "Diesel Generation Efficiency Improvement Study, (Report No. 095/88
of December 1988). The Government and PLN have accepted the recommendations
of these reports. In addition, the Bank reviewed the rural electrification
program in Indonesia and presented its findings in a report entitled
wIndonesia: Rural Electrification Options Review.' (Report No. 6144-IND,
November 1986). The Bank also financed a set of three gas-related studies
through the Fifth Technical Assistance Credit, including the 'City Gas Dis-
tribution Study', the 'Gas Utilization Study' and the 'LPG Feasibility Study'.
In 1987, an 'Energy Options Review' (Report No. 6583-IND) assessed the priori-
ties for energy sector development and recommended a strategy for their imple-
mentation.   Most recently, the Bank has undertaken an 'Institutional Develop-
ment Review' of the power sector, which will, inter alia, analyze regulatory
and organizational issues to promote efficient institutlonal development.
1.20     The Bank has also been involved in the coal and gas slubsectors
through the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
(Loan 2079-IND) the Coal Exploration Engineering Project (Loan 2153-IND), and
the Gas Distribution Project (Loan 2690-IND). The Gas Distribution Project
includes an Energy Pricing Policy study, which is expected to be completed in
August 1989. In the future, the Bank will continue to support the broad
objectives of the sectoral development through pursuit of the following
strategy:
(a)  Promote the development of nontradeable natural gas, particularly in
Java, which appears to be the most economic fuel for use in power
generation. Since the presentation of the "Energy Options Review',
progress has been made in the acceptance of the gas option for power
generation, particularly gas from the offshore fields in East Java
(KODECO and ARCO). Prospects also exist for gas supply from onshore
fields in Central Java (CEPU and others) but little action has been
taken to explore these fields. By coordinating the development of
gas and power strategies, the Bank can provide an impetus for more
rapid development of economical gas supply to industries and
households as well. The Bank would also have a role in helping GOI
to devise suitable institutional and financing arrangements which
would attract private sector participation in gas-fired power plants.
(b)  Promote the growth of coal mining primarily to meet the short and
medium terms needs of the power sector. In this respect, coal
production from South Sumatra mines will need to be stepped up to
about 5.0 MT per year to meet the requirements at Suralaya from 1990.
In addition to the mining capacity, augmentation of the
infrastructure facilities (railway, port and shipping) will be
needed. Also, a production and transportation capacity of about 2.5
million tons of coal per year will be needed from Kalimantan to
supply the next coal fired thermal plant in East Java at Paiton,
scheduled for commissioning in 1993/94.
(c) Based on the "Energy Pricing Policy Study', further the dialogue with
the Government on implementing policies and plans for the pricing of



-9-
primary energy resources including diesel oil, residual fuel oil,
kerosene, natural gas, LPG, and geothermal steam and electricity.
The Bank's Earlier Operations and PLN's Performance
1.21     Since 1969, the Bank Group has provided US$2,309 million for power
generation, tranamission and distribution fbcilities through 15 separate
projects. Six transmission and distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and
334-IND, and Loans 1259-IND, 2056-IND, 2443-IND and 2778-IND) rehabilitated
and expanded the distribution facilities in Java. Ten power projects (Credit
399-IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-IND, 1950-IND,
2214-IND, 2300-IND and 2443-IND) assisted PLN to expand electricity generation
capacity in Java, to provide a strong all-Java 500 kV grid, to extend distri-
bution facilities, to reduce system transmission and distribution losses, and
to introduce a pilot program of mini-hydro development in Sumatra. Project
Performance Audit Reports and Project Completion Reports on the first seven
projects (Credits 165-IND, 334-IND, 399-IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1259-IND,
1365-IND and 1513-IND) have been issued. Also, PCR's for the Eighth, Ninth
and Tenth Power Projects (Loans 1708-IND, 1872-IND, and 1950-IND) are
finalized. They conclude that these projects achieved the objectives set out
at the time of the appraisal and were implemented within the budget. Taken
together, these projects have enhanced PLN's institutional capabilities,
particularly its capability to carry out a rapid system expansion program.
Currently, PLN handles an investment expenditure of over $1.0 billion and
connects over one million new consumers, each year. However, the problems
encountered in the earlier projects, relating to the need to reduce implemen-
tation delays by timely appointment of consultants, and speedier procurement
and construction, still persist, though to a reduced extent. PLN and GOI are
both aware of them and are addressing them at the institutional as well as the
national levels. The Bank has been actively associated with the Government in
the resolution of these issues, which are common to many sectors.



- 10 -
II. THE POWER MARKET AND THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
The Market
2.1      Principal sources of electricity supply in Indonesia are PLN and
self-generation (captive) mainly by industries. Electricity consumption in
the country grew rapidly in the last decade from about 50 kWh per capita in
1977 to 200 kWh per capita in 1988.
2.2      The share of captive generation, which accounted for over 602 of
capacity in 1976/77, had declined to about 43Z in 1987/88 and, although cap-
tive generation capacity has continued to increase in recent years, a more
important trend has been a rapid shift by industrial users from exclusive
reliance on captive generation to use of captive generation for standby
purposes only. Annex 2 shows the growth in PLN's consumers and sales, and
Annex 3 shows the growth in captive plants in Indonesia.
2.3      Notwithstanding rapid growth, the level of consumption of electricity
in Indonesia remains low, at about 200 kWh per capita, compared to a level of
about 550 kWh per capita in Egypt or about 350/400 kWh per capita in Thailand
and the Philippines. Indonesian per capita electricity usage is even lower
than that in India and Pakistan, both of which countries have lower per capita
GDP.
Demand
2.4      The low level of electricity consumption is primarily due to lack of
supply facilities and access to the network for the residential and other
sectors. In 1987/88, only 24Z of all households in Indonesia were electri-
fied. The electrification ratio was about 27Z in Java and about 192 off Java.
2.5      Several studies have shown that the potential demand for electricity
is still large and that there is a potential for rapid growth in PLN's sales
as supply capacity expands. This is supported by the fact that, even though
PLN's sales in 1982-88 grew by about 142 a year, additional growth in electri-
city consumption was supported by expanding use of private generation by
industry. The rapid growth in PLN's sales originates from three sources,
viz., (a) extension of supply to new areas for residential and other users;
(b) gradual take-over of supply in industries currently using their own diesel
plant; and (c) growth in consumption by existing customers as a result of
rising output and income.
PLN's Facilities
2.6      PLN's total installed capacity in 1987/88 was 6,421 MW, of which
4,280 MW (67X) was in Java. About 602 of the capacity uses petroleum fuels.
Table 2.1 shows the breakdown of the generating capacity in Java and Outside
Java.



- 11 -
Table 2.1: PLN'S GENERATING CAPACITY (MARCH 31, 1988)
(MW)
Share
Type                      Java          Outside Java           Total            X
Steam (coal)               800                 65                865         13.5
Steam (oil)              1,475               180               1,655         25.8
Gas turbines               630                294                924          14.4
Diesel                        -            1,420               1,420          22.1
Hydro                    1,235                182              1,417          22.0
Geothermal                 140                  -                140           2.2
Total               4,280             2,141              6,421         100.0
Development Program
2.7      PLN's investment program in Java is designed to meet the following
important targets by the end of the Government's Fifth Five-Year Development
Program (Repelita V) in 1993/94: (a) a 751 electrification ratio in urban
areas (up from 542 in 1988), (b) a 292 electrification ratio in rural areas
(up from 16Z in 1988), and (c) the substitution of 802 of the captive genera-
tion in Java, which is currently 3,225 MVA (Annex 3). The Bank views these
targets as attainable if the supply can be expanded to meet them, although
they should be close to the economic limits of the market (i.e., to meeting
the 'unmet" demand for PLN's electricity).
2.8      Based on these expansion targets and the projected growth in the
industrial and commercial demand, the electricity sales forecasts, shown in
Table 2.2., have been agreed for the planning of the system expansion program.
Table 2.2
Sales (GWh)
Year                   Java           2              Indonesia         2
1988/89                15,345         15.8               19,682        16.3
1989/90                17,647         15.0               22,697        15.3
1990/91                20,293         15.0               26,112        15.1
1991/92                23,235         14.5               29,932        14.6
1992/93                26,488         14.0               34,169        14.2
1993/94                30,065         13.5               38,850        13.7
1994/95                33,973         13.0               43,862        12.9



- 12 -
2.9      Annexes 4 and 5 summarize the least-cost generation expansion plans
for Java and Outside Java for the period 1988189 to 1994/95 based on the
projected sales targets. The corresponding investment requirements for
Indonesia and Java are shown in Annexes 6 and 7.
2.10     As a measure to ensure soundness of the development program, the Bank
has reached the following agreements with the GOI and PLN, which are in
substance the same as those reached under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND);
(a) Each year, PLN and GOI will review with the Bank PLN's development
plan and investment budget so that the Bank can express its views on
the priorities and the balance among the generation, transmission,
and distribution investments; and
(b)  The Government will ensure that PLN has access to sufficient funds to
finance its capital expenditures as reviewed and agreed with the
Bank.



-13-
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1      The borrower of the proposed loan would be the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) and the beneficiary would be PLN, the so:.e government-owned
national power utility in Indonesia. PLN's organization was described in
para. 1.9.
Institutional Development
3.2      Over the past ten years PLN has grown impressively.  Since 1977/78,
PLN has connected new consumers at an average rate of about 680,000 per year,
increasing from about 370,000 in 1978/79 to about 1,200,000 in 1987/88. Its
sales increased at an average annual compound rate of about 17Z in
1977/78-1987/88, from 3,530 GWh to 17,077 GWh. Annex 8 summarizes selected
performance indicators for PLN, which show gains on many fronts.
3.3      During the next several years, PLN is expected to continue to grow
rapidly (para. 2.9). The rapid expansion of supply facilities involves
increasingly complex technical and managerial tasks, for which PLN will need
to continue to strengthen its institutional capacity. Areas that need
strengthening have been recognized, and actions and programs are either
already underway or planned, in many cases with assistance from the Bank.
These actions and programs are designed to support PLN's efforts in the
following major areas, namely, (a) planning; (b) organization and management;
(c) improvement in operating efficiency; and (d) manpower development and
training.
(a) Planning
3.4      Through the years, PLN has strengthened its technical planning
activities in the areas of generation, transmission and distribution. The
generation and transmission planning functions are now well established in PLN
and are functioning smoothly. The emphasis now rests on improving the
planning, operation, maintenance and management of distribution facilities,
for which responsibility is largely dispersed in PLN's regional offices. The
proposed project provides for technical assistance for the strengthening of
PLN's distribution management functions (para. 4.22).
3.5      PLN set up a corporate planning unit in 1981, and its first five-
year corporate plan defining corporate objectives for all of its major func-
tions was issued in 1984. However, the process of corporate planning in PLN
is yet to develop into a substantive activity. Factors that have hampered the
effectiveness of corporate planning in PLN have been the lack of appropriate
organizational structuring of the function, inadequate staffing, and insuffi-
cient familiarity of management and staff with modern corporate and strategic
planning techniques and procedures. There is also need for better coordina-
tion among PLN's functional directorates (planning, construction, operations,
finance, and administration, including human resources) on planning matters,
and for their active involvement in the corporate planning process. Closer
coordination between the corporate planning and financial planning functions
is particularly important, since financial objectives are a critical set of



- 14 -
corporate objectives, and it is essential that both the corporate and finan-
cial plans are better integrated. The corporate planning and financial
planning functions need to be further strengthened, both organizationally and
technically. The Board of Directors of PLN fully supports this concept and,
as part of the 1988 reorganization of PLN, has already set up planning units
in the functional directorates and the regional offices, with the corporate
planning division in the planning directorate having the responsibility for
the overall coordination of the planning activities (para. 3.6). Staffing of
these planning units is substantially complete. PLN requires external techni-
cal assistance to help develop further its corporate and financial planning
functions, including training focused on corporate and financial planning
objectives, techniques and procedures; assistance in the initial planning
exercise to facilitate and guide the planning process, and to observe the
effectiveness of the training; and overview assistance until the planning
processes are functioning effectively. The proposed project provides for such
technical assistance (para. 4.32).
(b) Organization and Management
3.6      Annex 1, Chart 2 shows PLN's organization chart.  The organizational
structure is basically centralised. However, decentralization of functions and
responsibilities to the regional managers is a necessity that has been recog-
nized. In December 1987, PLN implemented a reorganization within its func-
tional directorates at its headquarters and in its regional offices to stream-
line the planning, programming, budgeting, operational and evaluation activi-
ties. Under this reorganization, planning and evaluation units have been set
up in each functional directorate and regional office, and the responsibility
for the overall coordination of these activities is vested in the corresponding
units in the Directorate of Planning. To decentralize further, the regional
managers have been assigned a larger role in the preparation of their annual
programs and budgets, and greater responsibility and accountability for
carrying out their operational functions. These organizational changes are a
step in the right direction and are expected to help improve the overall
efficiency and effectiveness of PLN. In view of the expected substantial
growth in PLN's operations, the need for a further review of PLN's institu-
tional development was recognized. Towards this end, a review of the adequacy
of the institutional framework in the power sector, including the role of PLN
and its relationship with the Government, was undertaken by the Bank in
February/March 1989. The results of this review will be presented in a Bank
report and discussed with the Government.
3.7      As agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), PLN has
established an Engineering Services Center (PPE) where activities such as
project formulation, engineering, design, procurement and construction
monitoring are unified. The staffing of the center has been accomplished, and
consultants funded ux.der the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan
2778-IND) are already in place to assist PLN in developing the center. An
overall management information system is also being developed, which will draw
upon various subsystems (e.g., operations, project management, finance and
accounting, personnel and manpower development) to provide PLN managers with
more timely and accurate information on operational activities. PLN is being
assisted in this work by consultants whose services are being financed from the
Thirteenth Power Project (Loan 2300-IND).



- 15 -
(c) Improvement in Operating Efficiency
3.8      Annex 8 shows some of the performance indicators for PLN for the
years 1979/80 to 1981/88. which indicate significant achievements in several
areas. However, further improvements are possible and necessary. Under the
Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND), PLN agreed to
carry out an action plan for such improvements, which is under implementation.
The major components of this action pla. are: (i) efficiency improvement in
distribution including reduction in losses; (ii) conversion of selected oil-
fired thermal plants to gas-firing; (iii) improvements in the operation of
major thermal power plants; (iv) improvements in the operation and maintenance
of diesel power plants, including their relocation and rehabilitation; and (v)
renovation of small hydro plants. The proposed project supports the
implementation of this plan; the agreement to carry out the action plan is
continued under the proposed loan.
(d) Manpower Development and Training
3.9      As of March 31, 1988, PLN had about 51,200 employees of whom about
36,700 are employed on the permanent payroll. PLN has no difficulty in
recruiting staff educated at levels up to technical high school, but less than
3Z of the staff have university degrees. To address its training problems,
PLN has a separate department for training. This department, known as
PUSDIKLAT, plays an important role in PLN's efforts to upgrade the skills of
its technical and administrative staff, and manages ten training centers with
a staff of about 470, including about 180 trained instructors. PLN expends
considerable effort in the training of staff not only within the organization,
but also through student scholarship and foreign training. These efforts have
been largely successful. In 1987/88, about 3,800 staff received training of
various duration; of these staff, about 1,900 received training at the
PUSDIKLAT, about 1,700 domestically outside PUSDIKLAT, and about 200 outside
Indonesia.
3.10     The Bank has been supporting PLN's training activities and human
resources development efforts, including the establishment of several training
centers. Currently, three major training efforts are well underway with
assistance provided under the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-IND). They
are, (il technical assistance to reorganize and enlarge the entire manpower
development, training and personnel management functions for middle- and
lower-level staff; (ii) setting-up new training centers, for thermal power
plants, transmission lines and middle-level managers; and (iii) a program for
the training of senior- and middle-level personnel outside Indonesia in tech-
nical and financial areas. Progress under these activities has been satisfac-
tory. The proposed project provides for specific training activities in the
areas of diesel plant operations, distribution management, corporate and
financial planning, general accounting and cash management (paras. 4.9, 4.22,
4.32-4.35).
Accounting and Budgeting
3.11     PLN's accounting system, installed in the early 1970s, follows
generally accepted accounting principles, and normal utility practices, but it
needs upgrading to keep pace with the growing complexity and volume of
accounting transactions. There is need for improvement with respect to the



- 16 -
completeness and accuracy of fixed asset accounting, depreciation, inventory
accounting and accounts receivables. The accounting system needs to produce
more accurate information in a timely manner, for use by PLN managers in
making decisions. Also, PLN's internal procedures for preparing budgets and
monitoring actual expenditures need to be strengthened through better
coordination among and participation by the various functional directorates
and regional offices in the process, to enhance the budget's value as a
management tool.
3.12     Under the Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2056-IND), funds were provided
for management consultancy for developing an integrated system for budgeting,
accounting, and financial reporting. This study is complete and its recommen-
dations are in various stages of implementation. PLN has engaged or is
engaging consultants to improve fixed assets accounting, cost accounting, and
inventory management. Since 1987, PLN is implementing an action plan to
improve its accounting practices and functions by (i) establishing a uniform
accounting system, (ii) improving related support systems, (iii) sensitizing
concerned non-financial managers and staff to the importance of timely and
accurate accounting, (iv) uipgrading the skills of the accounting staff through
in-house and external training courses, and (v) computerizing the accounting
process. The proposed project provides for technical assistance to improve
the appropriateness and adequacy of PLN's accounting policies and systems, and
to prepare relevant updated accounting manuals (para. 4.34). Through its
recent reorganization, PLN is also attempting to improve coordination between
its departments and its regional offices in the areas of budget preparation,
and monitoring and evaluation of performance as discussed in para. 3.6.
Billing and Collections
3.13     Bills are prepared monthly.  Computer billing is utilized at the
computer center at the headquarters in Jakarta. Overall collection perfor-
mance is generally satisfactory. The receivables position of general consumer
accounts has been good, as it has been kept at about one and one-half months
of the yearly billing. The collections from government users (including the
Armed Forces and local governments), who account for about 1O of its total
sales, has also improved in recent years. The Government has taken various
measures to reduce overdue government accounts--from over one year in 1981/82
to under two months' billing now. A covenant under Loan 2778-IND requires
that amounts owed to PLN by all government users will not be overdue in the
aggregate by more than two months of total billings to such users. This
covenant will continue under the proposed loan.
Audit and Internal Control
3.14     PLN's accounts are required by its charter to be audited by
Government auditors. The audits are carried out following generally accepted
accounting practices and standards. The audit reports in recent years have
received qualified opinions from the auditors. In the latest report for
FY 1987/88, the qualification related to its inventory accounts. The magni-
tude of discrepancies is not so large as to render the accounts unacceptable;
the Bank has, therefore, considered them acceptable. Since 1983, PLN has made
special efforts to expedite the closing of accounts and has succeeded in
completing them usually within six months after the close of the fiscal year



- 17 -
as stipulated by Government for all public corporations. PLN is also taking
measures to train its accounting staff and has prepared computerization plans
to expedite accounts processing (para. 3.12).  Government audits normally take
about three months. While the unaudited accounts are generally finalized and
received in time, there are still delays in auditing of accounts. These
delays have been largely due to protracted discussions between PLN and the
auditors on matters that have been the subject of qualified opinions from the
auditors. As these delays are expected to be transitory, the audit covenant
under Loan 2778-IND, that requires PLN to submit to the Bank its unaudited
accounts no later than six months, and the audited financial statements and
the report of such audits no later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year, will be cortinued under the proposed loan.
3.15     PLN has an effective internal audit group which reports to the
President Director for various special investigations, in addition to keeping
general and project accounting matters under review.
Insurance
3.16     PLN currently carries transit and marine insurance on equipment and
materials in transit. Projects under construction are covered by the
contractor's all risk and erection insurance. Fire and other hazards on most
of the assets in operation are as yet self-insured. In view of the geogra-
phical spread of PLN's assets, any single loss would be relatively small by
comparison with total assets and operations, and this policy has been accepted
by the Bank. However, some very large projects have recently been completed
and others nw under implementation would result in a greater concentration of
assets in certain locations than in the past. As agreed under the Fourteenth
Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), with assistance from a local insurance company,
PLN carried out a review of its insurance practices and requirements. As a
result of the review, PLN took out commercial insurance for all the major
operating plant and equipment at the Muara Karang and Suralaya thermal plants.
Under the proposed loan, an understanding was reached that major works, plant
and equipment at other large projects such as the recently completed Saguling,
Cirata and Mrica hydroelectric plants and the proposed Paiton Thermal Power
Project, would be insured with outside agencies.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
4.1      As discussed in para. 3.8, intensive dialogue has taken place between
the Bank and the Government on institutional development and efficiency issues
in the power sector in connection with the Power Transmission and Distribution
Project (Loan 2778-IND), which was approved in January 1987. As a result of
that project, ar action plan was prepared for the improvement of the effi-
ciency of PLN. Also, the sector work carried out by the Bank suggested
several actions by the Government that would improve the sector's efficiency.
This project supports a package of actions, which, when taken together with
other ongoing actions, will improve the efficiency of the sector in financial,
technical and institutional development areas. To improve the financial
performance of PLN and, at the same time to meet the financial performance
targets agreed between the Bank and PLN (para 5.7), an average increase of 25?
in electricity prices has been implemented, effective from April 1, 1989.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.2      As discussed in para. 1.18, in the early years of the Bank's associa-
tion with PLN, effort was concentrated on transforming PLN from a department
of government to an autonomous entity. In subsequent years, the Bank assisted
PLN in the rapid expansion and integration of its supply facilities. Past
operations have emphasized different aspects of the efficiency of the institu-
tion and the sector, such as implementation of the least cost investment
program, training, improvements in project design and implementation, loss
reduction, etc. In an era of resource constraints, drawing the greatest
benefit possible from existing assets has a high priority. The proposed
project is designed to improve PLN's capacity to manage the existing and
rapidly expanding system efficiently. Given the Bank's close relationship
with and knowledge of PLN, it is well placed to help the authorities implement
a program to enhance the managerial, operational, and financial efficiency of
the sector.
Pro3ect Obiectives
4.3      The project aims to focus the attention of PLN and the Government on
the sector's efficiency and to implement selected actions in a time-bound
manner to utilize resources more efficiently. Specifically, the project will
improve the operation of PLN's diesel, hydro and steam power plants and
distribution facilities, and provide investment funds to augment distribution
facilities and the telecommunications network. Also targeted for improvement
are corporate planning, financial planning, accounting and cash management
functions. To enhance the strategic objectives outlined in paras. 1.10 to
1.17, the following actions are agreed with GOI and PLN under the proposed
loan.
(a) establishing institutional mechanism to review and advise the
Government on all price adjustments in the energy sector (para.
1.13);



- 19 -
(b) establishing an information system that vill provide costs for the
rural electrification component of PLN's investments and operations
(paras. 1.15 and 5.18); and
(c) introducing suitable regulatory and contractual measures to utilize
some of the captive (in-house) generating capacity, along witn PLN's
facilities, to reduce investment costs and to promote economic
cogeneration by industries (paras. 1.16 and 1.17).
Project Description
4.4      The project comprises investment and technical assistance components.
The investment components will include: (a) improvement in the operation and
maintenance of diesel power plants, including their relocation and rehabilita-
tion; (b) renovation of small hydro plants in Java to recover derated capacity
and maximize energy output; (c) implementation of a distribution investment
program to support the projected increase in sales and consumers; and (d)
augmentation of PLN's telecommunications facilities. The technical assistance
components will inclade assistance, inter alia, for improving: (a) operation
of diesel power plants; (b) operation and maintenance of steam power plants;
(c) operation, maintenance and management of distribution facilities; (d) gen-
eral accounting, and cash management; and (e) financial planning and corporate
planning functions. The technical assistance component will also include
training relevant to the above areas.
Diesel Efficiencv
4.5      To meet the electricity needs of about 402 of the country's popula-
tion in hundreds of islands other than Java, PLN has extensively used diesel
generators. In 1987/88 the total capacity of diesel generators outside Java
was about 1,420 MW; the total number of units exceeded two thousand, installed
in over six hundred locations. Efficient operation and maintenance of these
units is a formidable task because of the vast geographical area covered and
the diversity of the capacities, models and manufacturers of the engines.
4.6      Responding to PLN's desire to improve the operation and maintenance
of its diesel plavnt, a Bank mission carried out a review of the needs under
the UNDP/World Baik "Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP)l and
presented its findings in a report entitled 'Power Generation Efficiency
Study" (Report No. 050/86 of February 1986). Further work on the diesel
efficiency improvement program was carried out in 1987 by the Bank under the
same program, funded by a grant from the Government of the Netherlands. A
report containing detailed reccmmendations was finalized in December 1988
(Report No. 095/88). Also, since November 1987, using funds from a grant by
the Government of the Netherlands, a full-time expatriate diesel expert has
been appointed as an Engineering Advisor, resident in Indonesia, to advise PLN
in the formulation and implementation of various components of the diesel
efficiency program. The Engineering Advisor is solely accountable to PLN and
acts strictly as an advisor.
4.7      The six major activities to be conducted under this program are
described below:
(a) Compile an accurate inventory of all diesel generating units.



- 20 -
(b) Recover derated capacity of diesel units by rehabilitation, where
technically and economically justified. An initial survey of units
rated above 500 kW, indicates that 82 units, with a total installed
capacity of 133 MW, each of which is derated by more than 202, have
an aggregate derating of 49 HW or 37Z. These include 29 units at
five locations surveyed by the ESMAP team (para. 4.6), with a total
installed capacity of about 100 MW, derated by about 37 MW.
(c) Relocate selected diesel units to better match the demand and the
supply capability. Relocation of 73 diesel units in the capacity
range of 100 kW to 400 kW has already been determined to be desirable
and is under implementation. Further relocation needs will be
identified and :mplemented.
(d) Develop and implement new wavs of maintaining the diesel units to
improve their availability, i- iabillity and fuel efficiency.  Some of
the steps proposed inclu(ie e:i-.tion of mobile maintenance teams,
wider use of transportable j2;.el units for small rural systems,
implementation of computer-b.<ed maintenance management systems,
establishment of a specialist operation and maintenance support group
and selective privatization of maintenance.
Ce) Develop and implement more intensive and extensive training programs
for about 1,700 operation and maintenance staff associated with units
with a capacity over 250 kW which constitute about 84Z of the total
installed diesel capacity.
(f) Improve inventory management for spare parts, including purchase,
warehousing, and distribution. The activity will lead to the
establishment of a computerized inventory management system.
4.8      To prepare further and implement these components of the project in
an efficient and coordinated manner, PLN has established a full-time team,
which includes one senior officer at the level of Subdivision Chief and two
other officers. Also, a steering committee has been set up to provide policy
guidance and management support to the working team. This is chaired by the
Chief of the Operations Planning Division and includes the chiefs of
Operations, Logistics, Operations Evaluation and Rural hlectrification
Divisions. Also, close coordination is established with the System Planning
Division, Personnel Planning Division and PUSDIKLAT (training).
4.9      Assistance of consultants will be needed for the activities (d), (e)
and (f) described in para. 4.7. In January 1989, PLN prepared a Project
Formulation Report defining the scope of this technical assistance component,
including training, to request the Government of the Netherlands for its
funding. An agreement has been reached between GOI and the Government of the
Netherlands, under which the latter will provide 2.0 million Guilders in 1989
to finance the activities. The agreement is expected to be extended to cover
the three year period 1989/90 to 1991/92 and the total estimated cost of 20
million guilders. It has not yet been possible to finalize the scope of reha-
bilitation activity and its costs. More investigations will be carried out on
each plant and unit needing rehabilitation. The selection of diesel plants



- 21 -
for rehabilitation would be done on the basis of a detailed cost/benefit
analysis. Reports containing such information will be submitted to the Bank
for review. The proposed loan will provide $10 million to be used over a
period of three to four years to finance the implementation of the approved
rehabilitation projects. Cofinancing is also expected from the Government of
the Netherlands for the rehabilitation of some diesel units supplied by Dutch
manufacturers. Annex 9 gives a cost estimate for the various activities
discussed above.
Hydro Renovation
4.10     The project will include renovation of seven small hydro plants in
Java. Annex 10 gives details of each plant and the scope of work. Table 4.1
summarizes the information.
Table 4.1: HYDRO RENOVATION AND E.YPECTED BENEFITS
Year of            Nominal           Capacity/energy
Name               commissioning        capacity (MW)             gain
Ubrug                 1924 )               17.1             Capacity:    8 MW
1939 )                               Energy:   47.0 GWh
Kracak                1924                 16.5             Capacity:    8 MW
Energy:   21.6 GWh
Lamajan               1924 )               19.2             Capacity:  2.1 MW
1934 )                               Energy:    8.0 GWh
Ketenger              1939                  7.5             Capacity:  1.8 MW
Energy:    8.0 GWh
Jelok & Timo          1937 )               32.9             Capacity:  3.4 MW
1957 )                               Energy:   21.0 GWh
Giringan              1937 )                3.2             Capacity:  0.8 MW
1955                                  Energy:    5.6 GWh
Plengan               1922 )                5.3             Capacity:  1.1 MW
1960 )                               Energy:    1.0 GWh
Total                                101.2
4.11     The scope of work includes rehabilitation of generating equipment
including turbines, generators, governors and exciters; renovation or replace-
ment of electrical aquipment such as transformers, control panel instrumenta-
tion and protective relays; and repair and painting of penstocks, at all
stations. The proposals also include civil works to provide (a) an additional
waterway at Ubrug; (b) a modification of water intake at Kracak; (c) enlarged
water discharge from Jelok and Timo; (d) enlargement of daily pondage capacity
at Giringan; and (e) enlarged water storage capacity and improved intake at
Ketenger.



- 22 -
4.12     The responsibility for the engineering and coordination of this
project is assigned to the newly established Engineering Services Center (PPE)
of PLN (para. 3.7), which will establish a project team for this purpose.
Detailed investigations and designs for the civil works will be carried out by
PPE staff, assisted by local consultants, where necessary. PPE will be
assisted by the staff of PLN's Research and Testing Institute (LMK) for the
investigation of the scope of penstock renovation work. PLN also obtained
assistance from Sulzer and Charmille of Switzerland, who are the original
suppliers of most of the generating equipment, to define the scope of work for
the generating equipment. The cost of about US$200,000 for this work is being
funded from the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND).
4.13     The implementation of the rehabilitation works, including the civil
works, are expected to stretch over a period of about four years. The
renovation of the generation equipment and penstocks is expected to be
completed in about two and a half years. In the coordination and supervision
of the renovation works, the PPE team will be assisted by consultants, who are
being selected following the Bank's guidelines. About 150 man-months are
estimated for the consulting engineering services, of which about 100 will be
from local consultants.
Distribution
4.14     Demands on PLN to expand its distribution facilities have been heavy
over the past few years; the number of consumers served by PLN in Java have
grown from about 1.0 million in 1977178 to about 5.4 million in 1987/88, an
annual average growth rate of about 18.52. In the process of this rapid
growth, it has not been possible to achieve a high-level of efficiency in the
distribution system. Improving efficiency of the distribution facilities
requires a three-pronged approach:
(a)  maintaining a proper balance between the investments in generation,
transmission and distribution facilities. Distribution expansion
should keep pace with the growth in sales to maintain desired
standards of service quality, at minimum cost;
(b)  upgrading the quality of operation and maintenance of the
distribution network by better equipment, procedures and training of
staff; and
(c)  minimizing costs by better planning, improved standards of design
and construction, and reduction of technical and nontechnical
losses.
4.15     In the past, investments in distribution facilities have lagged
behind sales growth and consumer connections. This has contributed to low
reliability and high distribution losses. Since the relatively short time
horizon for planning and constructing distribution facilities makes them
unsuitable for funding by external agencies, PLN largely depends on internal
funds or Government contributions for financing distribution investments.
Consequently, in periods of financial stringency, distribution investments are



- 23 -
curtailed, creating imbalance and inefficiencies in the system. In order to
provide a stable financial environment under which distribution investments
can be planned and implemented, this project includes the financing of a two-
year timeslice of the distribution investment program (excluding rural
electrification) in Java for 1990/91 and 1991/92.  It also provides for tech-
nical assistance to improve distribution management in Java (para. 4.22). In
the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND), approved by
the Bank in January 1987, a similar approach was used to fund primarily 150 kV
and 70 kV transmission lines and substations in Java. The proposed project
will complement the earlier project by financing the requirements for
expanding non-rural distribution in the whole of Java island at voltages of 20
kV and below.
4.16     The distribution investment program for Java, including rural
electrification, for 1989/90-1991/92, incorporates targets for consumer
connections shown in Table 4.2
Table 4.2: JAVA CONSUMER CONNECTION TARGETS
Consumer category                          1989/90     1990/91       1991/92
Residential                                719,400      742,600      767,400
Commercial                                  22,556       24,637       27,280
Industrial                                   1,918        2,112        2,326
Public and others                           26,438      31,680        37,988
Total                                 770,312     801,029       834,994
4.17     The non-rural consumer connection program for 1990/91 and 1991/92
included in the proposed project is as shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: CONSUMER CONNECTION PROGRAM
New consumers                           1990/91                       1991/92
Residential                             382,221                        385,226
Commercial                               24,637                         27,280
Public                                    2,112                          2,326
Industrial                               31,680                         37,988
Total                              440,650                        452,820
4.18     The corresponding targets of physical construction of medium-voltage
lines, low voltage lines, and distribution transformers are as shown in
Table 4.4.



- 24 -
Table 4.4: CONSTRUCTION TARGETS
1990/91                        1991/92
MV lines (kmc) /a                         4,459                          5,077
LV lines (kmc)                           4,164                           4,905
Distribution Transformers (MVA)          1,241                           1,387
Consumer Connections                   440,650                         452,820
.a kmc means circuit kilometers.
4.19     Annex 12 , Tables 1, 2 and 3 give details of the physical quantities
subdivided under PLN's four Wilayahs (regions) viz: East Java, Central Java,
West Java and Jakarta, the cost estimate and a list of proposed contracts for
distribution materials. The Bank loan would finance Lots LA, 1B, 2A, 2B, 2C,
3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10A, lOB, 11 and 12, listed in Table 3 of Annex 12.
4.20     All distribution expansion is proposed to be carried out by the
extension of the grid supply. Detailed plans for the expansion are developed
by PLN for each year for each Wilayah covered by the project, using ranking
criteria that include: (a) distance from the grid; (b) demand density in
terms of number of consumers per km2; (c) construction cost per consumer and
per kVA of connected load; (d) estimated energy sales per unit of investment;
and (f) considerations of equitable regional development.
4.21     Detailed reports containing such plans for each Wilayah will be
submitted to the Bank for review and comments in July 1989. It was agreed
that such plans will be updated each year thereafter, i.e., by March 31, 1990
for the year 1990/91, and by March 31, 1991 for the year 1991/92, and
submitted to the Bank for review and comments prior to implementation.
4.22     The project includes technical assistance to strengthen PLN's manage-
ment of the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of itS
distribution facilities. Consulting services will be procured for such a
purpose following the Bank's guidelines. Agreed terms of reference for the
consulting services are attached (Annex 13). The consultants are expected to
be appointed by December 31, 1989. The total estimated requirement for the
services will be about 230 man-months of which about 100 will be from local
consultants.
Telecommunications
4.23     Efficient operation, maintenance and management of a power utility
requires a reliable telecommunications network. The communications require-
ments fall in three categories vizs (i) operational communications related to
the safety and efficiency of the power system requiring "real-time' functions



- 25 -
of system control, protection and switching; (ii) communications related to
coordination of operations, maintenance and construction activities; and (iii)
general administrative and commercial communications. These functions have
different requirements of reliability, speed and quality. PLN utilizes commu-
nications facilities such as power-line carrier, radio (VHF) and public
telephones to meet its current needs.
4.24     Recognizing the need to augment and upgrade its communications
facilities to meet the requirements of the expanding network, studies were
commissioned to prepare a master plan for telecommunications requirements for
the period 1985-2000, using funds from the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-
IND). This resulted in a "Design Report for Java Trunk System" in August
1985, and a 'Supplementary Report* in May 1986. The requirements were defined
in terms of phasing for each five-year period. The detailed technical
requirements for the first development phase were presented in a report in
March 1987, entitled 'Java West Telecommunications System - Technical
Proposal.' This report provides the basis of the scope of the telecommunica-
tions component included in the proposed project.
4.25     The project will provide a trunk telecommunications network in West
Java, using fiber-optic cables, which will be superimposed on and integrated
with the existing telecommunications facilities. In order to minimize the
installation costs, existing towers carrying the power transmission lines will
be used for supporting the fiber-optic cables. About 500 km of fiber-optic
cables would be required. Also included are fiber-optical transmission
systems, multiplexing stations, terminals and a transit private automatic
exchange with 800 lines at Cawang in Jakarta. Annex 14 provides the cost
estimate for the proposed system.
4.26     Detailed design and tender documents have already been prepared.  The
project will be implemented by a single contract, to be procured by ICB, which
will include supply, erection, initial maintenance and training.
4.27     The scope of the services of the past consultant ended with the
preparation of the tender documents. PLN has invited proposals from an agreed
shortlist of consultants, for the implementation phase of the project, in
accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The consulting
services are estimated to require about 80 man-months.
Technical Assistance
4.28     The project provides for technical assistance to improve PLN's opera-
tions, maintenance and management in several areas, with the assistance of
either individual expatriate specialists or with the help of consulting firms
and provision of equipment and software as necessary for this purpose. The
scope of such assistance in the areas of diesel generating plants and the
management of distribution facilities was discussed in paras. 4.9 and 4.22.
Additional areas for technical assistance are: (i) improvement in the opera-
tion and maintenance of major thermal power plants; (ii) strengthening of
corporate and financial planning activities; and (iii) improvements in cash
management and accounting functions. Funding of the first area is excluded
from this project since technical assistance is already in progress with a
grant from the British Overseas Development Assistance program.



- 26 -
Thermal Power Plants
4.29     Suralaya coal-fired steam power plant, funded from earlier Bank
Loans, vas selected as a target for efficiency improvement. The plant
currently has 3 x 400 MW units under operation and one more similar unit is
expected to be added in late 1989. With a capacity of 1,600 MW operating at
base load, this plant would generate about 9,000-10,000 GWh of electrical
energy each year, or about 40S of the total electricity generation in Java in
1990/91. PLN has already taken steps including an intensive training program
for the operation and maintenance staff, funded by grant from the British
Overseas Assistance program, that have resulted in impressive improvement in
the station performance in the last two years, as illustrated in Table 4.5
below:
Table 4.5: PERFORMANCE OF SURALKYA POWER PLANT
Availability (Z)                Plant factor (Z)  /a
Unit 1          Unit 2           Unit 1          Unit 2
1985/86                    64              55               42              38
1986/87                   58               73               44              57
1987/88                   87               81               73              68
1988/89                   91               85               77              71
/a  Plant factor is the ratio of actual production to the theoretical
production capacity.
4.30     Actions to sustain this improvement have been identified and in
progress. They include:
(a) plant betterment in areas such as ash disposal and coal unloading;
(b) improvement in practices for water conditioning, housekeeping, and
performance monitoring; and
(c) training for the operation, maintenance and management staff.
4.31     PLN already operates a simulator training school at Suralaya for
operator training and has established a central thermal power training center
at Suralaya. These activities were funded from the Ninth and the Twelfth
Power Projects (Loans 1872-IND and 2214-IND). PLN has also strengthened the
operation and maintenance organization at the Suralaya plant and added
specialized functions such as an efficiency engineer.
Corporate Planning and Financial Planning
4.32     The need to strengthen PLN's corporate planning and financial
planning functions, and the objectives of strengthening these functions were



- 27 _
discussed in para. 3.5. In view of their substantial interrelationship, tech-
nical assistance for these activities will be carried out jointly, in two
phases over a period of about two-and-a-half years. The first phase, lasting
about six months, would lead to the preparation of a master plan for the
improvement of the corporate and financial planning functions in PLN. The
second phase, lasting about two years, would include (a) assistance during one
full cycle of the annual corporate planning process, to ensure that this
function will be carried out in future without external assistance; and (b)
assistance in acquiring and using a suitable utility financial planning
software package.
4.33     Terms of reference for the technical assistance, agreed with PLN, are
presented in Annex 15. The consultants are expected Lo be appointea by
January 31, 1990. About 140 man-months will be required for the services, of
which about 60 man-months will be from local consultants.
Accounting
4.34     The need for technical assistance to improve PLN's accounting
policies and systems, and to prepare upda&Ld accounting manuals was discussed
in para. 3.12. Terms of reference for conisulting services for such technical
assistance have been finalized in consultation with the Bank. PLN has invited
proposals from several accounting firms in Indonesia, having association with
foreign firms, for their services. It is expected that the consultants will
be appointed by December 31, 1989.
Cash Management
4.35     PLN often holds substantial bank balances in current deposits to
maintain liquidity. The system for providing timely information concerning
future receipts and disbursements is currently not well developed; hence the
need for strengthening cash management and planning functions. Local
consultants have been appointed to assist PLN in improving the efficiency of
its financial management through an active program of cash management to
define and achieve a desired level of liquidity, which would include cash
balances and facilities for both short-term investment and short-term
borrowings, the creation of a short- and intermediate-term cash forecasting
model, and training of appropriate staff in cash management techniques.
4.36     Draft terms of reference for the consultancy work were agreed with
the Bank.  PLN will finance the services from its own funds.
Cost Estimate
4.37     Annexes 9, 11, 12, and 14 provide the detailed cost estimates for the
diesel, hydro renovation, distribution and telecommunications components of
the project. All costs are based on December 1988 prices and derived from
recent tenders. Physical contingencies are set at 5Z. The price contingen-
cies, calculated using the inflation factors shown in Table 4.6, amount to
about IOZ of the base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 28 -
Table 4.6: INFLATION FACTORS (Z)
1989        1990         1991 onwards
Foreign                          5.3         5.3          4.1
Local                            9.0         9.1          5.2
4.38      Table 4.7 sumnarizes the project cost estimate.   The costs are inclu-
sive of taxes and duties, estimated to be US$12.9 million equivalent. The
total project cost, net of taxes, is US$584.1 million equivalent. PLN is
exempt from taxes on imported equipment but pays 102 value-added tax (VAT) on
all local contracts.
Table 4.7: SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
U_ milIlIon              RD billion          Foreign as
Item                            Local  For7ign Total  Local   Foreign   Total   X of total
DiOsel program                    8.0   18.0   16.0    S.10   22.10         27.20   61.2
Hydro renovation                 14.7    6.1   20.8   24.99   10.37         85.u8   29.8
Distribution                     87.6  820.0  407.5  146.75  644.00    692.76    78.5
T eIcomunications                 8.0   11.2   14.2    5.10   19.04         24.14    78.9
Consulting services
Hydro renovation                1.0    1.4    2.4    1.70    2.88          4.08   58.8
Tlecomunications                 1.0    2.0    8.0    1.70    8.40          5.10   66.7
Technical assistance a
Distribution mnagement          1.0    8.0    4.0    1.70    5.10          6.60   75.0
Diesel efficiency               2.0    8.0   10.0    8.40   18.60         17.00    76.0
Corporate and financial
planning                      0.5    1.5    2.0    0.35    2.66          8.40   76.0
Accounting and cash management  0.5    1.6    2.0    0.86    2.55          8.40    76.0
Total Base Cost            114.2  867.7  481.9  194.14  626.09        819.28   76.8
Physical contingency at 5x        6.7   18.4   24.1    9.69.  81.28         40.97   76.8
Price contingency                12.0   88.6   60.6   20.40   65.45         86.36   76.2
Total Prolect Cost         181.9  424.6  665.6  224.23  721.82        946.05   76.8
Interest during construction      -      40.5   40.6    -        68.86      68.86  100.0
Total Financing Required   181.0  46S.1  597.0  224.28   790.67   1.014.90   77.9
a Excludes cost of about U522.0 million equivalent for the Improvement of the operation and
maintenance of steam power plants financed by a Britiah ODA grant.



- 29 -
Financing Plan
4.39     The financing plan for the project, as shown in Table 4.8 below, was
agreed.
Table 4.8: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source                                 Local       Foreign      Total        Z
Cofinancing from the Government
of the Netherlands                      -         20.0         20.0       3.3
IBRD                                      -        337.0        337.0      56.5
Other Cofinancing                         -         67.6         67.6      11.3
PLN                                    131.9        40.5/a      172.4      28.9
Total                             131.9      465.1         597.0    100.0
/a Corresponds to the interest during construction.
4.40     As discussed in para. 4.9, cofinancing from the Netherlands, consist-
ing of grants and concessional funds, is expected to finance the technical
assistance component and a part of the rehabilitation component of the diesel
program. Cofinancing will also be arranged for some of the equipment for dis-
tribution. It was agreed that the Government will finalize the cofinancing
arrangements by March 31, 1990.
4.41     The proposed loan will finance 72 3Z of the foreign cost of the
project or 56.5Z of the project cost, including the interest during construc-
tion. The proceeds of the Bank loan, which would be made to GOI, would be
onlent to PLN for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years, under a subsi-
diary loan agreement, the signing of which will be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness. The onlending rate will be the Bank's standard variable interest
rate plus fees of 1.90Z to cover administrative charges, and a part of the
foreign exchange risk that will be borne by the Government.
Procurement
4.42     All equipment and related services financed under the proposed Bank
loan will be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB), except the
following:
(a) spare parts and other materials required for small diesel rehabilita-
tion subprojects will be procured by local competitive bidding proce-
dures in accordance with the Government guidelines, which are accep-
table to the Bank. Also, materials required for diesel rehabilita-
tion estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent may
be procured by selected shopping procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines;



- 30 -
(b)  renovation of the turbines and governors for old hydro plants will be
entrusted to the original suppliers, Sulzer and Charmille of
Switzerland, by direct negotiations. This is considered the most
efficient and economical procurement procedure for the 11 small
turbines involved, for which only the original suppliers have the
design data; and
(c)  the rewinding and renovation of generators for hydro plants will be
implemented following limited international bidding by firms
specialized for such work, since such work is highly specialized and
only a few international firms are competent to execute it to the
required standards.
4.43      The Bank loan will finance the procurement of the following items:
(a) diesel rehabilitation; (b) hydro renovation; (c) distribution equipment;
(d) telecommunications; (e) consulting services connected with hydro
renovation, distribution management, telecommunications, corporate and
financial planning, accounting and training.
4.44     For all consulting services to be financed under the proposed loan,
consultants will be selected and engaged in accordance with the Bank guide-
lines. In the ICB procedures for the procurement of equipment, domestic
manufacturers would be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 152 or
the import duty whichever is lower. Table 4.9 summarizes the procurement
arrangements.  All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank loan
estimated to cost over US$1,000,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's
prior review of procurement documents, which will cover over 902 of the
procurement volume.
Table: 4.9: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(uSS milion)
Procurement method
Direct nogo- Limited                Total
ICB     LCB     tiations     ICB    Others  N.A.     cost
Di-exl program            6.0     3.0        -          -     22.0L   2.0/b   82.0
(5.0)    (380)                       (2.03r         (10.0)
Hydro renovation         0.6    16.0       6.0         1.6      -     2.0/b   26.0
(0.6)            (6.0)       (1.6)                   (8.0)
Distribution            292.0    126.0       -          -     84.0L  16.0L  467.0
(292.0)                                              (292.0)
T.locommunications       16.6     -          -          -             1.0OL    17.6
(14.0)                                               (14.0)
Consulting services       -       -          -          -     18.0    1.0    14.0
(13.0)         (13.0)
Total              814.0    145.0      6.0        1.5    69.0   21.0    666.6
(811 6)    (8.0)    (6.0)      ( i )  (I --)  -      (87. 0)
L   Following procedures of the cofinanclers or International and local shopping procedures for
Bank funds.
/b Includes taxes and duties (paid by the owner), administration and overheads.
Note: Figures In parentheses indicate amounts finane d from the proposed Bank loan.



- 31 -
Implementation Schedule
4.45     Annex 16, Charts 1, 2 and 3, give the implementation schedules for
the hydro renovation, distribution expansion and telecommunications components
of the project respectively. The distribution expansion and the telecom-
munication components will be completed by the middle of 1992, while the hydro
renovation will be completed by the end of 1993. The project implementation
is expected to be completed in all respects by June 30, 1994. The closing
date of the loan will be December 31, 1994.
Disbursement
4.46     The Bank loan will be disbursed against approved contracts and will
cover: (a) 100Z of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials; (b) 10OZ of ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured items;
(c) 652 of local expenditures for other items procured locally (ex-shelf); and
(d) 100? of expenditures for the services of consultants. No disbursements
will be made for expenditures prior to the loan signing. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of
US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank.
4.47     Annex 17 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan.
The disbursements against this loan are expected to be faster than the profile
for power projects in Indonesia because of the high proportion of the
distribution component which covers a two-year timeslice and where the Bank
loan would be disbursed against procurement of goods only.
Ecology
4.48     No environmental hazards are foreseen in the implementation of this
project. The proposed measures to improve the operation and maintenance of
diesel plants should, if anything, reduce pollution due to exhaust gases and
noise. The hydro renovation program does not envisage any encroachment on
land resources or human habitats. The distribution component will be carried
out in accordance with current technological practices and will cause minimum
disturbance to the environment. PLN uses insulated conductors for the low-
voltage overhead lines, which minimizes the requirement of tree cutting for
their construction and maintenance. Suralaya steam power plant where the
efficiency improvement measures are concentrated, was funded by previous Bank
loans (1708-IND and 1872-IND) and has been designed to meet the Bank's
environmental guidelines. Efficiency improvement measures that will be
undertaken will ensure that the design objectives are achieved or exceeded.



- 32 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Results
5.1        PLN's financial operating results for 1980181 to 1987/88 are
summarized in Table 5.1. Historical financial statements are given in Annex
18.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PLN'S FINANCIAL OPERATING RESULTS,
1960/61-1967/U8
Fiscal yer               1980/61  1981/82  1962/83  1983/84  1984/8S  1966/66  1966/87  1987/88
Enorgy solos (OWh)        6,628    7,646    9,101   10,000   11,041   12,706    14,786   17,077
Sales lncreae (X)           22.1     20.3     16.0      9.9      10.4     16.1      16.4     16.5
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)   41.4      43.8     66.6     76.0      97.8     98.6      93.6     92.6
Operating rovenues
(Rp bin)                  284      356       635      787    1,111    1,268      1,426    1,629
Operating expenses
(Rp bin)                  258      376       671      800    1,119    1,278      1,292    1,685
Operating income (Rp bIn)    26       (19)     (36)      (13)      (6)     (10)       138       (6)
Net Incor  (Rp bin)           20      (20)     (41)      (32)     (46)     (65)        37    (132)
Rate base (Rp bin) La        787      976    1,216    1,497    1,998    2,779      8,867    6,098
Rate of return (X) /a        a.5    (1.9)    (3.0)    (0.9)    (0.4)    (0.8)        3.4      (0.1)
Capital investment (Rp bin) 803       498      S86      981    1,030    1,408      1,712    1,918
Self-financing ratio (3)
Annual                 37.0      26.8     30.6    18.2      11.4       8.7      23.0      1.0
Three-year average /b  28.4      29.9     80.8    23.6      18.3      12.2      15.3     10.7
Debt service coverage
(times)                     -     10.8       6.8      8.6      2.4      1.7        2.6      1.1
Debt/debt plus equity (%)c 9.8       14.1     17.8     27.4      82.8     36.1      39.9     40.5
Operating ratio (X)           91      105      107      102       101      100        91      100
Current ratio (times)       4.6       8.4      2.4      2.2       2.6      2.1       1.3      1.1
La   Based on revalued assets (par&. 6.26).
Lb   Three-year moving average (current plus two precoding years).
/c   Excluding revaluation surplus.
5.2        During 1981/82-1985/86,  PLN's operating revenues and expenses
increased at about the same rate, averaging about 35? p.a. PLN's energy sales
grew at an average annual compound rate of about 142. Although the average



- 33 -
revenue per kWh sold increased by 18.52 p.a. over the period, PLN's
profitability was negative. This situation resulted from the Government's
policy during this period of permitting tariff increases that were just
adequate to meet the increases in operating costs, caused mainly by increases
in fuel prices. Nevertheless, throughout this period, PLN had comfortable
liquidity, good debt service coverage, and an adequate capital structure as a
result of substantial paid-in capital. The Government enabled PLN to proceed
with the sizeable investment program by providing equity capital, which
reflected in its healthy debt/equity ratio and debt service coverage. In
1986/87, PLN achieved a positive operating income, a positive net income, and
a positive rate of return (3.42) on net revalued assets. PLN's net internal
generation of funds in 1986/87 was about Rp 394 billion (US$232 million) and
its annual self-financing ratio (SFR) was 23.02 on a total capital investment
of about Rp 1,712 billion (US$1,007 million). Its operating ratio (91X) and
debt service coverage ratio (2.6 times) showed significant improvements, and
its debt to total capitalization ratio (excluding revaluation surplus)
increased to about 402.
5.3      The outcome for 1987/88 showed a substantial deterioration in PLN's
financial performance compared to that in 1986/87, due to several factors
including (a) the devaluation of the Indonesian currency in September 1986;
(b) inflation; and (c) substantial increases in the proportion of oil-based
generation in 1987/88 compared to 1986/87, mainly due to the drought of 1987.
To meet an increase of about 152 in sales, PLN's operating expenses in 1987/88
increased by 262. resulting in an operating ratio of 1002 and a ROR of -0.12.
As a result, the debt service coverage declined to 1.1 times and the annual
SFR was about 1Z. The Government did not permit tariff adjustment during
1988, which resulted in further deterioration of PLN's financial performance
in 1988/89 (para. 5.10). However, the Government approved on March 27, 1989,
an average increase of about 252 in the electricity rates effective
April 1, 1989, which is expected to restore and improve PLN's profitability
(para. 5.11).
Regional Operations
5.4      Considerable disparity exists in PLN's regional operating perfor-
mances. PLN's Java operations, which include large central power stations
supplying electricity through an interconnected grid system, are largely
commercially-oriented and profitable. PLN's non-Java operations are mainly
small-scale and dispersed over a large number of islands, and encompass over
600 separate generation and supply networks. Most of them are highly unprofi-
table, and have a negative impact on PLN's overall finances. The selected
1986/87-1987/88 financial indicators for PLN's Java and non-Java operations,
presented in Table 5.2, illustrate the substantial operational differences
between the two operations.



- 34 -
Table 5.2: SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR PLN AND ITS JAVA
AND NON-JAVA OPERATIONS, FY 1986/87 - 1987/88
FY 1996/37                   FT 1987/St
Java    Non-Java   Total PLN    Java   Non-Java  Total PUN
Energy sales (OWh)         11,577    8,209    14,78J      18,890    8,679    17,077
Soles Incrase (3)           16.2      20.9      16.4        15.7    14.6      1.5
Operating revenues (Rp billion 1,095  380       1,42C      1,256     874      1,629
Operating *xpenses (Rp billion)  848  444       1,292      1,108     532      1,685
Operating income (Rp billion)    247    -114     138         162    -158         -6
Not incom  (Rp billion)      176    -189          37          62    -184       -182
Rate base (Rp billion)      2,846    1,021      3,867      8,652    1,441     6,093
Rate of return (X)           8.7   -11.1          3.4        4.2    -10.9      -0.1
Operating ratio (X)           78      135         91         88      142        100
5.5      In 1986/87, PLN's Java operations generated an operating profit of Rp
247 billion, with a ROR of about 8.7Z, which exceeds the 82 ROR target of the
current revenue covenant (para. 5.7). The non-Java operations, however,
incurred an operating loss of Rp 114 billion with a ROR of about -11.12, and
thereby brought down PLN's overall operating profit to Rp 133 billion and the
ROR to 3.4Z. Nevertheless, the operating results of PLN's non-Java operations
showed an improving trend in 1986/87 compared to the results in 1985/86.
While the non-Java sales increased by about 212 in 1986/87, the related
operating expenses increased by about 13.8Z, and the ROR improved to -11.1Z
from -14.2Z in 1985/86.
5.6      The factors discussed in para. 5.3 impinged heavily on PLN's Java
operations, for which the operating ratio rose from 78Z in 1986/87 to 882 in
1987/88, largely as a result of an increase of about 32Z in fuel expenses
because of 192 higher oil-based generation and 15Z lower hydro generation.
Also, the Java operations' rate base grew by about 28Z from 1986/87 to 1987/88
due to the addition of new assets, the cost of about 802 of which was affected
by the rupiah devaluation, and asset revaluation. As a result, the ROR for
the Java operations declined in 1987/88 to 4.2Z.
Financial Objectives
5.7      In the revenue covenant agreed under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND, 1987), PLN was required to: (a) realize
for its Java operations, by no later than its fisca. year 1988/89 and in each
fiscal year thereafter, an annual ROR of not less than 8Z, and (b) for its
non-Java operations, achieve a break-even situtation in each of its fiscal
years beginning with fiscal year 1990/91, i.e., total revenues equivalent to
not less than the sum of their (i) total operating expenses, and (ii) the



- 35 -
amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for
depreciation. A covenant under Loan 2778-IND also required PLN to carry out
an action plan for efficiency improvements for all its operations, in a manner
to ensure that the break-even requirements of the revenue covenant for the
non-Java operations are achieved.
5.8      The principal financial objectives underlying the revenue covenant
are that PLN should achieves in the short term, sufficient overall profit-
ability for it to cover its operating expenses, realize positive annual rates
of return, meet its debt service requirements, maintain adequate liquidity,
and self-finance about 20Z of its annual capital expenditures; and in the
medium term, to improve its profitability further to self-finance about 30-352
of its capital expenditures, and rely mostly on borrowings to finance the
balance, confining the Government's contributions to programs that involve the
building of infrastructure rapidly and supplying electricity to the targeted
low income groups at affordable rates. Such a strategy should enable the
share of PLN's retained earnings in total equity to rise, with the debt/total
capital ratio remaining below 552 and the debt service coverage staying above
2.0 times. To achieve these financial objectives, PLN will need to undertake
measures to improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of its operations
(para. 3.8), and the Government will need to permit tariff adjustments for
increases in costs due to fuel price rises, inflation and exchange rate
depreciation.
Present and Future Performance
5.9      PLN's actual financial performance for 1986/87-1987/88, the estimate
for 1988/89 and projections for 1989/90 through 1994/95 and related income
statements for its Java and non-Java operations are summarized in Table 5.3.
Detailed estimates and projections are given in Annex 18, and notes and
assumptions underlying the projections are given in Annex 19. In the projec-
tions, the sales growth and investment requirements for the Java and non-Java
operations are based on the PLN's latest demand forecasts and the related
power development plan agreed with the Bank (paras. 2.8 and 2.9).



- 36 -
Tablu S,3: PNINS FPDW4ACIL rPW4AC.
1s6/67-19.4/95
Aetual        Estimate                       Proaectlan-
F;isal year                       194/a7    1907/61   1g0/09  l"9/o0  1990/91   1991/92   1912/93   1s9/4    19"4/06
Av gr- Rv  enue (p kWh)
PIN total                        90.3       92.6      92.3    11S.0    120.5        1W.4      180.4    13.0        141.0
Inere.. (2)                   (3.3)     (0.9)      (0.4)    25.0        4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0
Java                             91.7      91.0       90.6    11S.2    117.7        192.4     127.      U12.4      137.7
Inerase  (3)                  (3.4)      (0.3)     (0.4)    25.0        4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0
Nant-Java                        9.9        90.5,     9i.s    125.2    130.2        135.4     140.6    140.5       132.5
Increase (1)                  (2.9)      (1.4)     (0.2)    27.3        4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0
fEnarar  Sal" (.)
U  total                         14,7U      17,077   19,06    22.697    26,112   29,92  34.169  30&,00          43.062
Java                            11l7s    1S,398   15.501   17,734    20,293   21,235  26.486 #0.065              33,973
Non-Jave                          3.209      3,679    4.311    4943        5.619    6,097    7.611   S,705        9.69
fineratine Rev-nu-- (e bi l ion)
PLN total                         1,425      1.629    1.690    2.694       3.22    s3,3m   4,567   5.560          0.321
Java                              1.095      1.255    1,450    2,057       2.442    2.905    3,442   4.000        4,760
Non-Jave                            330       874       440       037        730      933    1.115    1.326       1.553
omarstina Exaenoae (Rp billion)
P-N total                         1,292      1.635    1,967     2.251      2.97    2,995   3,415    3,651        4,359
Java                                648     1.103     1.373    1,526       1,762    2,052   2.370    2.663        3,043
NMn-Java                            444        532      694       723        635      943   1.040    1.183        1.816
Oseratina Inome (RP billion)
PiN total                           1SS           (6)   (77)      443        62S       43   1.141    1.535        1.962
Java                                247         152      77       520        630      0ES   1,072    1,397        1,725
Non-Jave                           (114)        (15)   (154)      (86)       (55)      (10)     69      130         237
RLts.iAaa (Rp billion)
PLI total                          ,067      5,093    6.924   0.955       10.62S    12.173  13.957  17,006       20,411
Java                              2,041      J,6e2    4.900   0,614        7,772    6.641   9.102   12.050       14,639
Non-Java                          1,021       1.441    1.944    2,841      2,886     3,532   4.1ES    4,95       5,772
Rate of Return (I) La
PLN total                         3.4       (0.1)     (1.1)      4.9       5.9       6.9        6.2       9.0        9.6
Java                              0.7       4.2        1.5       8.0       8.7       9.9       10.9      11. 6      11.
Non-Jave                        (11. )     (10.9)     (7.6)     (3.7)    (1.9)       (0.3)      1.7       2.6        4.1
Oferatine Ratio ()
PUN total                            91         100     104        l4         1        so       75       72         s6
Java                                 78         s8       94        74        72        71       69       U           64
Non-Java                            135         142     1n        113        107       101      94       90          66
E^ico for PLN
Current ratio (time)                1.3         1.1     1.4       1.5        1.8      2.0      2.2      2.3         2.3
Debt/debt plus equity (W)          39.9        40.5    43.5      40.1       40.9     44.4    43.2    50.4          51.6
Self-financing ratio (1)
Annual                          23.0         1.0     0.8      20.6       27.8     29.5    31.8    37.9          43.1
3-year average L                15.3        10.7     6.7       8.0       16.5     26.6    30.0    33.6          38.1
Debt service coverage (tiae)        2.6         1.1     1.3       2.0        2.5      2.9      3.5      4.1         5.1
LI On r-valued rate bas..
Lk Excluding revaluation surplus.
/e Three-year aeving average (current plus two provious years).



- 37 -
5.10     As mentioned in para. 5.3, the financial performance of PLN is expected
to deteriorate in 1988/89 compared to 1987/88. The operating ratio for the Java
operations is estimated to rise from 87Z in 1987J88 to 94? in 1988/89. With an
estimated growth of about 35? in the rate base for 1988189, the ROR in that year
for Java operations would decline to 1.52 from the 4.2? achieved for 1987/88,
with PLN's ROR becoming negative (-1.1?) and the annual SFR remaining about 1Z.
5.11     With the adjustment of its tariff, effective April 1, 1989 (para. 5.3),
PLN's financial position is expected to improve substantially in 1989/90, with
the ROR for the Java operations rising to 8? and that of PLN as a whole to about
4.9?, with an annual self-financing ratio (SFR) of about 20?. PLN will achieve
further improvements in its financial position through efficiency gains, if the
tariff is adjusted periodically to compensate for changes in those costs that
are outside PLN's control, such as fuel costs, exchange rate depreciation and
inflation. In the financial projections, which are based on constant fuel
prices, the tariff is assumed to be adjusted annually by 4? for fiscal years
after 1989/90 to absorb the impact of increases in operating costs and in the
rate base assumed in the financial forecasts.
5.12     As reflected by its projected operating ratios, PLN's overall profit-
ability would improve substantially over the projection period, and its overall
annual rate of return would rise from about 4.9Z in 1989190 to about 9.6Z in
1994/95. The capital structure would remain satisfactory; the debt as a
percentage of debt plus equity (excluding revaluation surplus) would rise from
41? in 1987/88 to 512 in 1994/95, and its debt service coverage ratio would be
well in excess of 2.0 throughout the projection period. An existing covenant
under Loan 2778-IND requires that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
may not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of its net
revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its projected debt service requirements.
This covenant will continue under the proposed loan. PLN's current ratio is
expected to be about two times through most of the projection period; this would
provide adequate liquidity. With the projected level of financial performance,
PLN would meet the principal financial objectives underlying the revenue
covenant (para. 5.8).
5.13     The financial projections show that during the forecast period, the
profitability of PLN's Java operations would improve substantially, with the
operating ratio declining and the annual ROR rising, respectively, from the
estimated 94Z and 1.5? in 1988/89 to 74? and 8Z in 1989/90, and thereafter
continuing to improve to 64? and 11.8? in 1994/95. Consequently, the Java
operations would meet from 1989/90 onwards the ROR target of the revenue
covenant (para. 5.7). PLN's operations outside Java would be unable, however,
to achieve a financial break-even situation in 1990/91 (projected operating
ratio of 107? and operating loss of Rp 55 billion), as required under the
revenue covenant (para. 5.7), agreed under Loan 2778-IND. Crucial to reaching
the financial break-even outside Java is the implementation by PLN of an action
plan for sales promotion, efficiency improvement, and cost reduction in the
operation of a large number of isolated, scattered small systems. Based on the
current plans for system expansion and cost reduction, the financial projections



- 38 -
show that the operating ratio for the operations outside Java wou'd improve to
1012 in 1991/92 and a financial break-even would be achieved in 1992/93, when
the operating ratio is projected to be 942. In view of the above, under the
proposed loan the test years for the financial performance targets in the agreed
revenue convenant are revised as follows:
(a) an annual rate of return of not less than 8Z for the Java operations
in FY 1989/90 and fiscal years thereafter; and
(b) a break-even situation for the non-Java operations, beginning with
FY 1992/93.
5.14     In the financial projections, PLN's capital expenditures projected
for 1989/90-1994/95 are derived from the investment requirements and least-
cost expansion plans discussed in paras. 2.8-2. . These capital expenditures
(including interest during construction) total about Rp 29,110 billion
(US$17,123 million) in current prices. The financing plan assumed in the
financial projections for the Repelita V (1989/90-1993/94), is presented and
compared to that for the Repelita IV (1984/85-1988/89) in Table 5.4. Details
are given in Annex 18.
Table 5.4: COMPARISON OF FINANCING PLANS
Repelita IV              Repelita V
Fiscal year                         1984/85 - 1988/89       1989190 - 1993/94
Billion Rp   (Z)        Billion Rp   (X)
Capital expenditure                     9,017   100.0         21,865    100.0
Financed by:
Net internal sources la                 677      7.5         6,810      31.1
Borrowings                            4,752    52.7         10,985      50.3
Government contribution               3,588    39.8          4,070      18.6
Total                             9,017   100.0         21,865    100.0
/a  Including consumers' contributions and deposits, and adjusted for changes
in working capital.
5.15     In the projected financing plan for the Repelita V (1989/90-1993/94),
the Government's contribution is estimated to ue about 192, compared to about
402 for the Repelita IV period, with the annual contribution declining to 16Z in
1991/92, and to 9Z in 1993/94. PLN's own contribution from its internal sources
is projected to increase from about 7? during Repelita IV to about 31Z during
Repelita V, with annual SFRs increasing from about 20? in 1989/90 to about 38?
in 1993/94. Borrowings would cover about 502 of the financial requirements
during the Repelita V, almost at the same level as in the Repelita IV.



- 39 _
Performance Monitoring
5.16     The revenue covenant agreed under Loan 2778-IND (para. 5.7), where
separate financial performance targets are adopted for PLN's Java and non-Java
operations, will be retained under the proposed loan. The target years would,
however, be revised under the proposed project, as discussed in para. 5.13.
5.17     For monitoring the financial performance under the revenue covenants
for PLN's Java and non-Java operations, PLN has been providing the Bank, as
agreed during negotiations of the loan for the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND), with separated historical financial
results (beginning with its fiscal year 1986187) and forecasts on a proforma
basis, but not separate audited financial statements. Accounting for PLN's Java
and non-Java operations is separate except for overhead expenses, and debt
service payments, which have been difficult to separate except on a notional
basis. It was also agreed with PLN that, while initially the overhead expenses
and debt service payments could be allocated on the basis of unit sales of
energy, PLN will pursue the separation of debt service payments on the basis of
actual debt and related service payments. Simultaneously, there is also a need
to pursue a financing strategy that provides a higher proportion of equity
contribution and concessional funding to investments outside Java, which have a
higher social content. These objectives will be pursued as a part of ongoing
dialogue with GOI and PLN.
5.18     As an important step towards improved efficiency, PLN needs to obtain a
better understanding of the costs associated with its substantial socially-
directed activities (e.g., rural electrification), particularly in the opera-
tions outside Java, which are not commercially viable and pose a growing burden
on PLN (paras. 5.4-5.5). To assess the impact on its finances of such activi-
ties, PLN has agreed to implement a system for segregating financial and
operating information on rural electrification activities both for Java and
outside Java operations, which, as a first step, will serve as a proxy for
socially-directed activities. The data generated by this system would provide a
basis for the Government to assess the extent to which it should assist PLN to
sustain and expand the agreed socially-directed electrification programs. Under
the proposed loan, it was agreed with PLN that such information will be compiled
and submitted to the Bank, along with the annual accounts.
Tariffs
5.19     PLN's current tariff schedules, which became effective April 1, 1989,
comprise 21 consumer categories, compared to 17 consumer categories in the
previous schedules. A separate tariff category has been established for large
social institutions, and three new tariff categories have been established for
the hotels that were previously included in the industrial consumer categories.
For all except the smallest domestic class, two-part charges are applied. For



- 40 -
medium and large industrial, and large commercial consumers, and for large
office buildings, time-of-day pricing is in effect. The current tariff schedule
and the history of past tariff increases are given in Annex 20.
5.20     Under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND),
agreements were reached that (a) PLN will periodically review its long run
marginal cost (LRMC) and tariff structure, and discuss the results of the review
with the Government and the Bank, and (b) before December 31 in each year, PLN
will review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirements of the revenue
covenants (para. 5.7). Such a review will take into account the results of the
review of the LRMC-based structure and an action plan for efficiency improve-
ments to achieve, inter alia, the requirements of the break-even revenue
covenant for the non-Java operations (para. 5.7). These covenants will be
continued under the proposed loan.
5.21     In September 1987, PLN completed a study of its LRMC of supply in Java,
which was reviewed by the Bank. The study indicated that PLN's average revenue
in 1987/88 would have been Rp 106.3/kWh if the tariff of each consumer category
was set at the estimated LRMC of supply in Java. With the current tariff
schedule, PLN's average revenue in 1989/90 is estimated to be Rp 115.8/kWh. The
current level of the electricity tariff is close to or above the LRHC of supply
for all categories of consumers except small social institutions, and small
residential and small industrial consumers. The abovementioned LMRC study also
indicated that there was a need to apportion a larger percentage of the electri-
city price to the demand charge (fixed charge) for all categories of consumers,
and to increase the peak energy charges for several consumer categories, parti-
cularly for industrial consumers. Under the current tariff effective April 1,
1989, the demand charge has been raised by 50Z for all categories of consumers,
and energy charges have been raised significantly for both peak and off-peak
uses of electricity. Two issues remain in the current structure of tariffs.
The first is the continuation of the substantial cross-subsidy to small social
institutions, small residential consumers and small industrial consumers, all of
whom continue to be charged rates that are lower than the LRMC of supply; and
second, there is a scope for recovering a larger proportion of revenue through
the demand charge (fixed charge) rather than the energy charge. These matters
will be kept under review as part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the
Government and PLN in the context of the periodic reviews of the adequacy of
electricity tariffs.
Taxes
5.22     In accordance with the prevailing tax legislation effective since 1984,
PLN is subject to a 1OZ value-added tax (VAT) and to corporate income tax. The
Government currently bears the VAT on the foreign contracts, and PLN bears it on
the local contracts; this policy is assumed to continue throughout the projec-
tion period. With respect to corporate income tax, the current Indonesian tax
code permits the use of accelerated depreciation of assets in operation, instead
of the straight-line method used by PLN in its financial accounting. As a
result, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax for its fiscal year
1988/89, and during the projection period. In calculating the rate of return,
however, any income tax payments will be taken into account.



41 -
Financing Policy
5.23     The Government provides substantial financial assistance to PLN in
various forms, the most important of which is equity. PLN is authorized by its
charter to borrow from local and foreign lenders and to issue its own obliga-
tions. However, in line with its policy for all State Corporations, the
Government secures all foreign borrowings on behalf of PLN and bears the foreign
exchange risk.
5.24     PLN prepares long-term development rlans for corporate and national
planning purposes, and also prepares multiyear financial forecasts and financing
plans. Based on these plans, the Government approves PLN's capital expenditures
and the operating budget one year at a time. Although the system of annual
budget approval will continue, formulation of a long-term financing strategy is
essential in view of the inherently long-term nature of electric utility
planning; most investment projects in the electricity sector have a multi-year
execution period. Preparation of a long-term financing strategy, where the
parameters of the capital structure of PLN -- including the shares therein of
PLN's retained earnings, Government equity and debt -- are defined, helps in
more substantive policy discussions between PLN and the Government. Therefore,
an existing covenant (Loan 2778-IND) relating to this aspect of financial
planning will be continued under the proposed loan. This covenant requires
that, as part of its ongoing annual planning activities, PLN should prepare a
ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed development plan, and also
prepare for the first five years of the forecast period a financing plan that
should indicate the amount of external financing and the appropriate mix of
equity and debt, and if possible the potential sources of financing. The
covenant also requires that PLN's development plan, and related financial
forecast and financing plan should be reviewed and adopted by its Board, and
that these plans and the forecast should be submitted to and discussed with the
Government and the Bank.
5.25     It is desirable that PLN should bear the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan onlent to it by the Government. However, the Government has a policy
of bearing the foreign exchange risk for all the borrowings for the public
sector corporations (PERUM). In the Bank's past loans in the power sector, the
Government had not accepted any fee in the onlending rate to PLN, to cover the
foreign exchange risk. However, under the proposed loan, as a step in this
direction, the Government has agreed to charge fees to PLN, over the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, of 1.9Z to cover administrative charges and a
part of the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.41).
Asset Revaluation
5.26     PLN's assets have been revalued periodically.  The last detailed
revaluation was done in 1979/80 as required of all public corporations under
instructions of the Ministry of Finance. The revaluation was recorded in the
books and was accepted by the Bank. Fixed assets acquired after March 31, 1979
are appraised at cost. Following the currency devaluation in September 1986,
the Government issued Regulation No. 45/1986 dated October 2, 1986, providing
for the revaluation of assets of businesses and public corporations, acquired
through September 12, 1986. The Regulation specifies the annual revaluation



- 42 -
factors for the years 1970 to 1986 for adjusting the asset values as of January
1. 1987, and corporations had until December 31, 1987 to report the revalued
data. PLN has also prepared a revaluation of its assets for 1979180-1986/87
based on the Regulation; however, it has not yet been recorded in the books.
The methodology for asset revaluation was discussed during the loan negotia-
tions. and found satisfactory to the Bank. A covenant, under Loan 2778-IND,
that requires PLN to revalue annually its fixed assets (including work in
progress and consumers' contributions) and accumulated depreciation for the
purposes of the rate of return and break-even calculations undpr the revenue
covenant (paras. 5.7 and 5.16), is continued under the proposeu loan.



- 43 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION
6.1      The justification for the project rests on the need to provide the
Bank's support to the Government of Indonesia and PLN, in their effort to
improve the efficiency of the subsector through a package of actions involving
investments, technical assistance and policy actions (paras. 4.2 and 4.3).
Details of the expected benefit for each of the investment components of the
project are provided in the following paragraphs. The overall impact of the
project would be reflected in such performance indicators of PLN as (a) distri-
bution losses; (b) utilization of installed generating capacity of hydro, diesel
and steam power plants; (c) reduction of generation reserve margin to achieve
the desired reliability of supply; (to, fuel cost per unit; (e) manpower produc-
tivity in terms of employees per unit sold, and employees per consumer served;
and (f) efficiency of utilization of investments. Annex 8 summarizes these and
other performance indicators of PLN for the period 1979/80 to 1987/88. It is
expected that the various indicators would show improved performance as a result
of the project and other ongoing efforts. Capacity utilization should improve
from 55? to 651, the reserve margin should fall from 45? to 35?, the system
losses should fall from about 192 to 16?, and the fuel consumption for diesel
generating units should reduce by about 3Z.
Diesel Efficiency
6.2      Diesel generating capacity of 1,420 MW in 1988, provided about 602 of
the installed capacity outside Java. Over 2,000 diesel units are installed in
over 600 locations (para. 4.5). Various components of the diesel efficiency
program are designed to address the whole range of problems involving planning,
operation, maintenance, rehabilitation and training. The benefits of such a
program will be obtained in terms of better capacity utilization, better avail-
ability, reduced future investments and better fuel efficiency. It will be
ensured that for each subproject under this category, approved for funding from
the Bank loan, the economic rate of return will exceed 15?.
Hydro Renovation
6.3      Renovation of seven old hydro plants will serve two objectives viz:
(a) extension of the useful life of such plant components as turbines, genera-
tors and penstocks; and (b) recovery of derated capacity and enhancement of
energy capability to the extent of 24 MW and 110 GWh (para. 4.10).  Tne IERR on
the proposed investments, without taking into account the life extension
component of the benefit, is in the range of 15? to 32Z for various plants
included in the program.
Telecommunications
6.4      It is important for a power system to have efficient telecommunications
facilities to support its functions of system control, operation coordination,
load dispatching, safety and protection of equipment, operation, maintenance and
administration. The project will augment PLN's telecommunications facilities
not only to overcome the existing deficiencies but also to initiate the inte-
grated longer-term development of such facilities.



- 44 -
Distribution
6.5      PLNI needs to expand its distribution facilities to satisfy the demand
for electrizity from existing consumers as well as to extend supply to unelec-
trified areas. As discussed in para. 2.4, only 27S of the households in Java
are currently electrified. The development plans (para. 2.7) target an increase
in the household electrification ratio to reach 752 in urban areas and 29Z in
rural -reas by the end of 1993194. Investments required for generation facili-
ties to reach the electrification targets up to 1991/92 are committed and
ongoing. The generating capac~ity in Java will increase from to 6,100 MW in
1989/90 with the completion of plants already under construction which will be
adequate to meet the demand till the end of 1991/92. Also the necessary invest-
ments in transmission facilitie3 are committed and ongoing, mainly through the
Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND). The proposed
project provides funds for the distribution facilities that are required to
maintain a balance between generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
in this period.
6.6      The growth in the number of consumers connected to the PLN system in
Java and PLN's sales over the past five years has been rapid as shown in Table
6.1 below.
Table 6.1: GROWTH IN CONSUMER CONNECTIONS AND SALES IN JAVA
Number           Connected load         Sales
of consumers              MVA               GWh
Year                 (1 growth)            (Z growth)        (1 growth)
1982/83             2,611,306                  4,002             7,255
(17.6)               (17.5)             (16.8)
1983/84              3,007,159                 4,647             7,914
(15.2)               (16.1)              (9.1)
1984/85              3,513,923                 5,410             8.771
(16.8)               (16.4)             (10.8)
1985/86             4,050,974                  6,137            10,053
(15.5)               (13.4)             (14.6)
1986/87             4,710,337                  6,994            11,576
(16.1)               (13.2)             (15.2)
1987/88             5,418,700                  8,337            13,398
(15.0)               (19.2)             (15.8)
6.7      As discussed in paras. 2.7 and 2.8, unmet demand for electricity is
still large and economic justification exists to extend the supply network as
rapidly as the resources permit. The program agreed with the Government and PLN



- 45 -
under the proposed project is within PLN's capacity to implement, justified from
the viewpoint of balanced development of generation, transmission and distribu-
tion facilities, and consistent with the availability of financial resources.
Economic Rate of Return
6.8      In projects involving distribution networks where the benefits attribu-
table to the specific components of the expansion program are difficult to
assess and where the schemes represent an area and time slice of a total
development program, it is approlriate to evaluate the economic rate of return
of the entire program rather than attempt separate economic analysis of the
components. For this project, an economic analysis of the PLN's investment
program in Java for the period 1988/89-1991/92 of which the current project is a
part, was carried out. Annex 22 sets out the details.
6.9      The economic analysis uses the investment costs for generation, trans-
mission and distribution facilities that would be put in place during the
period. Investments for the generating plants (para. 6.5) incurred prior to
1987/88 are included in the cost stream. A shadow price factor of 0.8 is used
for locally procured equipment and materials which account for about 20Z of the
investments and a factor of 0.65 is used for unskilled labor which constitutes
about 1OX of the cost of the program. The balance of the investment costs are
not shadow priced since PLN would import equipment and materials on which it
pays no duties or taxes. The foreign exchange rate is its shadow price in
Indonesia due to an open foreign exchange environment. The incremental fuel
costs are derived from the computer simulation of system operation for the
period under study. Fuel costs have been valued at economic prices derived in
December 1988.
6.10     The benefits are derived by using the estimated incremental sales that
would result from the proposed investments. In addition to revenues to PLN,
consumer surplus has been quantified on the basis of *willingness to pay' of
industrial and residential consumers.
6.11     The willingness to pay for industrial consumers is estimated by two
methods. One, there is ample evidence that industrial consumers are willing to
pay the cost of electricity provided by captive diesel plant (para. 1.16), which
is in the range of Rp 120 to 200 per kWh, depending on the size of the installa-
tion and the usage pattern. Considering PLN's average revenue per kWh from
industrial consumers of about Rp 90, the willingness to pay would be in the
range of 1.3 to 2.2 times the current tariff. In an earlier study, a demand
curve was constructed using available information which showed that some
industrial consumers were willing to pay up to three times PLN's tariff and over
50Z of them were willing to pay over 1.5 times the cost of PLN's supply. Based
on such a survey the consumers' surplus for the industrial consumers was
estimated at 1.7 times PLN's industrial tariff. For the present analysis, a
factor of 1.5 is used.
6.12     Willingness to pay for residential consumers estimated in a Bank study
entitled 'Indonesia: Rural Electrification Review" (Report No. 6144-IND,
November 1986). The study concludes that the willingness to pay for residential
consumers is of the order of 2.0 to 2.5 times the prevailing tariff, mainly
consisting of the benefits for substitution of kerosene for lighting and other
uses of electricity such as additional lighting, use of electrical appliances
and television. For the present analysis, a multiplie- of 2.0 is used.



- 46 -
6.13     PLN's average tariff to commercial consumers is relatively high (about
Rp 200 per kWh). Hence the willingness to pay is equated to the current tariff.
Similarly, for the Government users and public supply such as street lighting
and mosques, the willingness to pay may be no higher than the current tariff and
the multiplier factor has been taken as 1.0.
6.14     The IERR for the investment program in Java works out to 18X.  It would
fall to 162 if the investment costs increase by 102 or if sales decline by 10X.
The IERR, with only revenue at current tariff as a benefit (ignoA:ing consuaer
surplus), works out to about 92.
Risks
6.15     There are no major risks associated with the implementation of the
various components of the proposed project. One possible risk is that the
implementation of some of the components may be delayed compared to the proposed
schedules. However, PLN has already initiated action to appoint consultants and
establish project implementation units to minimize the possibility of delays.
Special attention will be devoted to timely completion of procurement
activities, where delays could be experienced due to the rather cumbersome
procedures that exist in Indonesia.



-47-
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
7.1      During the negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
With GOI
(a) The Governmert will (i) establish an interdepartmental energy
pricing task force to review and advise Government on energy prices,
and (ii, establish and maintain within its Ministry of Mines and
Energy, an energy pricing unit that would be responsible for
providing analytical and technical support to the task force
(para. 1.13).
(b) The Government will prepLre and implement, in consultation with the
Bank, an action plan for introducing suitable regulatory and
contractual measures to utilize some of the captive (in-house)
generating capacity in industry, along with PLN's facilities,
to reduce investment costs and to promote economic cogeneration by
industry (paras. 1.16 and 1.17).
With PLN
(a) PLN will review annually the plan for distribution expansion in
Java, commencing March 31, 1990, to identify any changes necessary,
and thereafter adjust the plan and implement it in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.21);
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the rehabilitation of diesel plants,
PLN shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval reports
containing their evaluation and justification (para. 4.9);
(c) PLN will provide the Bank with segregated financial and operating
information on rural electrification activities, along with its
annual accounts (para. 5.18);
7.2      The following agreements reached during the negotiations are in
substance the same as those reached under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND):
(a) Review of PLN's development plans and investment program (para.
2.10);
(b)  Overdue electricity accounts of Government users (para. 3.13);
(c) Audited accounts and reports (para. 3.14);
(d) Action plan for efficiency improvement (para. 3.8);
(e)  Debt limitation (para. 5.12);



- 48 -
(f) Revenue requirements (paras. 5.13 and 5.16). The test years for the
achievement of the financial targets are revised as folltws:
(i) for the Java operations--FY1989/90, and fiscal years thereafter;
and
(ii) for the non-Java operations--FY1992/93, and fiscal years
thereafter;
(g) LRMC and tariff review (para. 5.20);
(h) Financing plan for the investment program (para. 5.24); and
(i) Asset revaluation (para. 5.26).
Condition of Effectiveness
7.3      Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PLN (para.
4.41) will be a condition of the effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Recommendations
7.4      With the above agreements and understandings, the proposed project is
suitable for a loan of US$337 million for a period of 20 years including a
five-year grace period, at the Bank's stAndard variable interest rate, to the
Republic of Indonesia.



INDONEI
O*gak9n haed <Xho MW1d MhW ald EWgf
D4 W L&t
I    rGd~~~~~ I                         I I  I
PI           PIW-P1



ANNEX 1
50                                                               Chairt 2
INDONESA
POWER SECTOR EWCIENCY PROJECT
Ogoniotlon Ctwd ot PWN
| d | r R~~~~~~~~~~~~~PN Regon I
ct  K to    * DSvKi Aj. of Ah:h
Coriart on_ _N Regn I
Inspectorate                                                                                        Noft 9Jtm
Dwectorate do|f                     Dwe&of&e of  |PRN Regnm                             I
Main Pra~ ~~~~~~lanigAdfwdabn ctRa
C; astrunction t nusad
r    etorate. of                                                      PL Reio V
Lpnoo                                                               West Bllmontun
Suerth andon oTr-Ensr SuioaSot. enrlan
Main Project                                                                                       PUN Reon Vi
NCath SUKItsonoE                                                                                         imnton
Main PfEqecl                                                                                       PLN Region Vll
GeneroFtion ond Trnrsln     __                                                                          North onci Central
West Sumatra                                                                                           Sul
Main Project                                                                                       PLN Reon Vill
Generation and Transmission  _S_uSc  ncw SauthEa
South Sumatra . Lmpung.                                                                                    Sulkeii
Jambi and Blengkulu
WofldBarflecPLN  I
Sct ndSEhEast=kSDu
|    Iiain Projfect                                                                                      PLN Region X
Transmmsson          __mma Java
East Jcavo
MamPren c                                                                                           PLN Rego xi
thermolPDe                                                                                        Fih. West and Eas
Easwr                                                                                             Nusa TenWior
Main Project                                                                                       PLN D~ribton
Genemratn (Thernal) rnb Trrans-                                                 .._East Jrava
ffLsdon - Central Jaw 
MainPret                l_                                                                            PLN Dztribution
I yFo  Powr=                                                                                             Central Jav
|C entfol Java
r   Main Pect   l                                                       |        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLN Distriution
|TmrdrnsOmi   Wsst Jas and Jokarl                                                    et vv                          rrava
|Rama - E H V TrZNuon and LDC                                                                      I. 
[   tWam Prr>ect   l                                                     |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLN Distrbution
I Thermoi R>er |- -l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jokorto Rnera and
|   westazvaand iekortaRava   {                                         }         ~~~~~~~~~~~Tanrarong
Maoin Project                   Engameernna |                                                     PLN Gsenwration
Htvdoroe PaAw                     Semices                                                          Eastern Java 
West Jova              z               Crener                                                                                I
|   MainProjct                       EetcPr                         |Educationad            LPNSertn
Physcal and supcivo lrWetemnav
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~o  Bonk4cu8 I;7LEaLa



-51 -                                ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Growth of PLN's Consumers and Sales
Fiscal               Number of                     Connected                Sales
year                consumers                     load MVA                 in GWh
1975/76             1,140,745                       1,426.4                  2,804
(5.0X)                       (13.0Z)               (14.7Z)
1976/77            1,208,538                        1,594.5                  3,082
(5.8Z)                       (11.8X)               (10.1)
1977/78            1,413,855                        1,939.2                  3,527
(17.0Z)                       (21.6Z)               (14.6X)
1978/79            1,783,246                        2,459.1                  4,287
(26.1Z)                       (26.8Z)               (21.6Z)
1979/80             2,246,657                        3,063.4                 5,343
(26.0%)                       (24.6Z)               (24.6Z)
1980/81             2,745,176                        3,744.2                 6,523
(22.22)                       (22.2Z)               (22.1Z)
1981/82             3,232,075                        4,502.8                 7,845
(17.7%)                       (20.3Z)               (20.3Z)
1982/83             3,802,421                        5,270.4                 9,101
(17.6Z)                       (17.0Z)               (16.0%)
1983/84             4,406.047                       6,126.7                 10,000
(15.92)                       (16.3Z)                (9.9Z)
1984/85             5,133,231                        7,120.7                11,041
(16.5%)                       (16.2%)               (10.4Z)
1985/86             5,953,293                       8,149.9                 12,706
(16.0%)                       (14.5Z)               (15.1%)
1986/87             6,965,580                        9,282.1                14,786
(17.0%)                       (13.9Z)               (16.4%)
1987/88             8,203,349                      10,710.7                 17,077
(17.8Z)                       (15.4Z)               (15.5%)
Source: PLN.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Growth of Captive Power In Indonesia
Java                                     Outside Java                                  Indomei 
Fiscal   Connected Not connec-                        Connected Not connec-                        Connoeted Not connec-
year     to PLN   ted to PLN   Total  Increase        to PLN   ted to PLN   Total  Increae         to PLN   ted to PLN   Total   Increase
------------ (MVA) ------------    ()        ------------ (WVA) ------------    ()- ------------ (MVA) ----- -----   (X)
1974/76         -           -         -       -             -            -          -      -           622.7    1,447.6  2,070.3       13.0
1976/76         -           -          -      -             -            -          -       -          689.4    1,5".8 2,297.2         10.4
1976/77         -           -          -      -             -            -          -      -           731.5    1,670.0  2,401.5         6.0
1977/78         -           -          -      -             -            -          -      -           397.1    1,767.1  2,674.2        7.0
1978/79         -           -          -       -            -            -          -       -          843.9    1,360.9  2,709.7         5.0
1979/80         -           -          -      -             -            -          -      -           872.2    1,911.5  2,7J8.7        3.0
1980/81         -           -         -       -             -            -          -      -           878.3    1,980.6  2,809.9        0.9
1981/82         -           -          -      -             -            -          -      -           079.7    1,933.9  2,813.6        0.2
1982/83         -           -         -       -             -            -         -       -           900.8    2,073.1  2,973.9        5.7
1983/84    921.0        918.2   1,639.2      -          212.2      1,456.6  1,668.7        -         1,333.2    2,374.7  8,507.9       18.0
1984/85   1,021.4     1,063.0   2,074.4   12.8          289.7      1,347.8  1,637.6    (1.9)         1,311.1    2,400.0 8,711.9         6.8
1986/86   1,478.0     1,223.2   2,702.0   30.3          368.5      1,356.3  1,716.8      4.8         1,837.3    2,U1.5  4,418.8        19.0
1986/87   1,928.3     1,244.5   3,167.8   17.2          272.3      1,397.7   1,670.0    (2.7)        2,196.6    2,642.2  4,887.8        9.5
1987/88   2,095.3     1,130.1   3,225.4    1.8          334.1      1,614.6  1,648.7    10.7          2,429.4    2,644.7  5,074.1        4.8
Note: The above *xcludes the following major installations:
Krakatau Steel (West Java)         50O. MW                                                                                                 >
P.T. INCO      (PLN Region VIII)  206.8 MW                                                                                                z
ASANAN         (PLN Region II)    763. 8 lW
ARUN LNG       (PIN Region I)      165.0 w
CALTEX Oil     (PIN Region III)    272.5 MW
Source: PLN.



ANNEX 4
- 53 -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Pook Load. Production and Installed CapocitY
Java Sr teM
Actual
1997/0S  1908/89  1969/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/9J  1998/94   1994/96
Sales (Gwh)                  18,396   16,345   17,647   20,293   28,235   26,486   30,066    33,973
Rie of growth (X)            16.7     16.8      16.0     16.0     14.6     14.0      13.5      13.0
TID losso.  (3)              18.3     17.1     16.6     16.1      16.7     15.2     14.7       14.3
Gross generation (GWh)    17,678   19,701   22,517   25,737   29,166   82,762  38,477    39,888
System peak load (MW)      2,862    3,250    3,714    4,246    4,882    6,476    6,178       6,941
System load factor (3)         70       69       69       69        69       69       69         69
Instal led CaPciRty (MW)
--yldr  P-r rient
,;:n:ow*                 1,236    1,236    1,236    1,236    1,235    1,236    1,235       1,236
Wades LUteng #1-2            0        16       16       i6        16       16       16         16
Mrica #1-3                   0        60     1t0       180       180      180      180        180
Songguruh                    0        29       29       29        29       29       29        29
Cirats                       0       500      500      500       500      500      500        500
Cilimun                      0         0        0        0        0         0       10         10
Tulungagung                  0         0        0        0        0         0       30        30
Kedungoabo                   0         0        0       23        23       23       23         23
Subtotal                 1.236    1.840    1.960    1.983    1.983    1.983    2.023      2.023
Steam Power Plant
Residual Oil
Basis                  1,476    1,475    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,200    1,200       1,200
Grouik #3-4                0       400      400        0        0         0        0         0
Subtotal                1.476    1.876    1.800    1.400    1.400    1.200    1.200       1.200
Natural Gas
Grnik T -4, 1-2            0         0        0      400      400       6oo      6oo       6oo
Subtotal                    2         _        0      400      400       600      6oo       6oo
Coal
Bnnin                     800      600      800      800       800      800      800        800
Suralaya t3-6              0       400      800      800      800       800      800     1,400
Paiton #1-2                0         0        0        0        0         0      800       800
Subtotal                  600    1.200    1.600    1.600    1.600    1.600    2,400       3,000
Gas Turbine Power Plont
Distillat. Oil
Basis                    660       630      530      530      630       530      630       445
Subtotal                  660       630      630      530      530       630      530       445
Natural Gas                 80        80       80       80        80       80       80        80
Geothermal Power Plant
Ksmojang t1-3               140      140      140      140       140      140      140        140
Salsk #1-2                   0         0        0        0       110      110      110        110
Drajat #1-2                   0        0        0        0         0      110      110        110
Subtotal                  140       140      140      140      260       360      360       360
Combined-Cycle (Gas)
East Jva #1-3                0         0        0        0        0       6o0      900       900
Subtotal                    O         2        _        _        2       6o0      900       900
Total                   4,280    5.6R6    6.110    6.133    6.243    6.963    8.093       8.708



- 54 -
*              ~~~~~ANNUEX C
INOONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Peak Load. Production and Installed Capacity Outside Java
Actual
1967/83  1986/69  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96
Sales (GWh)                  3,679    4,337    6,050    5,819    6,697    7,681    6,735    9,669
o-t  of growth (X)          14.6     17.9     16.4     15.2      15.1     14.7     14.4     12.6
T&D losse  (X)              18.8     17.3     16.6     16.3     15.6    15.4       14.9    14.4
Gross generation (CWh)     4,726    6,609   6,377    7,304    8,364    9,626   10,629   12,119
System peak load (MW)        971    1,104    1,261    1,437    1,621    1,644    2,081    2,327
System load factor (U)        66       6?7      53       5        69       69        59       69
Installed Copuclt  (MW)
Hydro P.1orpliant
Waasi                    161.9    161.9    161.9    161.9    161.9    161.9    161.9    161.9
Min7  hydro                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6     12.0     24.4     37.2
Teo I #1-4                 0.0      0.0     16.0     16.0     16.0     16.0       6.O    16.0
Tonggarl I                 0.0     17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0      17.0     17.0
Tanggeri II                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      19.0    19.0
Sakaru t1-2                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   126.0   126.0   126.0   126.0
Subtotal                181.9   198.9    214.9    214.9    341.6    362.9    384.3    397.1
Diesel Power Plant       1.419.8  1,681.2  1.673.4  1,619.0  1,629.7  1,608.1  1,S79.2  1,661.7
Steam Power Plont
Natural Gas
Beoao j                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Kramsean #1-2            0.0      0.0    26.0    25.0    26.0    26.0         25.0    26.0
Belawan 91-2             0.0      0.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0    130.0
Subtotal                  0.0      0.0    156.0    165.0    155.0    165.0    165.0    165.0
Coal
Fe-sis                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Ombilin 91-2             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Bukit Asom #1-4         66.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   196.0   195.0   196.0
Balikpapan #1-2          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    100.0   100.0
Banjormawin t1-3         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    60.0
Subtotal                 e6.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   295.0   396.0   445.0
Residual Oil
ffanio1-8-             180.0   180.0    26.0    26.0    25.0    25.0          26.0    26.0
Belawan t3-4             0.0      0.0      0.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0
Subtotal                180.0    180.0     26.0    155.0    165.0    166.0    156.0    166.0
Peat
Pontianak I              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    22.0
Subtotal                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     22.0
Gas Turbine Power Plant
Natural Gas
Brnio                  111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0
Payapasir 91-2           0.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Belawan #1-2             0.0    100.0   200.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Subtotal                111.0   241.0   341.0   141.0   141.0   141.0   141.0   141.0
Distillate Oil
Basis                  183.0   153.0    138.0    138.0    138.0    138.0    138.0    138.0
Pandang                  0.0      0.0      0.0     20.0     20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0
Subtotal                183.0   153.0   138.0   168.0   158.0   168.0    158.0   158.0
Combined-Cyclo (Gaul
Power Pnt
Project                    0.0      0.0      0.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   600.0
Subtotal                  0.0      0.0      0.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   600.0
Total                 2,140.7  2,484.1  2.577.3  2,72.9  3.010.2  3,165.0  3.287.6  3.634.8



- 55 -ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Investment Program - Indonesia
(All costs in constant 1987 US$ million)
Total
FY89/90  FY90/91  FY91/92  FY92/93  FY93/94  FY94195    FY90-95
Diesel
Foreign cost        21.5     15.2       6.8       8.7      8.0      11.0      71.2
Local cost           8.5       6.1      3.6       3.6      4.2       4.3      30.3
Gas turbine
Foreign cost        60.0       3.2      0.0       0.0      9.0      13.4      85.6
Local cost          25.3       0.3      0.0       0.0      2.0       1.3      28.9
Hydro
Foreign cost        67.0     51.4      92.7    138.9    175.3    255.3       780.6
Local cost          39.1      35.7     61.9      76.3     99.2    140.2      452.4
Steam oil
Foreign cost        21.5     69.0      11.4      71.6     65.1      61.1     299.7
Local cost           4.6       2.8      4.9       8.1      8.6       9.1      38.1
Steam coal
Foreign cost       117.4    283.3    464.6    572.4    618.8    626.3   2,682.8
Local cost          54.2    109.2    168.5    200.2    219.3    221.1        972.5
Geo thermal
Foreign cost        29.2     17.2       8.1       5.1      6.0       9.2      74.8
Local cost           5.8       3.5      1.8       1.0      0.7       0.8      13.6
Combined cycle
Foreign cost         0.0    114.4    151.2       75.6     10.8       0.0     352.0
Local cost           0.0      16.4     27.2      18.9      4.2       0.0       66.7
Transmission
Foreign cost        68.0     48.4      56.5    103.6      60.4      49.3     386.2
Local cost          23.9      14.6     20.0      22.5     22.5      20.4     123.9
Substation
Foreign cost       111.8    107.6    112.3    129.4    161.1    165.4        787.6
Local cost          14.0      15.4     17.4      18.4     23.3      23.6     112.1
Consumer
Foreign cost        27.0     28.1      29.3      30.7     32.2      34.3     181.6
Local cost          27.0      28.1     29.3      30.7     32.2      34.3     181.6
MV Line
Foreign cost        67.7     76.9      85.5      94.0    102.0    109.1      535.2
Local cost          68.6      77.8     86.4      94.9    102.7    109.8      540.2
LV line
Foreign cost        42.2     47.8      53.1      58.4     63.3      67.8     332.6
Local cost          42.7      48.4     53.6      58.9     63.8      68.2     335.6
Dist transformer
Foreign cost        31.3     35.9      40.0      44.0     48.3      51.8     251.3
Local cost          31.3      35.9     40.0      44.0     48.3      51.8     251.3
Other investment
Foreign cost         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Local cost          20.2      25.8     32.5      38.2     39.8      42.8     199.3
Subtotal
Foreign cost       664.5    898.3  1,111.6  1,332.4  1,360.3  1,454.1   6,821.2
Local cost         365.3    419.9    547.4    615.6    670.8    727.8   3,346.8
Total           1,029.8  1,318.2  1,658.9  1,948.0  2,031.1  2,181.9  10,168.0
Note: Includes rural electrification.



ANNEX 7
- 56 
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Investment Program - Java System
(All costs in constant 1987 US$ million)
Total
FY89/90  FY9O/91  FY91/92  FY92/93  FY93194  FY94/95  FY90-95
Diesel
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Local cost            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Gas turbine
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       9.0     13.4      22.4
Local cost            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0      1.3       3.3
Hydro
Foreign cost         31.9     15.1      22.9     25.3      21.8     50.4    167.4
Local cost           13.4      7.4       9.8      8.2       5.5     14.7      59.0
Steam oil
Foreign cost          0.0     57.4       0.0     28.7       0.0      0.0      86.1
Local cost            0.0      0.1       0.0      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.2
Steam coal
Foreign cost         78.6    192.7    325.5    414.2    492.9    568.0  2,071.9
Local cost           43.4     85.6    133.8    168.7    197.7    209.8    839.0
Geothermal
Foreign cost         29.2     17.0       7.3      2.4       0.0      0.0      55.9
Local cost            5.8      3.5       1.7      0.6       0.0      0.0      11.6
Combined cycle
Foreign cost          0.0     86.4    151.2      75.6      10.8      0.0    324.0
Local cost            0.0     12.6      27.2     18.9       4.2      0.0      62.9
Transmission
Foreign cost         46.4     32.0      43.5     85.9      39.8     17.2    264.8
Local cost           13.2      8.3      13.3     14.5       8.9      7.2      65.4
Substation
Foreign cost         84.9     82.2      88.6    105.7    128.1    116.0    605.5
Local cost           10.3     11.9      13.9     15.0      17.0     17.6      85.7
Consumer
Foreign cost         19.2     20.0      20.9     21.8      22.8     24.2    128.9
Local cost           19.2     20.0      20.9     21.8      22.8     24.2    128.9
MV line
Foreign cost         45.5     51.8      57.7     63.9      70.4     77.0    366.3
Local cost           46.2     52.4      58.3     64.5      71.1     77.6    370.1
LV line
Foreign cost         29.2     33.2      36.9     40.8      44.9     49.0    234.0
Local cost           29.6     33.6      37.3     41.2      45.3     49.4    236.4
Dist. transformer
Foreign cost         24.4     28.1      31.2     34.5      37.9     41.5    197.6
Local cost           24.4     28.1      31.2     34.5      37.9     41.5    197.6
Other investment
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Local cost           11.9     17.6      22.7     25.7      25.8     28.0    131.7
Subtotal
Foreign cost        389.4    616.0    785.7    898.8    878.3    956.6  4,524.8
Local cost          217.5    280.9    370.1    413.7    438.1    471.1  2,191.8
Total            606.9    897.0  1,155.8  1,312.5  1,316.5  1,427.8  6,716.6
Note: Includes rural electrification.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN: Porformance Indicators
1979/80     1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      190S/86      1986/87      1987/88
1.  Installed capacity (MW)                    2,636        2,566       3,032        3,406        3,935        4,516        6,e36        6,200        6,421
2.  Peak demand (MW)                           1,276        1,677        1,876       2,286        2,413        2,603        2,966        3,403        3,833
3.  Capacity utilization (2)e(1)                0.60         0.62         0.62        0.67         0.61         0.68         0.63         0.SS         0.60
4.  Enorgy production (GWh)                    7,004        8,420       10,138      11,847       13,392       14,777       16,899       19,455       22,306
S.  Soles (GWh)                                5,343        6,523       7,845        9,101       10,000       11,041       12,706       14,786       17,077
6.  x growth in soles                           24.6         22.1         20.3        16.0          9.9         10.4         15.1         16.4         15.5
7.  Losses with station use (U)                 23.7         22.5         22.6        23.2         26.3         25.3         24.8         24.0         23.4
without station use (X)             19.5         19.1         18.7         19.1         20.8        20.6         19.8         19.6          18.7
8.  Number of consumers                    2,246,657   2,745,176   3,232,075   3,802,421   4,406,047   5,133,231   5,953,293   8,9e6,580   8,203,349
(S growth)                             (26.9)       (22.2)       (17.7)       (17.6)       (16.9)       (16.6)      (16.0)       (17.0)        (1?.8)
9.  Average revenue per kWh sold (Rp)           27.3         41.4         43.3        56.5         76.0         97.8         96.6         93.6         92.6
10.  Average fuol cost per kWh sold (Rp)          9.4         14.3         16.2        28.4         53.8         62.4         64.4         48.3         50.6
11.  Total manpower (employees)                30,130       32,951      36,791       39,962       44,909       49,696       51,290       61,671       51,203
12.  Consumers por employee                        76           83           90          96           98          103          116          135          16O
13.  Sales per employee (MWh)                     177          198          219         228          223          222          248          287          334       in
14.  Average fuel per kWh in central
thermal plants (oil) (liter)             0.30         0.30         0.30         0.29         0.27         0.29         0.29        0.29          0.30
15.  Rate base (Rp billion) La                      -          737          976       1,218        1,497        1,998        2,779        3,867        5,093
16.  Rate of return on revalued
rate base  (X)                           -3.7          3.6         -1.9         -3.0        -0.9         -0.4         -0.3          3.4         -0.1
17.  Operating ratio (S)                          114           91          105         107          102          101          101           91          100
18.  Current ratio (times)                        4.5          4.5         3.4          2.4          2.2          2.5          2.1          1.3          1.1
19.  Debt/equity ratio (X)                       7/93       10/90        14/88        17/83        27/73        32/68        36/64        40/60        41/69
20.  Dobt service coverage ratio
(times)                                     -            -         10.3         6.8          3.6          2.4          1.7          2.6          1.1
21.  Self-financing ratio (X)
(3-year moving average)                  20.0         28.4         29.9         30.3        23.6         18.3         12.2         15.3         10.7
22.  Overall customers' accounts
receivable (day's sales)                     68           e8           74           65           68           53           51           48           47
/a  Based on revalued assets.
Sz



ANNEX 9
- 58 -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Diesel Generation Efficiency Program - Cost Estimate
(USS million)
Local          Foreign         Total
Rehabilitation                       2.0            13.0           15.0
Relocation                           1.0             -              1.0
Maintenance improvement              1.0              4.0           5.0
Training                             1.0             4.0            5.0
Total                            5.0             21.0           26.0



- 59-                               ANEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Hydro Renovation - Plant Details and Scope of Work
Ubrug
1.        This station has a total capacity of 17.1 NW.  Of the three units
(horizontal francis), two units (5.4 MW each) were installed in 1924 and one
(6.3 MW) in 1939. They were manufactured by Stork of the Netherlands (Lic.
Charmilles). Two of the three penstocks were installed in 1924 and one in
1939. They have a minimum diameter of 1.7 meters.
2.        Present Situation.  The main problem at this station is that the
full installed capacity cannot be utilized because of the waterway restric-
tions. The units are still in good condition, mainly because of the reduced
load operation. The maximum output from the units are limited to 5.0 MW each
because of generator restrictions. The draft tube has some cavitation below
the runner; this problem could be improved by airation of the draft tube. One
of the governors is hunting. There are no spare parts available for the
governors. The old penstocks have never been inspected or repaired
internally.
Proposal for Renovation
3.        Civil Work.  An increase in the water discharge capacity from 10 to
25 m3/s is planned. This increase is possible by the construction of an
additional waterway and an additional weir. This modification will result in
energy production increase of 47 GWh/annum. The penstock will be inspected
internally and overhauled.
4.        Turbines.  For the full capacity operation of the station, the units
will be renovated. A runner of new design can increase the efficiency by
about 4%. The governors will be overhauled.
5.        Generators.  On the Generator No. 2 the stator winding, stator core
and rotor winding have to be replaced. On the unit nos. 1 and 3 diagnostic
tests are proposed before finalizing the scope of renovation.
Kracak
6.        This station has a total capacity of 16.5 MW.  There are three units
(vertical francis) of 5.5 MW each, two unit installed in 1924 and one in
1950. The turbines were manufactured by Stork, Netherlands (Lic. Charmilles).
There are two penstocks installed in 1926 and 1954.
7.        Present Situation.  The installed capacity cannot be used fully
because of waterway restriction. Currently three units are used as follows:
one unit for base operation @ 4.5 MW for 24 hours; two units for peak service



- 60 -                                ANNEX 10
Page 2
for eight hours e 4.5 MN. The limitation to 4.5 MW is caused by generator
restrictions. Turbine no. 2 was inspected through the draft tube and showed
that the runner blades have suffered cavitation and the discharge section is
in bad condition. The two penstocks haven't been inspected or overhauled from
inside since installation. One governor is out of operation. No spare parts
are available.
Proposal for Renovation
8.             Civil Work.  Accordi g to the civ l work study the actual
discharge can be enlarged from 11 m3/s to 12.4 mIls.  This modification will
improve the energy production from 60.5 GWh .-' 82.1 GWh. The penstock will be
inspected and their interior will be overhauled.
9.        Turbines.  The turbines need a thorough overhaul.  By installing new
runners, an efficiency gain of approximately 2% is possible. The governors
will be overhauled and/or replaced.
10.       Electrical.  Generator Nos. 1 and 2 will have to be rewound and
their cores will be restacked. On the unit no. 1, a diagnostic test is
proposed.
Lamajan
11.       This station has a capacity of 19.2 MW.  The three turbines (verti-
cal francis) have each a capacity of 6.4 MW; two were installed in 1924 and
one in 1934. The turbines were manufactured by Stork of the Netherlands
(Lic. Charmilles). The penstocks of this station (two, with a diameter 1.3 m
and 480 m long) were installed in 1925.
12.       Present Situation.  This station is used mainly for base
production. The water supply cascades from Plengan and from Lamajan to
Cikalong station. Inspection has showed that the main components of the
station such as penstock, main valves, turbines, governor, auxiliary equipment
are in a bad shape. The unit are derated from 6.4 MW to 6.0 MW each. The
water contains silt and creates erosion of the wearing parts.
13.       Proposal for Renovation.  This station has a relative high capacity
output with a high capacity factor (52Z) and since the water supply to the
Cikalong station depends on this station, its reliability is important. A
general overhaul of this station is proposed. Also, purchase of new turbine
runners is proposed.
14.       Electrical.  The stator winding and stator core will be replaced for
all three units. On unit no. 2, the rotor winding will be changed.
Plengan
15.       In Plengan Station, four units (horizontal francis) with a total ca-
pacity of 5.3 MW are installed; three turbines are dated 1921 having a capaci-
ty of 1.1 MW each and are of Escher Wyss design. One turbine is dated 1958
and has a capacity of 2.0 MW, manufactured by Maier KG Germany (Lic. Voith).



- 61 -                             AMN   10
Page 3
There are two penstocks (diameter 1.1 m, 203 m long) installed in 1923 and
1958, respectively.
16.       Present Situation.  The condition of the three units is rather
good. The new turbine has cavitation problem since installation. The tail
race level was raised by 0.4 m after the fourth unit was installed. The
turbine no. 4 had a crack in spiral shell near the stay ring. A new welded
spiralcase is on order. The capacity of the four units is limited to 4.3 Mi-
(3 x 0.9 MW and 1.6 MW). The restriction of capacity is mainly caused by
generator limitations.
17.       Governors.  The governors are not working satisfactionally.  Spare
parts are not available.
18.       Proposal for Renovation.  Still to be finalized.
Ketenger
19.       This station has two pelton turbines, each 3.75 MW.  The turbines
were installed in 1939 and were manufactured by Charmilles, Switzerland.
There is one penstock with a diameter of 800 mm.
20.       Present Situation.  Units are in good condition.  The actual output
for unit one is limited to 3.2 MW because of generator restrictions.
Currently, the station has a max. output capacity of 4 MW.
Proposal for Renovation
21.       Civil Work Part.  The main problem of this station is to improve the
capacity. A proposal to install a second penstock was examined but it was
found that the water availability isn't large enough to justify a second
penstock. It is proposed to enlarge the storage capacity and improve the
water intake to improve the peak capacity.
22.       Turbines.  Improving the runner geometry would result in an
efficiency gain of 7.5% at optimum operating load and approximately 10% at
full load.
23.       Governors.  No spare parts are available.  The Governors may need to
be replaced.
24.       Electrical.  Diagnostic tests are proposed for the generators.  The
two transformers will be replaced.
Jelok and Timo
25.       Jelok and Timo are cascade hydro plants.  Jelok is upstream of
Timo.



- 62 -                               ANNEX 10
Page 4
Jelok
26.       This station has an installed capacity of 20.4 MW.  The four units
(horizontal francis) of 5.1 MW each are dated 1937 (three) and 1957 (one).
The turbines were manufactured by Escher Wyss, Switzerland. The two penstocks
were installed in 1937 and 1957, respectively.
Timo
27.       This station has an installed capacity of 12.5 MW.  The three units
of 4.17 NW each are dated 1960.
Present Situation
Jelok
28.       The general condition of this station is good, except for the
penstock. Its maximum output is limited to 15 MW, due to excessive pressure
drop.
Timo
29.       The rated discharge from jelok is 14.5m 3/sec whereas the capacity
of Jelok-Timo waterway is about 7 m /sec. Therefore, the plant cannot operate
at full capacity.
Proposal for Renovation
30.       Civil Work-Jelok.  The penstock will be overhauled.
31.       Civil Work-Timo.  Construction of an additional waterway from Jelok
to Timo is proposed to increase the capacity of Timo station from 8.6 MW to 12
MW and increase the energy production by about 21 GWh.
Giringan
32.       This station has a capacity of 3.2 MW.  There are three horizontal
francis units. One turbine of 1.4 MW was installed in 1937, manufactured by
Escher Wyss, Switzerland and two turbines of 0.9 MW were installed in 1955,
manufactured by S5ork, Netherlands (Lic. Charmilles). Two penstocks with a
capacity of 4.0 m Is were installed in 1937.
33.       Present Situation.  The station capacity is derated from ?.2 MW to
2.45 MW, mainly due to generator limitations. The water contains silt that
causes heavy wear. The governors for units 1 and 2 are out of operation. The
penstock has never been inspected or overhauled from inside.
Proposal for Renovation
34.       Civil Work.  An additional steel (or concrete) pipe is planned from
tte intake to the reservoir to increase the water capacity fr3m 2.33 to 3.13
m /s. Enlargement of capacity of daily pondage from 11,800 m to 16,800 m is



- 63 -                               ANNEX 10
Page 5
also planned. These modifications will increase the energy production by
about 5.4 CWh/annum. The penstock will be overhauled.
35.       Turbine.  Unit three (1937) will be renovated to restore the
original capacity; a runner of new design will improve the efficiency by
approximately 6%. The wearing parts will be replaced by those with erosion
resistant materials. The governors will be overhauled.
36.       Generators.  The stator winding and the core of unit no. 1 generator
will be replaced. Also the rotor winding will be replaced. Diagnostic tests
will be carried out on unit nos. 2 and 3 to determine the scope of work. Two
transformers will be replaced.



- 64 -                             ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Hydro Renovation: Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Tur-   Gene-   Trans-   Reser-    Water    Pen-
Station                bine   rator   former    voir    conduit   stock   Total
Ubrug                  1.40   0.30      0.00     0.00      6.50     0.90      9.10
Kracak                 1.20   0.40      0.16     0.00      1.25      1.26     4.27
Lamajan                1.40   0.30      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.59      2.29
Plengan                0.30   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.21      0.51
Ketengar               0.40   0.02      0.00     0.21      0.25     0.71      1.59
Jelok and Timo         0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      1.00     1.21      2.21
Giringan               0.13   0.08      0.00     0.14      0.32     0.12      0.79
Total Base Cost  4.83   1.10       0.16     0.35      9.32     5.00    20.76



- 65 -                        ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Java Distribution Expansion Program
Scope of Work
1990/91        1991/92         Total
East Java
MV lines (kmc) /a                         1,046           1,197            2,243
LV lines Xkmc)                              558             689            1,247
Distribu.tion transformers (MVA)            263             296              559
Consuv.er connection                    114,910         119,330         234,240
Central Java
MV lines (kmc)                            1,163           1,323            2,486
LV lines (kmc)                              699             841            1,540
Distribution transformers (MVA)             170             190              361
Consumer connection                     100,160         101,270         201,430
West Java
MV lines (kmc)                            1,342           1,569            2,911
LV lines (kmc)                              810           1,095            1,905
Distribution transformers (MVA)             353             407              760
Consumer connection                      86,680          89,420         176,100
Jakarta
MV lines (kmc)                              908             988            1,896
LV ljnes (kmc)                            2,097           2,280            4,377
Distribution transformers (MVA)             454             494              948
Consumer connection                     138,900         142,800         182,700
/a kmc means circuit kilometers.



- 66 -                         ANNEX 12
Table 2
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Java Distribution Expansion Program
Cost Estimate (US$ million)
Item                                         Local        Foreign      Total
20 kV metal enclosed switchgear                 -            9.9         9.9
Transformers (substation)                       -           12.9        12.9
Transformers (pole mounted)                     -           32.2        32.2
20 kV cables and accessories                    -           93.2        93.2
20 kV electrical materials                      -            6.2         6.2
20 kV insulators                                -           11.6        11.6
Aluminum alloy conductors                       -           31.3        31.3
LV cables and bundled conductors                -           33.5        33.5
LV service drop cables                          -           31.4        31.4
KWh meters                                      _            9.9         9.9
Concrete poles                                 12.0         28.1        40.1
Accessories, fillings and
miscellaneous materials                       -           19.8        19.8
Installation works, erection and
owners costs                                 75.5          -           -
Total Base Cost                            87.5         320.0      407.5



-67 -                           ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Java Distribution Expansion Program
List of Contracts
Lot No.                                             Contract Description
IA                                 20 kV metal enclosed switchgear
1B                                 20 kV compact substation
2A                                 Substation mounted transformers
2B                                 Pole mounted transformers (non CSP type)
2C                                 Pole mounted transformers (CSP type)
3                                  20 kV underground cables
4                                  20 kV underground cable accessories
5                                  MV Electrical materials
6                                  20 kV insulator
7                                  LV distribution panels
8                                  Aluminum alloy conductor
9                                  LV cable
10A                                 LV bundled conductor
10B                                 LV service drop cable
11                                  LV cable accessories
12                                  Overhead conductor fitting
13                                  KWh meters
14                                  Miniature circuit breaker
15                                  Consumer meter boards
16                                  Service entry material
17                                  Pole hardware
18                                  Miscellaneous equipments
Concrete poles



- 68 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Distribution Management Program
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
1. GENERAL
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) is an agency of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy of the Republic of Indonesia, and is responsible for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to the public in
the whole country.
Distribution of power to the consumers in the island of Java is the
responsibility of 4 (four) Distribution Regions respe2tively for Metropolitan
Jakarta, West-, Central- and East Java. Each Distribution Region is subdi-
vided into Branches and Sub-branches. The Distributicn Office is responsible
for overall planning and coordination, P'.so for the implementation of large-
scale distribution expansions and conne..tion of larger consumers. The Branch
Offices assisted by Sub-branch Offices are responsible for the whole range of
consumer services: connection of new consumers, billing of existing ones, and
the operation and maintenance of distribution facilities. Some basic data and
information re.ated to Java's four Distribution Regions can be found in the
Attachment.
Efforts to satisfy demands caused by the low electrification ratio
and rapid development of the industry have resulted in rapid ii,crease in sales
(currently 16? annually) and new connections (currently more than 700,000 new
consumers annually). In order to ensure that the distribution facilities work
at the desired standards of efficiency and reliability, in the environment of
rapid growth it is necessary to (a) upgrade the quality of operation and
maintenance by better equipment, procedures and training of staff; and
(b) minimize costs by better planning, improved standards of design and con-
struction and reduced losses.
Some of the ongoing efforts in the field of distribution include:
(i) a loss reduction program funded by IBRD, (ii) distribution expansion
projects funded by IBRD (Jakarta), ADB (West and East Java), Kuwait and Abu
Dhabi Funds (West Java), USAID (Central Java), (iii) distribution control
centers (Jakarta and Bandung/West Java), (iv) distribution mapping (West
Java), (v) computerized distribution planning (CADPAD), (vi) hot line mainte-
nance funded by ADB, and others.
2. OBJECTIVE OF THE SERVICES
PLN desires to initiate and implement a program, with the assistance
of a team of foreign and local consultant's personnel, to improve the manage-
ment, operation and maintenance of the distribution facilities in Java.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 2
The objective of the program will be to upgrade all aspects of the
distribution management including planning, design, construction, maintenance,
operation, organization, and reporting system to provide better service to
consumers.
The program should address the needs for the training of staff and
improvement in organization. The scope of involvement of private contractors
in the construction, operation and maintenance of distribution facilities also
needs to be reviewed and defined. During the course of this assignment the
consultant shall provide maximum possible transfer of knowledge to the local
staff.
3. SCHEDULE OF SERVICES
A. Phase One
In the first phase of the assignment, lasting over a period of about
six months, the consultant will develop a comprehensive, detailed Master Plan
which will include:
(a)  Evaluation and analysis of PLN's current distribution management
practices and identification of the main issues and constraints in
distribution management--technical, institutional, environmental and
others;
(b)  Projection and analysis of PLN's needs and obligations for 5-7 years
ahead, reflecting the growth of demand and desired supply capability;
(c) Determination of the goals and results to be achieved in the various
areas of distribution management, to enable PLN to improve its
overall performance;
(d)  Development of a Master Plan including the selection of appropriate
action programs for achieving the goals;
(e)  Preparation of a schedule of implementation showing all major
activities and key dates, including monitorable milestones;
(f)  Determination of the organizational development needs for smooth
implementation of the program, and in doing so identifying works
inherent with PLN as a power utility and works that could be executed
by contractors. In this context, the adequacy of the authority,
responsibility and the accountability of the Distribution Offices
needs to be determined, to achieve efficient management;
(g)  Developing the manpower requirements within PLN and measures to
improve utilization of contractors' capabilities; and
(h)  Budget requirement to support the proposed program.



- 70 -                             ANNEX 13
Page 3
In executing the first phase, the Consultant will work closely with a
Counterpart Team of PLN's staff and ensure complete exchange of information
between the Consultant and PLN. PLN's management will review and approve each
milestone report of the Master Plan.
It is expected that a Team of three expatriate experts assisted by
personnel from a local Consultant will be required for the implementation of
the first phase, which will conclude with the submission of a Master Plan
satisfactory to PLN's management.
B. Phase Two
In the second phase of the assignment, lasting over a period of about
two years, the consultant will assist in the implementation of the Master
Plan. The activities of the Consultant shall include, but not be limited to
achieving the following objectives:
(a) assistance in the development of a computerized distribution and
consumer information system, providing:
-    common data base,
-    mapping of distribution facilities and consumer's connection,
-    software for technical analysis of distribution data for
distribution planning and consumer administration.
Development of the system's hardware and software shall be compatible
with PLN's proposed Java trunk telecommunication network;
(b) regview and improvement of standard designs for new distribution
facilities reflecting requirements to minimize losses, to allow
extended area coverage, to achieve desired reliability and to
minimize costs;
(c) review and improvement of standard manuals for different construction
phases including survey for line routing, tower spotting, cable
laying, stringing of conductors, erection of distribution
transformers, inspection, commissioning, etc;
(d) review of operational procedure and manuals to improve reliabilty and
efficiency;
(e) improvement in the capabilities within PLN for the maintenance of the
distribution system;
(f) review and improvements in the centralized and distributed
procurement practices and tendering;
(g) review and improvement in the budgetary procedures to have better
control and accountability along with the flexibility to respond to
situations requiring quick actions;



-71 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 4
(h) training of PLN's staff in the required areas of distribution
management;
(i) improvement in organization; and
(j)  improvement of service to the consumers.
The services during phase two is expected to require four expatriates
assisted by local Consultant's personnel working together with PLN's
Counterpart Team.
4. REPORTING SYSTEM
Monthly and quarterly reports on the progress of the first and second
phases are to be submitted by the Consultant, covering:
-    the status of the works under the contract, indicating progress made
and setting forth plans for the ensuing period,
-    an administrative report covering expenditures incurred and personnel
employed under the contract.
5. INVOLVEMENT OF LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM
The foreign Consultant is encouraged to promote the involvement of
local Consultants in carrying out his services in Indonesia and assigning
maximum possible responsibilities to them. Also, he should foster technologi-
cal exchange between expatriate and local engineers. The involvement of the
local Consultant is expected to include:
-    participation in survey work, data collection and interviews with the
staff of PLN's Head Office and Distribution Offices,
-    participation in all major meetings and preparation of reports,
-    involvement in the preparation of the Master Plan and the different
action programs,
-    supervision and monitoring of program implementation.



ANNEX 14           I
-72 -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Java Telecommunications - Cost Estimate
(USS million)
Item                                 Local             Foreign          Total
Fiber-optic cable                      1.12               5.19           6.31
Fiber-optic terminals                  0.07               0.89           0.96
Multiplex                              0.22               1.22            1.44
Terminal equipment                     0.05               0.51           0.56
Switching                              0.07               1.46           1.53
Power supplies                         0.02               0.25           0.27
Supervision                            0.04              0.30            0.34
Miscellaneous                          0.02               0.21            0.23
Spares                                 0.03               0.31           0.34
Tools                                  0.02               0.21           0.23
Testing                                0.05               0.41            0.46
Civil works                            1.14               0.24            1.38
Owner's administration                 0.15               -               0.15
Total+                           3.00              11.20           14.20



-73 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY REPORT
Corporate Planning and Financial Planning
Teoms of Reference for Consulting Services
I. GENERAL
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), is an Agency of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy of the Republic of Indonesia, and is responsible for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to the public in
the whole country. PLN currently is experiencing high growth in its sales and
rate of connection, reaching a m.llion new consumers every year. To keep up
with high potential demand, PLN has to expand its power supply facilities
rapidly, adding more than 1,000 MW of generation capacity every year and the
associated transmission, substation and distribution system.
The long-term objectives are to provide adequate and continuous
electricity supply with satisfactory reliability and quality, equitably in the
whole country, at a price affordable to the general public. In meeting these
objectives, PLN has to face numerous issues, and sometimes conflicting roles
as a development agency but also as a business entity, affecting its short-
term as well as longer-term operations.
To address the key issues and to pursue its objectives in an
effective and efficient manner, PLN needs to develop further its Corporate
Plan, to be able to formulate corporate strategies under uncertain and
changing situations, derive appropriate action programs, monitor their
implementation and evaluate results. This rolling Corporate Plan is reviewed
annually.
II. OBJECTIVE OF THE SERVICES
PLN desires to initiate and implement a program, with the assistance
of a firm of expatriate experts supported by loca. experts, for the
improvement of its corporate and financial plannis.j functions.
The objective of this program will be to enhance all aspects of PLN's
corporate planning and financial planning processes, including determining
corporate and financial objectives, identifying key issues, developing
strategic approaches, preparing monitorable action programs and evaluating the
results. The program shall also assist PLN in acquiring a suitable utility
financial planning software package.
The program shall also address the needs for the training of staff
and organizational improvements. During she course of this assignment the
consultant shall provide maximum transfer of knowledge to the local staff.



- 74 _                          ANNEX 15
Page 2
III. SCHEDULE OF SERVICES
A. Phase One
In the first phase of the assignment, lasting over a period of about
six months, the consultant shall conduct activities leading to the preparation
of a detailed Master Plan for the improvement of PLN's corporate and financial
planning functions, which will include:
(a) Sensitizing PLN management and staff to the need for an overall
corporate plan and an appropriate financial plan, by conducting
seminars for the top management, corporate planning staff and liaison
representatives from each planning function within the different
directorates and operating units in PLN.
(b) Evaluating and analyzing PLN's current planning management practices,
and identifying technical, institutional, environmental and other
problem areas causing ineffective planning, specifically when related
to the hierarchical levels of decision making in the company:
-   involvement of top management in formulating the overall
corporate strategy,
-   responsibilities of the officers in the different directorates
for the preparation of operational programs as derived from the
overall corporate strategy, giving due consideration to the
constraints faced by the company,
-   further elaboration of these programs into tacticallaction
programs, and the interfacing with proposals from the operational
units.
(c) Reviewing the time schedules and planning methodologies currently in
use in PLN to prepare long-term plans, medium-term programs and
annual budgets, and identifying possible improvements, including the
need to acquire a commercial software package for utility financial
planning.
(d) Identifying the organizational and manpower development needs, as
required for the smooth implementation of the program.
(e) Developing a Master Plan for the improvement of corporate and
financial planning functions, showing all major activities and key
dates, in sufficient detail including monitorable milestones.
In executing the first phase, the consultant will work closely with a
counterpart team of PLN's staff, and ensure complete exchange of information
between the consultant and PLN. PLN's management will review and approve each
milestone report of the Master Plan.
It is expected that a team of three expatriates assisted by personnel
from a local consultant will be required for the implementation of the first
phase, which will conclude with the submission of the Master Plan satisfactory
to PLN's management.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
B. Phase Two
In the second phase, lasting over a period of about two years, the
consultant will assist in the implementation of the Master Plan. The
activities of the consultant shall include, but not be limited to:
Corporate Planning
(a) Assisting, during one full cycle of the annual corporate planning
process, through provision of appropriate planning techniques and
methodologies, while analyzing the need for further improvement of
the existing planning mechanism and procedures.
(b) Developing standard procedures and techniques for corporate planning,
including development of modelling techniques appropriate to the
situations and conditions prevailing in Indonesia, and other means to
achieve the required level of coordination in the planning process,
and applying them in the following corporate planning cycle.
(c) Assisting PLN's operational units (3-4 units) in implementing the
corporate strategy by translating the corporate plan into
tactical/action programs.
(d) Training of personnel to improve their skills and knowledge in
preparing the different stages of the planning process: identifying
key issues, setting objectives, formulating alternative plans and
programs to achieve objectives, analyzing and evaluating data and
information pertaining to the implementation of the plans/programs.
(e) Making optimum use of the overall Management Information System, and
other information systems for the planning process.
(f) Continuing to provide overview assistance until the corporate
planning function in PLN is performing effectively without external
assistance.
Financial Planning
(a) Assisting PLN in acquiring a commercially available Utility Financial
Planning software package. Providing further assistance by modifying
the package to enable greater applicability tc PLN, and providing
adequate training to the financial planning staff in the use of the
package.
(b) Strengthening and enhancing the process of financial planning by
providing instructions in the creation and use of primary planning
assumptions, establishing more definite planning timeframes,
providing instruction and training in the creation and uses cf
scenario analysis.
(c) Continuing to provide overview assistance until the financial
planning function in PLN is performing effectively without external
assistance.



- 76 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 4
The services during phase two are expected to reqaire four expatriate
experts for the first year and two for the second year, assisted by local
experts, working together with PLN's counterpart team.
IV. REPORTING SYSTEM
Monthly and quarterly reports on the progress of the first and second
phase are to be submitted by the consultant, covering:
-    the status of the work under the contract, indicating progress made
and setting forth plans for the ensuing period,
-    an administrative report covering expenditures incurred and personnel
employed under the contract.
V. INVOLVEMENT OF LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM
The foreign consultant is encouraged to promote the involvement of
local consultants in carrying out his services in Indonesia and assigning
maximum possible responsibilities to them. Also, he should foster
technological exchange between expatriate and local staff. The involvement of
the local consultant is expected to include:
-    participation in survey work, data collection and interviews with the
staff of PLN's Head Office and Regional Offices,
-    participation in all major meetings, and preparation of reports,
-    involvement in the preparation of the Master Plan and the different
action programs,
-    supervision and monitoring of program implementation.



INDONESIA: POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule for Hydro Renovation Component
low             199             1991            1992            im
1  2   3   41    2   3   4   1  2   3   4 1    2   3   4   1  2   3   4
1. SELECTION OF CONSULTANT
FOR IMPLEMENTATION
2 TtURiNES A GENERATORS
Inpcin & Finain
Sa.of WId
Tender Documents
Biddin & Contact
3. PENSTOCKS
Inspecton and Finailsng                                                                                                      -
Scop of work
Tender Documents
Biddig & Contat
1moementiMUn
4. CIVILWORKS
Tender Documents
Bidding & CoWMct
Implw_4don



INDONESIA: POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Distribution Expansion Program
1980            1000            1991             1092            1903
1  2   3   4  1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4  1  2   3  4   1  2   3   4
PREPARATION OF BID
DOCUMENTS
TENDERING
EVALUATION
GOI APPROVAL                                  _
-J
IBRD APPR.OVALI 
CONTRACTS NEGOTIATIONS
MANUFACTURE & DEUVERY                                    
cONSTRuaCO                               I
-"urn9 
*t3
fixa



INDONESIA: POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Telecommunications Component
198889    l|        w 19SIN01/91                 |      1991/92     |     102/3
A MI JJ_AE O _ D J FIM AM_ J J _AE _N D J FIM_   AMJJ _ASO NDJF |AM |J J ASO N|D J F   AM "J J ASO|N D|J FM
IBRD REVIEW
FINAUSE TENDER DOCUMENTS
CALL TENDERS (TENDERS CLOSED)
EVALUATION (AND GOI/IBRD REVIEW)
CONTRACT AWARD
CONTRACTORS SURVEY
MANUFACTURE AND DEUVERY
ERECTIONJNSTALLATION
TEST
COMMISSION (FINAL SYSTEM TESTING)
AVAILABILITY TESTING
(FINAL ACCEPTANCE)
d~U~USS 



ANNEX 17
- 80 -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement                  Indonesia pro-
Bank                    Semester         Cumulative                 file (power)
FY      Semester        ---(US$ million) -----
1990          I            0.0               0.0           0.0             -
II            1.0               1.0           0.3             0
1991          I           15.0              16.0           4.8             -
II          50.0               66.0          19.6             6
1992          I           50.0             116.0          34.4             -
II           75.0             191.0          56.7            20
1993          I           72.0             263.0          78.0             -
II          25.0              288.0          85.5            43
1994          I          25.0              313.0          92.9             -
II          20.0              333.0          98.8            72
1995          I            3.0             336.0          99.7             -
II            1.0             337.0         100.0            86



- 81 -                                           ANNE  18
Tobl- 1
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PIN - Past Financial Results
Income Statements
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                  1900/81   1981/82   1992/83   1908/84   1994/84   1985/86   1988/67   1987/88
Sales increase (X)            22.1      20.3       16.0       9.9       10.4      16.1       16.4      15.5
Energy sales (GWh)           8,623     7,646      9,101    10,000    11,041    12,706    14,786    17,077
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)      41.4      43.3       66.6      76.0       97.0      96.6       98.6      92.6
Energy revenue                 271       340        614       760      1,080     1,227      1,382     1,681
Other operating revenue         18         16        21        27         81        86         48        48
Total Rovenues            284      a86         586       787      1.111     1.263     1.426      1.629
iOe ratins Expenses
Fu-I/bulk pOwr                99       147        288       477        712       776        720       881
Operations                    86       107        143       166        203       237        251       820
Depreciation                  78       121        146       158        204       261        321       484
Total Expense.            258       876        671       800     1.119      1.278     1.292      1.636
Operating Incose           26       (19)       (38)      (13)                  1 DU     138 
Other incom  (net)              (6)         1         -         -        (14)      (21)        (9)       (8)
Gross lnterest                  12        29         88        68        144       110        164       214
Less: interest during
construction                  12        27         28        44        120        86         77        96
Int rost Char ad to
Operationsn                         2          6        19        24         24        87        118
Net Income /               20       (20)       (41)      (82)       (46)      U5         7T       (182)
Rate base /b                   787       976      1,218     1,497      1,998     2,779      8,867     6,098
Rate of return (X)             8.6       (1.9)     (8.0)      (0.9)     (0.4)     (0.8)       8.4      (0.1)
Operating ratio (3)             91       105        107       102        101       101         91       100
/a Before taxes (see para. 5.22).
/b Based on revoluatton of fixed asseta from FY?9/80 onwards, in accordance with Governmnt Regulation No.
46/1986 dated October 2, 1986 (see para. 5.28).



- 82 -                                            ANNEX 16
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Post Financial Rosults
Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                             1980/81  1981/02  1982/83  1983/84  1984/86  1986/89  1966/87  1967/68
ASSETS
-F7-d Assets
Plant In service                    1,238    1,718    2,124    2,771    S,710    5,002    6,638        8,785
Loev:  Accumulated depreciation       143       276      486      614       842    1,136    1,504      2,153
Net plant in service                1,090    1,442    1,689    2,157    2,869    3,866    5,249        6,582
Work in progress                      856    1,067    1,370    1,878    2,148    2,608    3,192        4,089
Total Fixed Assets                 1.946    2.499    8.069    4.035    6.016   6e.89    8.441    10.671
Current Assets
Cash                                  136       179      237      142       181      124       216       239
Invontories                            79        96      122      171       213      280       146       210
Receivables                            68       8e       108       165      18e      208       226       268
Other current  assets                  23        23       30       44        44       45        29        26
Total Current Asscts                 801       884      497      522       674      657       617       780
Other Assets                               -        -        1         1       18       20        69       143
TOTAL ASSETS                       2.247    2.893    3.657    4.568    5.608    7.046    9.127    11.552
E_WITTY AND LIABILITIES
aid-in capital                    1,189    1,468    1,779    2,017    2,442    3,000    3,422        4,282
Retained earnings                         (6)     (38)     (69)      (97)    (148)    (193)    (162)      (284)
Revalustion reserve                     683       8il      981    1,083    1,238    1,439    2,120       2,865
Total Equity                       1.812    2.246    IL       3.003    8.637    4.246   65390        6.868
Long-term debt (not)                     151      276      417     s8e    1,302    1,856    2,535        8,140
Current liabilities                      67       112      208      235       227      312       466       696
Othor liabilities /a                    213       249      291      464       642      632       737       8ss
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES       2.247    2.883    a,667    4.sss    6,eos    7.048    9.127    11.SS2
Debt X of dobt + squity /b                  10       14       17        27       32       86        40        41
Current ratio (time )                     4.6       3.4      2.4       2.2      2.5      2.1       1.8       1.1
/a Including consumers' contributions and deposits.
/b Including consumers' contributions, but excluding revaluation surplus.



- 83 -
ANNEX 18
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Post Financial Results
Funds Flow Stat.ents
(Rp bTllioNn)
Fiscal year                        1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/865  1986/86  1966/87  1967/88
Internsl Sources of Funds
Net income before interest
and tax                           20       (18)     (38)      (13)     (22)     (31)     124      (14)
De:proeltion                        78       121      146       1S5      204      261      821      484
Consumers contributions and
other adJustments                 42       80       45        167       71       69      108      116
Total Internal Funds            135      138       164       312      263      819      558      563
Operational Requir eents
Variation working capital and
others                            28        (6)     (41)       98       71       6s     (107)     107
Debt repayment                       -        8        11        21       52      112       87      269
Interest charged to operations       -        2        5         19       24       24       67      116
Total Operational Requirement    23        6       (25)      133      147      204      (67)     494
Total capital Investment             303      498       585       981    1,030    1,408    1,712    1,918
Balance to bo Financed          191      8e6       408       802      924    1.293    1.226    1.876
Financed by
Borrowings                          64       182      15S       489      488      728      896    1,038
Gov-rnment contributions           191       279      311       238      426      668      442      860
Total Capit&l Sources           266      411       484       707      913    1.286    Aks8s    1.898
Cash Increaso/Decrease           64       43        58       (95)     (11)               92       28
Debt servic- coverage ratio (times)    -      10.8      6.8       8.6      2.4      1.7      2.6      1.1
Contribution to construction:
Annual (S)                        87.0     26.8    30.6        18.2    11.4       8.7     23.0      1.0
3-year average (x) /              28.4    29.9    30.3         23.6    18.8      12.2    16.8    10.7
/a Current and two preceding years.



- 84 -                                                ANNEX 16
Tabl- 4
INOONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Indonosia O rations
Income Stet emnts
(Rp billin ME
Actual        Estimate                         Proi ction
Fiscal year                     1966/87   1987/I8   -farm8  lff9/90  1990I 91  1991/92  1992/9J  1993/94  1994/96
Enorgy sales (GWh)              14,786   17,077       19,882   22,697   26,112   29,932   34,169   36,860   43,662
Sales incroase (X)                16.4     16.5         16.4     14.2      16.1      14.6     14.2      13.7     12.9
Average rovenue (Rp/kWh)         93.47    92.60        92.30   116.81   120.62   125.36   130.38   135.62   141.01
Average revenue increose (3)    (3.3)    (0.9)          (0.3)    25.0       4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0
Oe!ratina Revenues
Energy r-vonuo                1,382    1,681         1,835    2,629    3,147    3,762    4,466    6,269    6,186
Othor operating rovenue           43       48           56       65        76       66       102       117      136
Total Revenue              1425    1.629          1.890    2.694    3.222    3.38    47 6S7                6.321
Opntt9 xD no-o
FFuolond lubricoting oil         701      870        1,040    1,160    1,240    1,466    1,660    1,799    1,946
Power purchased                   19       11           10       12        13        13       13        13       13
P*rsonnol expense                131      149          189      216       228      242       267       272      288
Repair/maintenance                76      116          101      136      11        187      224       284      333
Depreciation                     321      434          567      640       860      997    1,166    1,390    1,061
Other expenses                   44        66           6o       89        95      101       106       113      119
Total Expenses             1.292    1.835         1 987    2.261    2.697    2,996    3.416    3.861    4.369
Operating Income             133        ().         (77)     443       626      843    1.141    1,636    1.962
Nonoperating income                 13       26            7        18       18        23       30        39       60
Nonoperating expenso                22       33           13       34        37        41       46        50       64
Other Income (Not)            .91       m            M       (21)      (1 9     (18)      (16)      (11)
Net Income Before Interest  124    (14)             (83)     422       606      826    1.126    1.624    1,968
Total interest                     164      214          267      321       440      687       998    1,363    1,721
Less: I.D.C.                        77       96          136       68       166       393      697    1 024    1,393
Inter-st charged to operations  87        118          121      263       286      294       301       339      328
Net Income                    37      (132)        (204)     169       321      631       824    1.185    1.630
Rate bass                        3,867    6,093        6,924    8,955   10,628   12,173   13,967   17.008   20,411
Rate of return (X)                 3.4     (0.1)        (1.1)     4.9       6.9      6.9       6.2       9.0      9.6
Operating ratio (X)                 91      100          104       84        81        so       76        72       69



ANNEX 18
-85-                                                 Txi-6
INOONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Java Operation.
Ineome Stte  nts
(Rp billion)
Actual        Estimate                         ProjectTon
Fiscal year                     1916/17   1967/86    T1W 8/8   1969/90  19PO/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96
Energy salec (GWh)              11,577   13,398       15,601   17,764   20,293   23,235   26,483   30,065   33,973
Sales increace (X)                15.2     15.7         15.7      14.5     14.3      14.6     14.0      13.6     13.0
Average  revenue (Rp/kWh)        91.69    90.99        90.66   113.20   117.73   122.44   127.34   132.43   137.73
Average revenue Increase (X)    (3.4)    (0.6)          (0.4)    26.0       4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
O rntin9 RRvenuos
Energy r-v-nue                 1,061    1,219        1,404    2,010    2,389    2,846    3,373    3,982    4,679
Other operating revenue           33       36           46       47        63        60       69        78       89
Total Revenues             1.096    1.266         1.460    2.067    .g442    2,906    3.442    4.0S0    4.768
O rxtiL n9Exnoso
f:i d Fuo n bricating oil        460      696          722      797       843    1,020    1,193    1,263    1,896
Power purchased                   17       10            9        11       11        11       11        11       11
Personnel expense                 81       92          134       130      138       146      155       184      174
Repair/maintenance                46       73           68        37      102       116      139       179      213
DeprociatIon                     226      300          392      440       6o1      689       797       966    1,166
Other *xpensc                    29       3a           43       63        67        71       76        80       84
Total Expenses               846    110           1.73    1.628    1L762    2.062    2.370    2.683    3.043
Operating Income             247       162           77      629       680      863    1.072    1.397    1.726
Nonoperating income                 11        7            4         7       14        18       23        30       39
Nonoperating expense                14        9            7        18       29        32       36        39       42
Other Income (Not)             (3)      Ifl            .     (11)      (16)      (14)     (12)       (91       M
Not Income Before Interest  244        150           74      518       665      839    L.060    1.388    1.722
Interest charged to operations    68         98          101      203       215       223      210       226      204
Not Income                    176       52          (27)     315       460       1a       850      1.162    1.518
Rate base (revolued)             2,846    3,652        4,980    6,614    7,772    8,641    9,802   12,060   14.639
Rate of return (X)                 8.7      4.2          1.5       8.0      8.7       8.9     10.9      11.6     11.8
Operating ratio (3)                 78       88           94        74       72        71       69        66       64



ANNEX 13
- 86 -                                               Tabl-e
INOONESIA
'IWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PiN - Non-Java Operatlons
Incoe Statementn
CRp billion)
Actual        Estimate                          Proection
Fiscal year                     1986/87   1987/88   *1W1711  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Energy sales (CWh)               3,209    3,679        4,381    4,948    6,819    0,697    7,681    8,786    9,89
Sales increase (%)                20.9     14.6         19.1     12.8      17.7      15.1     14.7      14.4     12.6
Av- * revenue (Rp/kWh)           99.86    98.47        98.32   126.20   130.21   136.42   140.84   146.47   152.33
Ave, * revenue increase (S)    (2.9)    (1.4)           (0.2)    27.3       4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Operating Revenues
En-rgy revenue                   820      862          431      619       768      907    1,082    1,287    1,506
Othor operating revenue            9       12            9       18        22       26        38        39       47
Total Revenues               330       374          440      637       780      93      1,116    1.326    1.653
OeFralTing Exp,so
Fuol*nd lubrcxting oil          261       276          318      363       397      436       467       16G      560
Powor purchooed                    2        1            1         1        2         2        2         2        2
Personnel expenso                 so       67           66       eS        90       96       102       108      114
Repair/maintenance                30       43           38       48        69        72       85       105      120
Depreciation                      96      134          176      200       269      308       359       424      496
Other expenses                    1G       22           12       26        28       30        31        33       36
Total Expenses               444       632          594      723       636      943    1,046    1.188    1.316
Operating Income             (114)    (168)        (164)     (88)      (56)      (O)      69       138      237
Nonoperating income                  2       18            3         6        4         6        7         9       11
Nonoperating expens-                 8       24            6        16        8         9       11        11       12
Other Income (Not)            .f         m           In      (10)       (4)      ki        la        M 2)     m
Net Income Before Interest (120)    (164)          (157)     (9)       (59)      (14)      6s       136      236
Interest charged to operations    19         20           20       60        70        71       91       113      124
Net Income                   (139)    (184)        (177)    (146)    (129)      (85)      (26)       23      112
Rate base (rovalued)             1,021    1,441        1,944    2,341    2,856    3,632    4,156    4,958    5,772
Rate of return (1)               (11.1)   (10.9)        (7.8)    (8.7)    (1.9)    (0.3)       1.7       2.8      4.1
Operating ratio (1)                136      142          136       113      107       101       94        90       85



ANNEX 13
- 87-                                               T    imo  7
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Indonesia Operations
Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
Actual        Estimatt                         Projection
Fiscal year                    I906/87   1987/88    198f8/     1989/90  1990/91  199l/92  1992/9a  1993/94  1994/96
ASSETS
--F--d Asoet-
Plant in service            6,633    0,735       12,063   14,621   17,663   20,416   24,300   30,162   36,463
Leos:  Accum. depreciation 1,584    2,163         2,863    3,694    4,773    5,981    7,402    9,120   11,186
Operating plant             5.249    6.582        9.190   10.927   12.880   14,435   16.898   21.042   24,278
Work in progress            3,192    4,069        4,541    5,760    7,051    9,687   12,615   14,627   18,551
Total Fixed Assets          8.441   10.671       13,731   16.677   19.931   24.122   29.513   35.669   42.8?9
Current Assets
Cash and bank                 216      239          100       100      344      420       480      626       686
Accounts receivable          11       204          252      802       845      411       488      577      678
Inventories                   146      210          211      247       241      278       322      371      423
Othor current assots           74       85           87       106      182      200       220      242       266
Total Current Assets          617      788          660      815    1.112    1.309    1.610    1.715    1.961
Other assets                     69       143         211      228       232      284       237      239       241
TOTAL ASSETS                9.127   11.562       14.t92   17.720   21,276   25.686   31.260   37.623   45.021
EquITY AND LIABILITIES
-in capital             8,422    4,282        6,605    6,980    7,840    8,620    9,110    9,a76   10,225
Retainod earnings            (162)    (284)        (485)    (316)        6      636    1,360    2,645    4,175
Revaluation surplus         2,120    2,865        3,647    4,430    5,416    6,300    7,389    8,677   10,256
Total Equity                6.390    6.8e 3       8.667   11.094   13.261   15.36e   17.839   20,897   24.656
Long-term debt (LTD)          2,748    3,468        4,740    5,240    6,400    8,439   11,256   14,217   17,458
Loss:  Current portion          213       318         258       260      382      349       364      382       435
Not long-ter debt           2.535    3.140        4.482    4.980    6,068    8.090   10.891   13.836   17.023
Current Liabilities
Current portion of LTD        213      318          258      260       as5      349       364      382       435
Accounts payable              218      316          180      246       262      284       310      341       378
Other current liabilities      34       62           1S       20        21       22        23       24        26
Total Current Liabilities    466       696          453      626       6le      ass       697      747       839
Consumers' contributions        539       606         695       765      904    1,063    1,220    1,408    1,620
Other liabilities t             198       247         292       365      426      511       613      736       888
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 9.127   11,652        14.692   17.720   21.276   25,665   31.280   37.623   46,021
Current ratio (times)             1.8       1.1         1.4       1.6      1.8      2.0       2.2      2.3       2.3
Debt as X debt plus equity /b   89.9       40.5        43.6      40.1     40.9     44.4      48 2     60.4      51.6
Accounts receivoble (eays)         48        47          42        42       40       40        40       40        40
ia Including consume5' deposits.
Including consumers' contributions, but excluding revaluation surplus.



ANNEX 18
- 88 T-TU
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Indonesa lnO.ratlonc
Funds Flow Sttemnts
(Rp billon)
Actual        Estimte                         Projection
Fiscal year                       1980/87   1987/88    198/8   1969/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sourc-e
Not income beore  Interest       124      (14)         (68)     422      606      326    1,126    1,524    1,968
Depreciation                     821      434        657        640      60"      997    1,160    1,390    1,681
Consumrs' contributions           aS       67          *9        70      1S9      149       167      166      212
Other                             45       49          s0        71       71       6E       102      123      147
Total Internal Sources          553      5s6         628    1.203    1.676    2.056    2.50    322          ,978
Debt Service
Inter-st charged operations       87      116         121       253      286      294       301     839       328
Debt repaymnt                     87      209         260       261      310      882       349      864      882
Total Debt Service              174      888         381       534      595      626       650      703      710
Not Internal Sources            79      ISO         242       eo9    1,081    1.430    1,900    2.622    a.2e8
Borrowl ngs
Existing borrowings              896    1,038       1,602       658      356      154       161       71        -
Future borrowings                  -        -           -       221    1,042    2,199    2,987    3,236    3,568
Total Borrowings                896    1.038       1.602       779    1.398    2.353    3.148    3.307    3.668
Governmnt equity                   422      860       1,828    1,45        660      660       690     560       560
TOTAL SOURCES                 1j.09    2.048       3.107    2.82S    S.S89    4,40S    56J!9    6.!94    7j$ft
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
C, ital Exe nditur-
C-E60not onr ii nditure          1,835    1,823       2,818    2,646    2,973    3,912    4,782    6,216    5,849
Interest during construction      77       96         186       68       15S      893      697    1,024    1,893
Total Capital Expenditure    1.712    1.918        2.949    2.718    3.129    4.306    6.479    6.239    7.242
Changeo In working capital
and other                        (15)     130         218       110      210      158       159      15S      144
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            1.697    2.048       3.167    2.823    S.839    4.463    6.638    6.394    7.886
Increase (Docr-ase) in Cash      92       28        (189)       _       244       76       60        46       60
Cssh at beginning of year            124      216         239       100      100      344       420      480      526
Cash at end of year                  216      239         100       100      344      420       480      626     S8
Annual debt ser lco c^verago
ratio (times)                     2.6       1.1         1.8      2.0       2.6      2.9      3.5       4.1      5.1
S-lf- %nancinp Ratio (%)
Annul                             28.0      1.0         0.6      20.6     27.8     29.5      31.8     37.9    48.1
3-year moving average
(current + 2 past years)       15.8    10.7           6.7      8.0      16.5     26.6     30.1     83.6      36.1



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Indonesia, Java and Non-Jave Operations
Calculations of Rate Bare i
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                         1986/80  1908/87  1907/88  1968/89  1989/90   1990/91  1991/92    1992/93   199I /94 1994/9C
Indonesia Operations
Gross fixed assets (revalued)      5,002    6,833    8,735   12,053   14,621    17,663    20,416    24,800   80,17M2   36,463
Less: Accumulated depreciation    1,136    1,684    2,163    2,863    3,694       4,773     6,981     7,402     9,120   11,185
Not Fixod Assets In Operation   3.866    6.249    6.682    9.190   10.927    12.880    14.436    16.l98    21.042   24,270
Lese:  Co rs:ontrlbutions            626      766       890    1,036    1,172     1,379     1,590     1,328     2,097    2,401
Balance                         3.241    4.494    6.692    8.155    9.766    11,601    12.U46    16.070    18.945   21.697
Rate Bass                                3.867    5.093    6.924    8.955    10.628    12.173    1t.967    17.00.   204111
Java Operations                                                                                                                               %O
Cross fixed assets (revalued)      3,680    4,999    6,233    8,788   10,783    12,696    14,438    17,166    21,504   25,44 
Less:  Accumulatd depreciation       764    1,096    1,628    2,016    2,686      8,339    4,176      6,168     6,852    7,300
Net Fixod Assets in Operation   2.896    3.903    4.07    6.772    8.198       9.367   10.262    12.080    16.162   17.654
Less:  Cou  U J ntribution           5 603     603      703      817      926     1,087     1,261     1,486     1,646    1,882
Balance                         2.j93    3300    4.020    6.966    7.273       8.270    9011    10.C94   1U  606   16.7?2
Rate Base                                2.046    38.62    4,980    6.014      7.772     8.641     9.902    12.00   14.69
Non-Java Operations
Gross fixed assets (revalued)      1,822    1,634    2,602    8,266    $,68a      4,967     5,978     7,112     $,65    10,009
Loss:  Accumulated depreciation      852      488       627      847    1,109     1,434     1,805     2,244     2,7C8    3,886
Net Fixed Assets In Operation     970    1.346    1.875    2.410    2.729      3.628     4.173     4.,60 e   6KM    6.824
Loes: Co sumse a'ontributions
Lve s:ued      h            122      162      187      218       247       292       39        392       461      519
Balance                           848    1.194    1.688    2.200    2.482      8.231     3.834    4.4/8      5.4J9    6.I1
Rate Base                                 1.021    1.441    1.944    2.341     2.650     3.652     4.166     4.91M    6.772
/a The rate bass Is the average of net fixed assets in operation, loss reovlued consumersn contributions.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN - Non-Java Operations
Break-Even Revenue Covenant Monitoring Indicators
(Rp billion)
Actual         Estimate                          Projection
Fiscal year                                      1986187   1987t88    1988189  1989/90  1990/91  1991192  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Revenues
Operating revenues                               330       374          440      637        780      933    1,115    1,326   1,553
Net nonoperating income                           (6)       (6)          (3)     (10)        (4)       (4)      (4)       (2)      (1)
Total Revenues                                324      368          437       627        776      929    1,111    1,324   1,552
Total Operating Expenses                           444       532          594      723        835       943    1,046    1,188   1.316
Of which:  Depreciation                           96       134          175      200        259      308       359       424      495
Debt Service
Interest charged operations                       19       20           20        50         70       71        91       113     124
Debt repayment                                    19      109          100        79         98        78       93       107     122
Total Debt Service                             38      129          120       129       168       149       184      220      246
Excess of debt service over depreciation             -         -            -        -          -         -        -         -        _
Revenues required for break-even                   444       532          594      723        835       943    1,046    1,188   1,316
Total revenues as 2 of revenues required for
break-even                                        73        69           74       87         93        98      106       111      118
Operating ratio (Z)                                135       142          135      113        107       101       94        90       85
o 0



ANNEX 19
91 -                         Page 1
!NDONESIA
POVER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1.       Inflation has been taken into account at the following rates (Z):
1992 and
Year:            1987    1988     1989      1990     1991    after
Offshore costs /a             9.8       5.3       5.3      5.3      4.1      4.1
Local costs /b                9.3       9.0       9.0      9.0      5.2      5.2
/a Including indirect offshore costs, excluding fuels.
/b Excluding indirect offshore cost and fuels.
2.       Separation of accounts of PLN's operations in Java and outside Java
is based on individual accounts maintained by PLN for each of its regional
units. These accounts are separate except for overhead expenses, which, for
the purposes of financial projections, have been allocated proportionately on
the basis of unit sales of energy. In the financial projections, consumers'
contributions have also been allocated in a similar manner.
3.       Energy sales are based on the sales forecasts that have been agreed
for the planning of PLN's system expansion program (para. 2.8).
4.       Revenues for FY89/90 are based on an average tariff increase of 25Z
that became effect April 1, 1989. For fiscal years thereafter, the tariff is
adjusted annually by 4? to absorb the impact of increases in operating costs
(other than fuel), and on the rate base assumed in the financial forecasts.
Efficiency gains are assumed to be internalized to improve the financial
performance of PLN so that it can undertake an increasing precentage of self-
financing of its rapidly growing investment program.
5.       Fuel/bulk power for FY89/90 is based on the budget, and for FY90/91
and beyond is derived from PLN's computer simulation of system operation. The
fuel costs are calculated on the basis of current domestic fuel prices charged
to PLN, plus transportation costs. The fuel prices to PLN are not escalated,
on the assumption that any increases during the forecast period will be passed
on to PLN's electricity customers through its tariff.
6.       Operating expenses, other than fuel and personnel expenses, have been
forecast taking into account the facilities expected to be in use each year,
and subject to foreign and local coss_64flation, as appropriate. Personnel



-92-                             ANNEX 19
Page 2
expenses are assumed to increase at an overall rate of 61 p.a. in line with
expected productivity gains.  Repair and maintenance expenses for PLN's Java
and non-Java operations are estimated at 1.12 and 1.6Z of their respective
revalued gross fixed assets in operation during the preceding fiscal year.
7.       Depreciation is based on the application of PLN's normal rates
(straight-line method) to assets revalued annually. For purposes of corporate
income tax, the current Indonesian tax code permits the use of the accelerated
method of depreciation of assets in operation instead of the straight-line
method.
8.       Financing.  Terms of foreign borrowings are assumed to be 20 years
including 5 years' grace, at average interest rates of 102 p.a. in
FY89/90-FY90/91, and 11  p.a. in FY91/92 and thereafter.  Terms of local
borrowings, which are to be from Government-owned banks, are assumed to be 12
years including two years' grace, at interest rates of 182 p.a. from FY89/90
onwards.
9.       Capital expenditures are based on PLN's investment program (Annexes 6
and 7) to meet the projected sales growth (para. 3 above), and exclude costs
of geothermal steam field development, which are assumed to be incurred by
another agency. The 102 Value Added Tax (VAT) on the foreign contracts is
assumed to be borne by Government, and on the local contracts it is assumed to
by borne by PLY.
10.      Gross fixed assets, work in progress and consumers' contributions are
revalued annually, up to FY86/87 according to Government Regulation No.
45/1986, date October 2, 1986, and from FY87188 onwards, according to weighted
annual escalation rates (foreign and local). The rate base is the average of
the revalued net fixed assets in operation, less revalued consumers' contribu-
tions. The rate base does not include work in progress.
11       Customer accounts receivables are assumed at 40 days of energy
revenues.
12.      Transmission and Distribution (T&D) system losses are estimated to
decline by about 0.72 in FY88/89 to a level of about 182 and are assumaed to
decline gradually thereafter to a level of about 14.32 in FY94195.
13.      Substitution of fuel oil in the existing oil-fired plant at Gresik in
Java by natural gas is assumed to be completed in two phases during
FY90/91-FY92/93 when gas-based generation is projected to account for about
172 of total energy generation in Java.
14.      For PLN's operations outside Java, implementation of an action plan
to improve the efficiency of these operations (e.g., reduction of T&D system
losses) and to reduce costs, is assumed for the forecast period.
15.      All projections are net of Corporate tax.  Based on the current
Indonesian tax code, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax
during the projection period (para. 5.22).



Table 1
- 93 -
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN's Tariff
Explanation of the Tariff Categories
in the Basic Tariffs of Electricity, 1989
Tariff
category      Contracted power             Explanation of tariff category
Sl                  to   200 VA         For small consumers (lr; voltage)
S2           250 VA to   200 kVA        For small to medium soclal institutions (low
voltage)
S3           201 kVA and over           For large social institutions (medium
voltage)
R1           250 VA to   500 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
R2           501 VA to 2,200 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
R3         2,201 VA to 6,600 VA         For medium residential service (low voltage)
R4         6,601 VA and over            For large residential service (low voltage)
U1           250 VA to 2,200 VA         For small commercial service (low voltage)
U2         2,201 VA to   200 kVA        For medium commercial service (low voltage)
U3           201 kVA and over           For large commercial service (medium voltage)
U4                                      For temporary service (low voltage)
I1/H          250 VA to  99 kVA          For small hotel industry service (low
voltage)
I2/H          100 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium hotel industry service (low
voltage)
I3/H          201 kVA and over           For large hotel industry service (medium
voltage)
Ii           450 VA to 13.9 kVA         For small industrial service (low voltage)
I2           14 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium industrial service (low voltage)
|  I3        201 kVA and over           For medium industrial service (medium
voltage)
I4         10,000 kVA and over          For large industrial service (high voltage)
Gl           250 VA to 200 kVA          For small to medium office service (low
voltage)
G2           201 kVA and over           For large office service (medium voltage)
J                  _                   For street lighting service (low voltage)
Source: PLN Finance Department.



POW  SB rD  EFF1CC  PROJBr
PLN u Tariff
History of Tariff Ad.u.at_nt. 1902-1980
I082 *FFbruar  l _F.bruary                         - 1_6  fNhrch)                                 1( tA.-umt_                            1969 (Ar,i 1
Tariff   Mgeed                 Averge   Dewmnd         ery      Average   Deend   energy    Average    Demand        energ        A g         em              Energw         Average
cateory  charge       charge     prie      charge     charge      price    charge   charg       price     charge      char           rie      char             ear             prie
(Rp /kVA)   fWh)    (p/kWh)  (R/hVA)    (/kWh)    (tp/kwh)  (fp/kVA) (fp/kWh)  (fp/Wh)   (ftp/kVA)   (A/kh)              (3/kwi)   (/VA)            (p/h)           Jf/1h )
S1       LA          -          -          I&        -           -         LS        -        -           Ls           o0.e0                  L               -       r        7.80
2    1"600         22.00       34.12   1.6S0       35.00        48.22   2.100      43.50     60.57      2.100      43.80          U.62   2.700              45.00             61.67
55        -          -          -           -        -           -              -             -            -         -             -       3,100          PaUS.3              04.12
Ss                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPe46S.00
RI   .100          37.50       48.85   1,80        56.00        67.21   2.100      70.50     85.10      2,100      70.50          69.56   3,100   63.50 for < O(   s /a/.   kus.U
66.00 for > gObra:/as.
R2    1,600        45.50       55.76    1,600      67.00        70.12   2.100      84.50     06.41     2.100       64.50         100.07   3,160   76.00 for < O0hr-./a.   119.74
118.80 for > Sirs./e..
Ft3    2,800       63.50       66.06   2,600       e7.00       121.76   s,60     126.30    136.42      3.680     126.60         19.60   8.M               161.o0            202.66
R4    2,8w         70.50       99.09   2,o00       117.50      17.50  3s,60       16.00    034.10       3,690     158.00         166.5    5.500            166.50             1109.1
U1    2.0          600         64.67   2,6o0        9.50       21.04   8,68       134.00    160.10  I.60          14.00          167.67  5,.6D  166.00 for < lirg./mg.  209.50
150.11 for  114nab./no.
U2    2,800        70.00       06.17   2,600      106.50       137.37   3,680    150.00    160.73       5.600    15.00          160.92   6,110  1*6.60 fwor < 5Ir./m.  244.43
146.60 for > lSOhra./s..
U3    1,750    WBP * 74.00    63.46    1.750   P - 111.00       69.20   2,800   P a 1oo00  123.17       2,300   P a 186.00       116.78   a,400 Po21a. so                    12.0? 
LWP * 46.50                      oP * 70.00                      oP - 00.00                      oP * 06.0o                                DrP100.60                     4
U4        -       160.00      160.00        -     221.00       221.00       -    807.00    807.00          -      807.00         307.00        -           400.00            400.00
1,H   2,800        54.50       6.0         -         -           -          -       -         -            -         -            91.48    3.4D0            37.00            112.46
Ip    1,750        s8.50       44.45       -                                                                                         1  -S2.1    S.46       96.00           114.6
13H       -          -          -          -                                                                                      73.44  34,160             64.00            102.86
I     1,750   WVP * 4.o        53.33    1,750    P a 81.50     76.65   2,800  P - 106.00   03.97       2.300    P * 97.60         60.e6   0,460              41.00          106.91
InW a 30.50                      oP * 51.00                     OP * 66t.00                      oP  80.80
2    1,780    WP a 4.so    46.00    1,780    P * 77.00         67.13   2S300  P * 100.00  6U.51        2S00    P  9 92.80        62.44    3,460         Pr U.so0           010.62
U   . 20.00                      oP a 48.00                     oP * 62.80                       oP - 57.80                               o& e70.00
Is    1,600    WP  44.00    36.19   1,600    P *8.50            88.40   2100   P * 06.80   75.88       2,100    P * 90.60         73.28   3.160           P.1.00             65.06
WtP * 27.80                      OP * 43.00                     OP a 60.50                       OP * 86.60                                OP.66.00
14    1.s8o     WUP * 40.00    84.01    16C00    P * 86.w0       44.12    1070   P * 81.50    61.18    1.970    P a 77.00         56.22   2.66           Pr116.50            76.90
P* 25.80                         OP - 37.00                     oP  5 82.00                      oP  48.0                                  oP60.00
01    2,8W         46.00       62.00   2,600       71.00        69.06   3,680      96.00     20.86     5,680       96.00         126.71   5.0              1250.S            161.04
%/Nv  1'800    WUP . 44.00    44.10   1.800    P * 72.00         64.02    1.970   P a 09.00   84.02      1.970    P * 99.w0        67.)6    2.6t0          r. 19.50           112.47
LWUP * 30.00                     OP * 47.00                     oP   85.00                       oP a 68.00                               OM .sP o
i        -        41.00       41.00        -      86.80        86.50              76.60     76.50         -       73.80          76.60        -            t4.00             a.00
himao                        mm~                              ZLZZ                                                              I                                          113.31
1  Tariff Si:  100 to 200 VA * Rfp 1,48 to 2935/meonth
Tariff S- 100 to 200 VA a RD 2.010 to 4 020/oonth
Tariff Si: 100 to 200 VA a Rp 2 510 to 8.025/month
Tariff S' 60 to 200 VA . R 1,750 to S450/month
Note; W*  P   P eak hora (18:00-22:00)
LWUP a OP . 0ff-peak  ours (22:00-18:00)                                                                                                                                               x Ieoy    Lsu'ecw
For 1983, the tariff ategory as reduced to A7 ;4riff etegories. Categories H  (now I /) and ;  (noI     for hotel conauar with lew volte were OrOed inteo  I ae dX
reectively. For 1989. the tariff cat.  ry is ax anded from 17 to 21 cteore                                                                                                             1,ti   cit*
end eaparete tariff categoric. (I /14I    I MI)  aov. been established frotel consumeers cith lo. andl   urm voltage., who wore previosly grouped with induetrial cgnaeaeer at
corresponding voltage.* (I1 12 anh 23). The lverag  price ahown for 1986 relate, to th. tariff cateori  i 1969.
SouPce: PIN Finance Department.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PLN's Tariff
Average Revenue from Electricity Sold, by Major Consumers
(Rp/kWh)
Tariff category      1978179  1979180  1980/81  1981/82  1982183  1983/84  1984185  1985/86  1986187  1987/88
Residential          29.51      29.55    49.43    49.50    64.09    85.01   102.15   102.59   102.35   102.64
Commercial           34.98      33.99    63.92    68.45    90.17   123.73   167.66   168.99   167.77   165.77
Industrial           23.72      23.58    31.77    33.08    42.84    58.15    77.62    75.78    70.84    69.78
Buildings            27.57      27.40    42.59    43.78    58.17    79.18    91.76    91.98    91.58    92.25
Lightings            20.10      20.10    33.84    35.18    44.90    59.56    78.02    77.83    78.17    78.07
Source: PLN Finance Department.



INOONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
P;N n Oil Consumption Statistics
The date of              1976/79       1979/S0     1960/31      1961/S2     1962/03      19J/64                 1965/66   196/67       1967/US
fuel price change      04/01/76     04/05/79    05/01/50      01/04/52    01/07/63    12/01/94    19S4/t      04/01/15   07/10/96
WDIriOsoaHS        KI   766,219       660,251     842,441      086,290   1,036,041      965,627     932,961    646,071   6UJ,106   1,2JJ,S07
Price of fuel
("SD)           Rp/I    26.00        36.00        62.50        65.00      146.00      220.00      220.00      242.00     200.00      200.00
Average price in
an FY           Rp/l    25.76         84.79       51.84        60.4S       97.13      167.06       221.97    J3t.00      224.S2       202.00
Industrial DieOl
OI  t              KI    31,773        16,116      16,264       11,946      34,067       41,756      92,29      31,100       1,S 2      66,357
Price of fuel
(100)           Rp/I    22.00        30.00        45.00        76.00      125.00      200.00      200.00      220.00     200.00      200.00
Average prico in
an FY           Rp/lI   24.54         39.70       46.45        54.47       90.83      140.97       205.5      226.19     224.32       219.01
Residual             KI  430,232       695,236   1,161,961    1,863,273   1,773,652   2,086,247   2,162,650  2,183,351  1,640,722   1,990,592
Price of fuel
(residual)      Rp/I    22.00        30.00       45.00         75.00      125.00      200.00      200.00     220.00      200.00      200.00
Avorage price in
an FY           Rp/I   22.27         29.47        42.54        53.17       s6.7n      141.39      203.56      224.62     214.03      206.74
Source: PLN Finance Department.
l 



ANNEX 21
- 97 -                              Table 2
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Domestic and World Prices of Petroleum Products
(As of October 1988)
Share of     International   Domestic  Ratio of domestic
Category             consumption  parity price lb   price      to world price
(Z) /a           (Rp/liter) -------           (2)
Aviation turbo            2.6             265          250            0.94
Gasoline super            0.9            242           440            1.82
Gasoline regular         18.2            231           385            1.66
Kerosene                 27.2            255           165            0.64
Automotive diesel        33.9             2!9          200            0.76
Industrial diesel         5.2            244           200            0.81
Fuel oil                 11.9            144           200            1.39
Total/Average     100.0             237           226           0.95
/a 1987 data.
/b Based on estimated average price of Indonesian crude of US$15.00 per bar-
rel, converted at 159 liters/barrel.  US$1.00 - Rp 1,700.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Calculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
FY                         Inv.stmsntu                                 Incromntal Incremntal Incemrsntl  Coneeu_rs'   Total
(endTng       Generation   TID    Total  Shadow priFe  Production        production   fuel cost   0tM cost   contributlon   coot
March 31)                 -  (USI millon)                    -    (Gl)    -USI million)
is         I&                 Id                                        /o            /e
1964               40.0         -    46.0        42.0              -                -           -         -            -         42.0
1985              280.5         -   280.5       218.2              -                -           -         -            -        218.2
1966              404.6         -   404.6       874.8              -                -           -         -            -        874.8
1967              478.6         -   478.6       4J8.1              -                -           -         -            -        436.1
1988              401.0         -   461.0       420.4         17,578                -           -         -            -        426.4
1969              110.0     802.5   672.5       622.1         19,701            2,128        23.0        84.8        -07.9      611.6
1990               49.5     401.6   451.1       417.1         22,514            4,931        84.6        41.1        -74.7      41.6.
1991                0.6     458.7   454.5       420.4         25,740            6,162       105.7        47.0        -62.2      491.4
1992                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,102       106.7        47.9            -      1U8.2
1968                 -          _       _          _          26,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
1994                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       105.7        47.9            -      158.2
199C                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      158.2
1996                 -          -       -          -          25,740            3,162       106.7        47.9            -      158.2
1997                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.1
1998                 -          -       -          -          25,740           *,162        105.7        47.9            -      11U.2
1999                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       105.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2000                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2001                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      158.2
2002                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      168.2
2008                 -          -       -          -          26,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      168.2
2004                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      158.2
2006                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      168.2
2000                 -          _       _                     25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2007                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2006                 _                                        26,740            6,162       105.7        47.9            -      158.2
2009                 -          -       -          -          26,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2010                 -          -       -          -          25,740            *,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2011                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      168.2
2012                 -          -       -          -          25,740            6,162       106.7        47.9            -      15U.2
2018                 -          -       -          -          26,740            6,102       106.7        47.9            -      158.2
a Generation Investments ore for the projects schduled to be comissioned 196/60-1900/91.
TAD invstments from 196/6-1090/91 are total planned (Annex 6).
OUM cost are ostimated at 1.5C of the Investments.
Shadow pricing: About 606 of the Investment program consist of qgaipment and materials imported at offshore prices. This
component does not need shado  pricingp  Out of the remaining 40%, about 206 would be for local mtrlIals with shado  price factor
of 0.80, 1OX for unsklIled labor with shado  price factor of 0.6 ond 10% for skileod labor with a shadow price J ctor of 1.0
since skilIld labor Is *carce. The composite shadow price facter for the total lnvestmnt cost works out to 0.926.
/f Fuel costs have ben workod out using an operatlon simulation model. The economic costa of fuel are as follows: coaI, U5624 per
ton; fuol oil, UStO.10 per liter; diesel, USS0.17 per liter; natural gas, USS1.40 per Mcf; geothermal steam, USS0.029 per kWh.
.



INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Calculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
FY                   Sales                                Ineroental sales               Revenue   Addl econoei bfit.b                 Benefits
ond-  R                                         Rooi- Co_er-  Indus-  Gla Corner-  Indus-  at average ResI                      Total   minus
ing  dential   einl   Public  trial   Total dential   cirl    Public  trial   Total  tariff a dential   trial   Total   benefits  costs
03/31  ------------------------------------- (h) -------------------------------------  -------               (US   iltlion) ----------------------
1984       -        -        -       -       -         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -     -42.6
1986       -        -        -       -       -         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -    -213.2
1988       -        -        -       -       -         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -    -374.3
1987       -        -        -       -       -        -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -    -438.1
1988   4,933    1,067    1,490   8,912  13,398         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -    -426.4
1989    6.623    1,108    1.785   6,929  15,845      690      61     289    1,017   1,947   128.6      42.8    27.3   70.1    198.6  -413.0
1990    6,233    1,161    2,090   8,173  17,647    1,300      94     594    2,261   4,249  2M0.4       94.2    60.6  154.8       436.2   16.7
1991    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160     922    3,794   6,696   466.1    147.2   101.7  248.4    704.0  212.6
1992    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160     922    3,794   6,696   465.1    147.2   101.7  248.9    704.0  550.8
1993    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160    922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7  243.9         704.0  550.8
1994    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160    922    3,794   6,896   455.1    147.2   101.7  240.9         704.0  550.8
1995   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,896   465.1    147.2   101.7  248.9    704.0  550.8
1996    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160     922    3,794   6,896   455.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  550.3
1997    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030    1SO      922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7   243.9       704.0  650.8
I99    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,896   456.1    147.2   101.7  248.9         704.0  660.3
1999   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7  243.9         704.0  660.8
2000   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      1S0     922    3,794   6,869    466.1    147.2   101.7  248.0    704.0  650.8
2001    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160     922    8,794   6,89e   455.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  560.3
2002   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030    1SO       922    3,794   8,896   455.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  660.8
2003   0,903    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,896  466.1    147.2   101.7  248.9    704.0  660.8
2004    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     160    922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7  243.9         704.0  650.8
2005   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030    1SO       922    3,794   6,896   465.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  550.3
2006   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,896   456.1    147.2   101.7  24e.9    704.0  560.3
2007    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,700  20,294    2,030     150    922    3,794   6,896   456.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  650.3
2008   6,968    1,207   2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030       150    922    3,794   6,896   465.1    147.2   101.7  241.9         704.0  560.8
2009    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030     150    922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7  243.9         704.0  560.8
2010    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706 20,294    2,030    i10       922    3,794   6,896   466.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  650.0
2011    6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706 20,294    2,030      160     922    3,794   6,896  465.1    147.2   101.7  240.9    704.0  560.3
2012   6,968    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,030      150    922    3,794   6,39   465.1    147.2   101.7  243.9          704.0  550.3
2013   6,963    1,207    2,418   9,706  20,294    2,080      150    922    8,794   6,896   455.1    147.2   101.7  243.9    704.0  660.3
Aver   tariff a Rp 113.2 per kWh a US# 6.66 per kWh.
Z   Additronol economic benefit for residential and industrial consumrs calculated as follow, (me  paras. 6.11 and 6.12):
Residential   : Avrage revenue per kWh * Rp 123.26 = USe 7.26;
Additional economic benefit a US$ 7.26 per kWh.                                                                               >
Industrial    : Average revenue per kWh a Rp 91.2 a US4 5.36;
Additional economic bensift * US# 2.68 rar kWh.
Notes:   (1)  1ERW - 10.8X.
(2)  IERR with only revonue at prevoiling tariff as benofit * 8.63



- 100 -                               ANNEX 23
Page I
INDONESIA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Reports on the Sector
1. Legislation Affecting PLNa Electricity Act of 1985.
2. Final Accounts of PLN, 1987/88.
3. Audit Report of PLN, 1987/88.
4. Financial Forecasts (1988/89-1994/95) and Working Papers.
5. Commercial Information, 1986/87, PLN.
6. Annual Financial Information, 1986/87,PLN
7. The Decree of the President of the Republic of Indonesia No. 3 of the Year
1983, Concerning the Procedures of Promoting and Supervising Departmental
Agency (PERJAN), Public Corporation (PERUH) and Limited Liability S-te
Corporation (PERSCRO), dated February 17, 1983.
8. The Decree of the President of the Republic of Indonesia No. 28 of the
Year 1983, Concerning Amendment to Decree No. 3 of the Year 1983, dated
November 28, 1983.
9. Electricity Basic Tariff, 1989 PLN.
10. Long Run Marginal Cost Study, 1987, PLN.
11. Government Regulation No. 45/1986 dated October 2, 1986, concerning the
adjustment of prices or acquisition values of assets in connection with
the change of the Rupiah exchange rate in September 1986.
12. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 185/DIR/85 on the Corporate
Five-Year Plan (1984/85-1988/89).
13. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 090/DIR/87 on the Action Plan
for Improving Accounting Functions, 1987/88-1989/90.
14. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 097/DIR/87 on Action Plan for
Improving Consumer Administration, 1987/88-1989/90.
15. Circular letter No. 013/PST/1987 regarding Report on Rural Electricity, by
PLN's Board, dated October 5, 1987.



AMX  23
- 101 -                                Page 2
16. Java Distribution Project Scope 1990/91-191/92 - Report by PLN (April 25,
1989).
17. Hydroelectric Generating Plants Improvement Program: Renovation of Hydra
Power Plants, June 1987 (Report by PLN).
18. Java West Telecommunications Systems Technical Proposal, March 1987,
Report by Jeca Worley International.
19. Diesel Generation Efficiency Improvemont Studys Joint UNDP/World Bank
report No. 09i/88 of December 1988.
20. PLN's Investment Program (1987/88-2000/01) Scenario 4B1C, of Februrary
1989.



_XI-HAILAND I i l t,,to  i   'irsoi 
s? \. J < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                                                                      ;             ~PLN  GEERATIIIN            CAAC1i            By    '.
_        0YkM~~~ALAYSIA                                                                                 L ,1BUE.M   r                                                             1.7       Vil  1                    _ -
>   o_   ".   (   o.   \                     T        *t                                        ^                                    1I  st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 vil  22^  - - -~
i 75 ;. t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i\5/V 119ol                                                                          IJ7
.. ^-.  \   '  t   ^   % MAL AY S l A   {)     \                                             /   ,<  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ vl  236  JAWA 5773~~~~~~~~36 AW
. 51t:IQ:  }    ,,,jk  sSING  > _   /                     0          ,                                  g   9' S v ~~~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~HALMA ERA       .  , *'e.7                .
v   1ll  - , ~~~~~~~P.  cn AA]NAN5la0    ,    .g\,/t>~  os
-  Pdss* saohltO/                                                                                      L-js /t                                        t J                                 /
;     J sl    xaAcA                                         5O     tIXWn            \         ||.-> J    rEU  SXKALhl \  -_?MANTAN               ~wocpr
Pd. ^ -la   dArERA             ,       Tnusnc/\            2?\                                                  \SLW51%                                                       ,\9          y> 
?   3Tni ? Eim i BZOV6>        ?- ?                      @r                                  ~            t A            Eh S \     ;              _Pt   sbFe        4/A/vJAIz VI   
-"  _ Uibj  AlW A r E > ,                                                                                                          I x  
4www ~ ~                                                                                                                           6 -  OWR   FkfCUYi
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ,,,,N JAYA;* <W                                                     __     
'T.b.~JAW Ow.              Sr 111                                        7Xt-   ol                    .5-                     <-e
,,,.1 E,                                      ,                                                                                 Cpu Ohr- IFI;DCU a o.oxo30 rs50
ul,ItM. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    5*                 SFn . f/
_eh4s/*l71 11W _f~                                                                           f.t-                                                     8  10  2g01004,0  5O  oO  ooeo
X I L ome I *hS~~~~~~~~~~'
hepF 01 rs  h  a  f W   r_,   k y ,                                                                                                - Fko
-sr o~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         JAXART B_Od
or ~          ~~~~      ~~~         AWAlo15@10                                                                           2                         1b                         3                          4
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 9d



IBRD 2071
INDONESIA
SUMATERA                                                                                                                                                                          POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSON LINES
F s -   UNOIf         FUTURE
EITN  CONSTUUCtION    0"FLOMENT
Teanimissikm Lines:
150 kV + 70 kV
s   JAKARTA                                                                                                                                *                              U          Powr  Statios
K,A-0~ S'nI     0/*                                                                                                                                                                                                500 kV So&stoticuts
R.dstos Slerl _8qk 5 im<e m4k _   _                                                                                                                                  150 kv + 70 kV Subtftiat                         6
XIV     PLN's Wiloyab Numbers
T$|,g~4;~ R                                                                                                         Skosblung ' _*   &   SKosoTg   ~   ZImiro  Wiloal, o,r Distribusi Headqwrters
Jo. bng-                                                                                                    .....   PLN's Wiloyabh Bownaris
____ Xi--vug,lwD                  So .og             c POI,T                                       SEMARANG
Ublug   \  ~    \-zDo5  Summ                cl P=l.                                       S.na  5". in  o
cianjbt \p;&;aragl~- F  (Ci,&bo)                                             --Jm--- - - - - - -
Pe aUGha                 Tie:do'gv Ld gUjngbenT olOog _
7Mm4 a rr= > JAWA BARAT                                                                    Iomasn<Kamoiong .. _l< ~~ XP<rnton . SJRABAYA
TOT, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          S
S.       dr.iil
To:g'hnro,aoe    X I V 07.G.    ~         Sop                                                                                 gbe... T                                               JAWA TENGIMUAHR*booe
.eas:/ame~~eoo SSo                                                     Jrdb. :                            Ieeyooe:T,E *,
VCh~~~~BN                                                                                                                     W .e. :, r =eg   os;9JAW      >\ 
JAKARTA                                                                                                                                           \                ogii ./En i\
\KOSAPI  u m   os  diodaos SEMAPANG                                      traoWmi                                                                                                             /r                                                          t
\   /  Ungorans-- -   _   \   <  Ngugel   0  5d  IdO  150I KILOMFriI
<,v > < Jelok ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 9 7\ 6O   80 4i ddaoIO ES
\   _   /\       _             /                   \       \                                                                                                                      APRIL iRBl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIL18



