Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3097 IND
                 (Power Sector Efficiency Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
                        Dated July 21, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3097 IND
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  21,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM
LISTRIK NEGARA (PLN).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent   to  three  hundred  thirty-seven
million dollars ($337,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PLN agrees
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  PLN,  the  proceeds of the Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to PLN on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  2
and
     WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. PLN declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
and, to this end, shall  carry  out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and  public  utilities practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by  the  provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PLN shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  PLN  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  PLN  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PLN shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by PLN  of  its  obligations  under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. PLN shall, on March 31 of each year, commencing
on  March  31,  1990,  and  thereafter  until  Project completion,
review, in consultation with  the  Bank, its plan for distribution
expansion in Java to  identify  any  required changes, revise said
plan as required and, thereafter,  implement said plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.07. For purposes of carrying out the rehabilitation
of diesel power plants  under  Part  A  of  the Project, PLN shall
prepare and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its  approval, a report
containing an evaluation  and  justification  of each Sub-project.
For purposes of this Section, the term "Sub-project" means all the
activities required  for  the  rehabilitation  of  selected diesel
Page  3
power plants under Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.08. PLN shall, in consultation with the Bank, carry
out  an  action  plan  for  efficiency  improvements  for  all its
operations. Without limitation on  the  foregoing, such plan shall
include  detailed,   monitorable   targets   for   PLN's  non-Java
operations, and PLN shall carry  out  such  part  of the plan in a
manner that shall  reach  the  break-even  requirements of Section
4.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PLN
     Section 3.01. PLN shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall  maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations  and  shall take all steps necessary to
acquire,  maintain  and  renew  all  interest  in  land  and other
properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful  in  carrying  out  the  Project or in the
conduct of its business.
     (b)  PLN shall at all times  operate and maintain its plants,
facilities,  equipment  and   other   property,  and  promptly  as
required, make  all  necessary  repairs  and  renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
     (c)  Except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, PLN shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise  dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be  required  for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
     Section  3.03.  PLN   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  PLN  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PLN shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently   applied  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said   records,   accounts  and  financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from  time  to  time reasonably request,
               including without limitation  on  the foregoing its
Page  4
               segregated financial  and  operating information on
               rural  electrification   activities,   as  well  as
               unaudited accounts, all  as  soon as available, but
               not later than  six  months  after  the end of each
               such year.
     Section 4.02.  PLN  shall  periodically  review  its long run
marginal costs  and  tariff  structure,  and  shall  discuss, in a
timely manner, the results of the review with the Borrower and the
Bank.
     Section 4.03. For the  purposes  of the calculations referred
to in Section 4.06 (a) (i)  and  (ii) of this Agreement, PLN shall
for its fiscal year 1989/90  and  for each fiscal year thereafter,
revalue  its  fixed  assets   (including   work  in  progress  and
consumers'  contributions),  and  accumulated  depreciation,  in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
shall not incur  any  debt  unless  a  reasonable  forecast of the
revenues and expenditures  of  PLN  shows  that  the projected net
revenues of PLN for each fiscal  year  during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall  be  at  least  1.5  times the projected debt
service requirement  of  PLN  in  such  year  on  all  debt of PLN
including the  debt  to  be  incurred.  For  the  purposes of this
Section:
     (a)  The term "debt" means  any  indebtedness of PLN maturing
by its terms more than  one  year  after  the  date on which it is
originally incurred.
     (b)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other  instrument providing for such debt
or further modification of its  terms  of  payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the  agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into.
     (c)  The term "net revenues  of  PLN" means gross revenues of
PLN from  all  sources,  adjusted  to  take  account  of the PLN's
tariffs in effect  at  the  time  of  the  incurrence of debt even
though they were not in  effect  during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate,  less  all  operating expenses of PLN,
including expenses accountable  to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in  lieu  of  taxes),  but before provision for
depreciation of assets and interest and other charges on debt.
     (d)  The term "debt service  requirement" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of,
and interest and other charges on, debt.
     (e)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
by PLN in the fiscal year in  which  the debt in question is to be
incurred, which both the Bank and  PLN accept as reasonable and as
to which the Bank has  notified PLN of its acceptability, provided
that no event has occurred  since  such notification which has, or
may reasonably be  expected  in  the  future  to  have, a material
adverse effect  on  the  financial  condition  or future operating
results of PLN.
     (f)  Whenever for the purposes  of  this  Section it shall be
necessary to value, in  terms  of  currency  of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such  valuation  shall be made on the
basis of the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange at which such
other currency is, at the  time  of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of  servicing  such  debt,  or,  with absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05.  PLN  shall,  as  part  of  its on-going annual
planning procedures:  (i)  prepare  a  ten-year financial forecast
based on its proposed  development  plan;  (ii) test each proposed
development  plan  for  financial  feasibility;  (iii)  develop  a
Page  5
financing plan  covering  the  first  five  years  of the forecast
period which will specify the  quantum of external funding and the
appropriate mix of equity  and  debt  and, to the extent possible,
identify potential financial  sources;  and  (iv)  ensure that its
recommended development plan and associated financial forecast and
financing plan are jointly reviewed  and  adopted by its Board and
that such plans and forecasts  will  be furnished to and discussed
with the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 4.06. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) PLN shall from time to time take all such measures as shall be
required to realize for  its  Java  operations,  no later than its
fiscal year 1989/90 and in each of its fiscal years thereafter, an
annual rate of return  of  not  less  than eight percent (8%); and
(ii) PLN shall from time to time take all such measures, including
those set forth in  Section  2.08  of  this Agreement, as shall be
required with respect  to  its  non-Java  operations to produce no
later than  its  fiscal  year  1992/93  and  in  each  fiscal year
thereafter, total revenues equal to not  less than the sum of non-
Java operations: (A) total operating  expenses; and (B) the amount
by  which  debt  service  requirements  exceed  the  provision for
depreciation.
     (b)  Before December 31 in each year, PLN shall, on the basis
of realistic forecasts, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet
the requirements set forth in paragraphs  (a) (i) and (ii) of this
Section for the next fiscal  year,  and  shall furnish to the Bank
such review upon its  completion;  such  review to take account of
the result of the discussions under Section 4.02 of this Agreement
and the efficiency of  PLN's  operations  outside Java pursuant to
the action plan provided for in Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the required annual  return  shall be calculated by
               dividing PLN's net  operating  income  for its Java
               operations for the fiscal  year in question by one-
               half of the sum of  the  current value of PLN's net
               fixed assets in  operation  for its Java operations
               at the beginning and the end of that fiscal year;
         (ii)  the term "net operating  income" means the revenues
               from all sources  related  to PLN's Java operations
               less all expenditures  incurred  on account of such
               operations, including  expenses  of administration,
               adequate maintenance and  taxes  or any payments in
               lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for  depreciation
               calculated on revaluated assets pursuant to Section
               4.03 of this Agreement.  Interest and other charges
               on debt shall not be deducted from gross revenues;
        (iii)  the  term  "value  of  PLN's  net  fixed  assets in
               operations for its Java operations" means the gross
               value of PLN's  fixed  assets  in operation on Java
               less the  amount  of  accumulated  depreciation and
               consumers' contributions, all  as  valued from time
               to time in accordance with the methods of valuation
               or revaluation referred to  in Section 4.03 of this
               Agreement;
         (iv)  the term "total  revenues"  means  the sum of total
               non-Java operating revenues  and  net non-Java non-
               operating income;
          (v)  the term "total  non-Java operating revenues" means
               revenues from  all  sources  related  to operations
               from outside Java;
         (vi)  the term "net  non-Java non-operating income" means
               the difference between:
               (A)  non-Java revenues from  all sources other than
Page  6
                    those related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above;
        (vii)  the  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  non-Java operations, including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation   calculated   on   revaluated  assets
               pursuant to  Section  4.03  of  this Agreement, but
               excluding interest and other charges on debt;
       (viii)  the term  "debt  service  requirements" relating to
               non-Java operations means  the  aggregate amount of
               repayments  (including  sinking  fund  payments, if
               any) of, and interest  and  other charges on, debt;
               and
         (ix)  whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of the
               currency of the  Borrower  debt  payable in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
               of the prevailing lawful  rate of exchange at which
               such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such
               valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
               such debt, or, in the  absence of such rate, on the
               basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PLN thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PLN thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  7
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For PLN:
          Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
          Jalan Trunojoyo 135
          Kebayoran Baru
          Jakarta 12160
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               PLNPST                          47156 PLNPST IA
               Jakarta                         47248 PLNPST IA
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  PLN  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
President Director of PLN or  such  other person or persons as the
President Director of  PLN  shall  designate  in  writing, and PLN
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
                    By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  8
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Spare parts  and  miscellaneous  equipment  for  diesel power
plants rehabilitation may be  procured  under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with the Borrower's procedures in effect as of the date
of this  Agreement;  provided  that,  equipment  for  diesel power
plants  rehabilitation  estimated   to   cost  less  than  $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with  procedures  in  effect  as  of  the  date of this
Agreement.
2.   Contracts for the  renovation  of  turbines and governors for
hydropower  plants  may  be   awarded   on  the  basis  of  direct
negotiations with  the  original  suppliers,  their  successors or
licensees, of such equipment.
3.   Rewinding and renovation of  generators for hydropower plants
may  be   procured   under   contracts   awarded  through  limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under  the  Guidelines  and  in accordance with
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or  more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist PLN in carrying out the Project, PLN shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the   Bank   on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
