Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFPICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5318-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 50.3 MILLION
TO
TUE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL I)
NOVEMBER 20, 1990
This doeument bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disWosed without World tank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             -         CFA franc (CFAF) 11
US$1.00                   -         CFAP 260
CF» 1 million             -         US$3,846
SYSTEM OF VEIGUTS AND )EASURE: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDH       s   Banque de Développement du Mali
CCCE      s    French Caisse Central de Cooperation Economique
CSAO      s   Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CIDA      s   Canadian International Development Agency
DPI       s   Droit Fiscal à l'Importation
£BC       s   European Economic Community
FID       s   Fonds Européen de Développement
FIAS      s   Foreign Investment Advisory Service
lAS       s    ImpOt sur les Affaires et Services
IDA       s    International Development Association
IH?       s    International Monetary Fund
ISCP      s    Impôt Spécial sur Certains Produits
MIGA      s   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
OUNME     s   Office National de la Main-d'oeuvre et de l'Emploi
OPEC      *   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Companies
PESAP     s   Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP       t   Policy Framework Paper
SGS       s    Société Générale de Surveillance
SOMIEX    à    Société Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation
SPA       s   Special Program of Assistance for Africa
TCI       s   Taxe Conjoncturelle à l'Importation
TDP       s   Taxe Dégressive de Protection
UMDA      s   Union Monétaire Ouest Africaine
USAID     s   United States Agency for International Development
UNDP      2   United Nations Development Program
VAT       s   Value-Added Tax
1i The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of PF 1.0
to CFA? 50.0. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CRED'T (SAL I)
Tabl of Contents
Credit ar.d Program Sgimmry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . . .1
A.   Recent Macroeconomic Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Government Economic Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
C.  Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements . . . . .  8
D.   Bank Group's Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
II.  SAL I PROGRAM 1990-92 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.   Macroeconomic Framework. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
B.   Incentives for Private Sector Development  . . . . . . . . 17
C.   Public Resource Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
D.   Social Dimensions of Adjustment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...............  ......                     .  31
A.  Credit History ....... .            ............   31
B.   Financing and Management of Program  . . . . . . . . . . . 31
C.  Monitorable Actions  ...... . ...........   33
D.   Benefits and Risks ....... ............   35
IV. RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Text Tables
Table 1:  External Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Table 2:  Structure of Current Budget Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 3:  Comparative Data on Civil Service Size and Remuneration  . 25
Table 4: Costs and Budgetary Savings of Voluntary Departure Program  28
Annexes
Annex I   Economic Indicators    ..  .               .               37
Annex II  Government's Letter of Development Policies.               39
Annex III Policy Matrix  ...............  ...   ..                   57
Annex IV  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Annex V   Status of Bank Group Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
Annex VI  Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OP MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHMENT CREDIT (SAL I>
Credit and Propram Summary
Borrowers      Republic of Hall
Amountz         SDR 50.3 million <US$70 million equivalent)
Cofinancing:   Tentative agreement with EEC and AfDB for US$20 million and
US$18 million equivalent in cofinancing or parallel
financing. Under discussion with France and the
Netherlands.
Termss         Standard IDA terns, vith a mbturity of 40 years
Program
Description:   The proposed SAL supports Mali's overall adjustment program
as outlined in the PFP for 1990-92 and focuses on
implementation in two key areas: private sector incentives
and public resource management. The p.-ivate sector
incentives component addresses trade, tax and regulatory
reform. The public sector resource management component
includes restructuring recurrent budget expenditure, civil
service reform, and improved investment programming.
Specific actions include elimination of export taxes and
quantitative restrictions on imports, simplification of
import taxation, introduction of a value-added tax, price
liberalization, reduction in labor market regulations,
reduction in the relative size of the vage bill in the
government budget, a major reduction in the size of the
civil service, increased budget allocations for expenditure
on health, education and routine road maintenance, and
strengthening budgetary control and public investment
programming.
Benefits
and Risks:     The proposed SAL is expected to contribute to the
restoration of internal and external financial and economic
equilibria through its impact on the Government budget and
external trade. The proposed measures to improve economic
incentives are also expected to have a positive impact on
economic growth and employment creation in the private
sector. The major risks are attempts by vested interests
who benefit from existing policies to defer or dilute
implementation of adjustment policies, slow implementation
due to relatively veak administrative capacity, and a
delayed supply response due to a recurrence of drought
conditions. These risks are minimized by the Government's
demonstrated strong resolve to implement reforms so far and
heavy front loading of the program; the design of the
program which focusses on a few major reforms,
simplification of administrative requirements, and the
provision of technical assistance in key areas; and the



- il -
introduction of increased flexibility in the economy to
respond to external shocks, including drought, and
accumulation of sufficient external reserves to maintain
the level of imports during periods of poor weather.
Estimated
Disbursements: US$66 million equivalent of credit would be released in
three equal tranches of US$22 million equivalent. The
first tranche would be released upon effectiveness; the
second tranche would be released after completion of a
specific list of core actions and a satisfactory
performance review to be held vithin 12 months of
effectiveness; the third tranche would be released after
completion of core actions and a second performance review
to be held vithin 12 months of release of the second
tranche. US$3.6 mJllion equivalent would be disbursed for
technical assistance required for program implementation.
US$0.4 millior. eqaivalent would reimburse PPF632-MLI used
for preparation of the credit.
IBRD 20576



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 50.3 million (US$70 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Republic of Mali to
help support the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. The African
Development Bank (AfDB> and the European Economic Community (EEC) intend to
provide US$18 million equivalent and US$20 million equivalent,
respectively, in cofinancing or parallel financing. France, Canada,
Germany, the U.S., the EEC and the OPEC Fund have already provided US$38.0
million equivalent of quick disbursing assistance in support of Mali's
1990-92 adjustment program. France and the Netherlands have also expressed
interest in providing additional cofinancing or parallel financing. France
and UNDP are supporting an Economic and Financial Management Support
Project which will provide key institutional strengthening and technical
assistance for implementation of Mali's adjustment prograE..
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Economic Performance
2.        Mali's economic performance is highly constrained by a narrow
resource base, variable climate, and the legacy of inappropriate past
policies. Nonetheless the adjustment and stabilization efforts pursued by
the Governxent since 1982 have contributed to an increase in per capita
incomes and domestic savings as well as major improvenrnts in the fiscal
and external accounts (cf. Mali Country Brief). Data -a key economic
indicators is provided in Annex I.
Growth
3.        GDP growth averaged about 6.0 percent per annum over the past
five years and 3.9 percent over the past decade. Theee averages mask large
annual variations, however, which are directly linked to climatic
conditions. During the last five years, for example, GDP growth has ranged
from -0.6 percent to 18.6 percent. Over the decade, growth in crop
production, particularly cereals and cotton, contributed the most to GDP
growth in absolute terms. The industrial sector, which remains small and
is dominated by agro-processing activities, had, hovever, the highest
average annual growth rate (8.1 percent). The construction, trade and
transportation sub-sectors also grev more rapidly than crop production.
All other sectors, including public administration, grew more slowly than
overall GDP. Most recently, exceptionally good veather and an improved
policy environment contributed to GDP growth of 9.5 percent in 1989. GDP
growth of only 0.3 percent is forecast for 1990, due to a decline in
agricultural production following the exceptioaal 1989 harvest. Gross



- 2 -
domestic investment has increased slowly as a share of (-DP over the last
decade, averaging 23.4 percent of GDP during 1985-89 and approximately 19.9
percent of GDP during 1980-89. The incremental capitalloutput ratio
averaged approximately 5.1 over the decade and approximately 4.0 during
1985-89.  Fixed capital formation has shown much less variability than GDP,
largely because of the importance of foreign financing in public investment
expenditure. Domestic savings, Vaich vere consistently negative in the
early 1980s and fell to -14.2 percent of GrP in 1985, have been positive
since 1987 and averaged 8.1 percent of GDP in 1987-89. 2!
4.        Mali's per capita income has increased at a rate of about 1
percent per annum over the past decade, reaching US$260 in 1989, one of the
lowest in the world. Although no detailed statistics are available, income
distribution appears relatively even. The Government realizes that any
substantial improvement in people's standard of living requires sustained,
videspread economic growth. T)- proposed SAL is designed to directly
foster such growth through the .emoval of distortions in the incentive
system and through more efficient use of public resources to support
productive activity and to provide basic public services to a larger share
of the population.
Fiscal and Monetary Performance
5.        The Government has pursued tight fiscal and monetary policies in
recent years. The curreit budget (including annexe' budgets and special
funds) moved from a deficit of 0.2 percent of GDP    1985 to a surplus of
2.3 percent of GDP in 1989.   Government current    enditure declined from
15.1 percent of GDP in 1985 to 14.2 percent in 1t . while revenues
increased from 14.9 percent of GDP to 16.5 percent. The overall government
budget deficit (including foreign-financed invest.ent expenditure) has
fallen steadily froia its peak of 15.2 percent of GDP in 1985 to 9.4 percent
cf GDP in 1989. Following a significant revenue shortfall in 1988, fiscal
performance improved dramatically in 1989, as vigorous efforts vere made to
strengthen tax administration and curtail tax evasion. On the expenditure
side, the Government in 1989 maintained the wage bill at about its nominal
1988 level and the system for monitoring government expenditures was
strengthened. The monetary authorities have also pursued a tight credit
policy, while the Governrment has reduced its obligations vis-à-vis the
banking system in each of the past three years in order to free credit for
private sector use.
6.        Given Mali's membership in the West African Monetary Union
(UMOA) and the fixed exchange rate between the CFA franc and the French
franc, anti-inflationary policies are necessary to hold the cost structure
and price increases in Mali below those of its competitors and trading
partners. As a result of the above-mentioned tight monetary and fiscal
policies, as vell as a freeze on the minimum vage and civil service
salaries since 1986, the authcrities have been successful in containing
inflation and improving Mali's international competitiveness. Inflation,
2/ Domestic savings vere unusually low in 1985 due to drought conditions
and unusually high in 1989 because of the exceptional harvest and
corresponding accumulation of stocks.



- 3 -
as measured by the GDP deflator, vas -1.2 percent ii 1989, averaged 1.5
percent per annum over the past five years, and averaged approximately 3.6
percent over the last decade. The roal effective exchange rate declined
during 1980-83, rose in 1984-85, fell dramatically in 1986-87, and has
remained largely unchanged since then. Its level in 1989 vas about 20
percent below that of 1980. The real exchange rate index used here is
trade-veighted and consequeitly does not take into account the evolution of
exchange rates in countries competing vith but not trading vith Mali.
Desp'te the considerable depreciation of the real effective exchange rate
during the 19809, further depreciation is required to offset the sharp drop
in Mali's terms of trade during the 1970s and restore the couutry's
competitiveness vis-à-vis competitor countries. After declining by
approxilaately 40 percent in the 1970s, the terms of trade, which are
heavily influenced by movements in cotton prices, have continued to vary
considerably from year to year but have not improved during the 19808.
They increased rapidly from 1981 to 1984, fell precipitously in 1986, and
have since regained their previous level, vith the result that the tems of
trade in 1989 vere virtually the same as in 1981. 3/ Continued real
depreciation at the pace of the 1980s vould be required for almost another
decade to fully adjust to the sharp drop in Mali's external terms of trade
during the 19709. Such real depreciation vould enhance .Mali's long-term
growth and export prospects and reduce its need for external financing.
Balance of Paymen'.3
7.        Mali's external accounts have also improved significantly since
the mid-1980s. The current account deficit fell from a peak of 31.1
percent of GDP in 1985 to 13.5 percent of GDP in 1989. 41 Export
volumes have increased at an average annual rate of 4.8 percent during the
1980s and by 6.0 percent per annum since 1985.  Import volumes have
*ncreased at an average annual rate af 2.0 percent during the 1980s.
Capital inflows, largely official development assistance to finance the
public investment program, have lncreased steadily, and the balance of
payments recorded surpluses in both 1988 and 1989 after more than a decade
of consecutive deficits. As a result, Mali's deficit position vis-a-vis
the Operations Account vith the French Treasury uas eliminated in 198R and
a surplus of some CFAF 29.5 billion or US$103 million (approximately two
months imports) had been accumulated by December 31, 1989.
8.        Total public debt outstanding and disbursed (including IMF
purchases) exceeded 106 percent of GDP at end-1988. The debt service
ratio, excluding debt service to China and the USSR and before debt relief,
rose rapidly beginning in 1983, peaked at 30.9 percent in 1986, and has
31 The terms of trade index vas 101.5 ln 1989 (1981=100).
4/ The current account deficit peaked in 1985 largely as a result of
severe drought conditions. The three year moving average of the current
account deficit in 1985 uas 24.1 percent of GDP. Hence, the year to year
comparison tends to overstate the improvement in the current account
deficit.



- 4 -
subsequently declined slowly to 27.0 percent in 1989. 5/ As a result of
the rapid increase in scheduled debt service, Mali vas unable to fully
service its debt in the r :d-1980s and external arrears exceeded US$100
million at end-1987. These arrears vere totally cleared by end-1989,
primarily tIrough debt relief from Paris Club end other bilateral
creditors. Mali sought debt relief from the Paris Club for the first time
in October 1988, at which time Paris Club creditors provided debt relief,
on Toronto terms, totalling CFAF 4.0 billion (US$14 million) for 100
percent of arrears and eligible principal and interest obligations through
October 1989. Mali returned to the Paris Club in November 1989 and
obtained multi-year du t relief through 1991 on Toronto terms, as vell as
the rescheduling of arrears on short-term commercial debt and late interest
payments for five years vith a tvo year grace period. Total debt relief
obtained at the November 1989 meeting is estimated at CFAF 13.7 billion
(US$48 million).
B.   Government Economic Policies
9.        The Government of Mali launched a series of adjustment and
stabilization programs starting in 1982, under which measures vere
introduced to reduce budgetary deficits, public enterprise operating
losses, and public sector arreirs. In additioni, initial reforms--including
market liberalization and improved price incentives--vere i-troduced to
increase the e.ficiency of resource allocation. Regarding the sequencing
of reforms, fiscal and public enterprise issues vere addressed firat,
followed by financial sector and internal liberalization measures and,
finally, trade reform. Substantial progress was made in reducing economic
and financial imbalances until the pace of reform slowed noticeably in late
1986. In the absence oa adequate adjustment measures in 1987, the economic
and financial situation became increasingly difficult and a major crisis
developed. To redress the situation, the Government of Mali started
implementing in mid-1988 a medium-term adjustment program as defined in a
first Policy Framevork Paper (PFP) for 1988-90. The adjustment efforts
have been supported by three IDA adjustment credits in the public
enterprise, education and agricultural sectors, IMF stand-by and SAP
arrangements, and cofinancing in the context of the Special Program of
Assistance for debt-distressed low-income countries in sub-saharan Africa
(SPA).
Policy Framework Paper
10.       In November 1989, the Government prepared, vith the assistance
of IMF and Bank staffs, a second-year PFP for 1990-92. The threu key
objectives of the program are to attain an annual growth rate of real GDP
of about 4 percent in 1991 and 1992; to contain the annual rate of
inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, at about 3.0 percent; and to
5/ Moratoria on debt service to China and the USSR wp.e negotiated through
1989 and are expected to be continued.



- 5 -
reach a viable external sector position by 1992. 61 The program
emphasizes policies aimed at fostering an environment conducive to
promoting private sector activity, savings and investment, and
international competitiveness; lmproving public resource management,
including a strengthening of the public sector financial position; and
developing the human resource base and strengthening the management of
natural resources. To promote private sector activity the Goverrment is
committed to further liberalization of pricing and marketing policies as
well as streamlining of administrative procadures, including the
simplification of import and export procedures. In the agricultural
sector, the th-.ee key objectives are efficient growth and diversification
of agricultiaral production, increased food security, and improvement of
natural resource management, all of which are supported by the recently
approved IDA Agricultural Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit. With regard
to public resource management, the Government plans to revise and simplify
the tax system vith a view to enhancing its elasticity and improving
private sector incentives. In particular, import taxation will be
simplified and export taxation eliminated. On the expenditure side, the
Government ill improve the structure of current expenditures as well as
programming and budgetary control of public investments, and accelerate the
reform of the public enterprise sector supported by the IDA Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit.
i1.       The Government is currently implementing, with IDA assistance,
an eeucation sector program designed to raise literacy, currently only
about 15 percent, and improve the quality of education at all levels. In
the health sector, the Government is encouraging greater decentralization,
increased community responsibility, more private sector participation, and
expansion of services through improved cost recovery in the context of a
proposed IDA-financed project. With regard to population, a draft policy
statement has been prepared by an interministerial working group and vas
the subject of a national debate in July 1990. It aims to adapt population
grovth to the economy's develo;-ent potential; improve the health of the
population, particularly the mo t vulnerable groups; integrate ponulation
issues in development programs, and promote food security, protection of
the environment, human resource development and the role of vomen. While
still lacking operational specificity, the policy statement contains
quantitative objectives for raising the contraceptive prevalence rate from
1.2 percent to about 22 percent by the year 2000, and for reducing teenage
and overage pregnancies. The national debate, while supportive of the
policy, suggested that a considerable time lag and intensified family
planning services will be needed to attain the stated objectives. The
proposed IDA second health and population project will put in place the
operational means to attain the ambitious goals of the population policy
statement.
12.       Financial policies are designed to contribute to the achievement
of Mali's medium-term policy objectives. The Government aime at achieving
a sustainable overall fiscal position, settling its domestic payments
61 Real growth and inflation performance in recent years were even better
than the 1990-92 PFP targets due to exceptiGnal harvests and low food
prices.



arrears in 1990, and reducing its liabilities to the banking system. This
vill be complemented by a monetary policy emphasizing the prevision of
credit to the private sector by a reduction in Government borrowing from
the banking system, while maintaining the growth of domestic liquidity at a
rate consonant vith the targets for economic grov.h, inflation, and the
external sector. In particular, given Mali's exchange rate arrangements,
maintaining domestic inflation below that of its trading partners vill be
essential to improve international competitiveness and long-term grovwth
prospects. In view of Malils debt burden, the Government is pursuing a
prudent external debt management policy and vill contract or guarantee only
concessional loans, with the exception of normal short-term trade credits.
Adiustment Performance
13.       The structural measures for 1988 and 1989 outlined in the PFP
vere implemented largely as scheduled. The macroeconomic targets for 1988
and 1989 set out in the PFP for growth, inflation, and the balance of
payments vere all met. The second annual arrangement under the IMF SAF and
three IDA adjustment operations are currently ongoing. The Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAP) (Cr. 1937-MLI) vas approved by
the Board in June 1988, the hybrid Education Sector Consolidation Credit
(Cr. 2054-MLI) in June 1989, and the hybriu Agricultural Sector
Adjustment/Investment Credit (Cr. 2163-NLI) in June 1990.
14.       IMF Structural Adiustment Facility (SAF).  The Fund Board
approved the first annual arrangement under the SAF and a 14-month stand-by
arrangement in August 1988. All of the structural benchmarks under the
first-year SAF arrangement vere met on schedule, vith the exception of the
subsequently completed sale of buildings belonging to the liquidated state
trading agency Société Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation (SOMIEX).
After failure to meet the financial performance criteria under the stand-by
arrangement at end-September and end-December 1988, the Fund Board approved
in July 1989 an extension of the stand-by arrangement until June 1990. All
of the quarterly performance criteria under the stand-by have subsequently
been met and the last drawing was made in June 1990. In January 1990, the
Fund Board approved the second annual arrangement under the SAF. As of
August 1990 all of the structural and financial benchmark under the second
annual SAF arrangement have been met.
15.       Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP).  Mali's
first IDA-supported adjustment operation, the PESAP, vas designed to deal
with the public finance and financial sector crises induced by poor
performance in an over-extended public enterprise sector. The scale of the
public enterprise and financial sector probleis vere such as to require
resolution prior to addressing other sectoral or macro issues. As such,
the PESAP constitutes the first phase of Mali's program to improve its
public resource management and focuses on action in four areas: (a) reform
of key economic policies regarding public investment expenditure and
economic incentives, (b) financial sector reforms, including restructuring
the largest commercial bank, (c) institutional and legal reform of the
relations between government and public enterprises, and (d)
rationalization of the sector through restructuring and divestiture.
Progress in the implementation of these reforms has been satisfactory and
the second tranche of the crudit vas released and fully disbursed in



December 1989. With regard to key intersectoral economic reforms, the
agreed 1990-92 public investment program is being implemented
satisfactorily, and rrice liberalization has proceeded more rapidly than
originally planned. Regarding financial sector reforms, the largest and
formerly etate-owmed commercial bank (BDM) has been transformed into a
mixed-capital company vith independent private management and only 20
percent government shareholding, and the authorities have decided to
transfer postal checking services to a mixed-capital financial institution
subject to central bank supervision. The institutional and legal framework
governing relatàons betveen government and public enterprises has been
completely revised to increase public enterprise management autonomy and to
limit Government's rights and obligations in mlxed-capital companies to
those of ordinary shareholders. Finally, the restructuring and divestiture
program te proceeding more slowly then originally envisaged but
satisfactorily. The six enterprises remaining in the public sector are
being restructured -with the aid of bilateral donors, and the Government has
completed its divestiture of nineteen enterprises. The conditions for
release of the third tranche are expected to be met in early 1991.
16.       Education Sector Consolidation Credit.  The development of
Mali's human resource potential is of high priority if the country's long-
term growth possibilities are to be realized. The education sector
adjustment program cc,»lemente the IDA- and IMF-supported overall
structural adjustment progras  by reducing inefficiencies in the large
education sector, promoting the private financing of education, and better
preparing graduates for private sector employment and the needs of the
economy. Government expenditures on education are being refocussed towards
primary education, and the higher education subsector vill be restructured
In line with evolving laior market demand. The program alo ensures that
an adequate flow of opeL-ting and investment resources is directed tovards
this critical sector.
17.      Ahricultural Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit.  Given the
structure of the Malian economy, overall economic growth is contingent on
growth in the agricultural sector. Agricultural policy reforme agreed upon
In the context of the recently approved agricultural sector adjustment
operation aim at maintaining strong agricultural growth. The program's
specific objectives are (a) to improve the incentive system for the cotton
sector through both institutional and pricingltaxation reforms with the
objective of increasing efficiency and thus maintaining competitiveness in
international markets- (b) to consolidate and refine the cereals market
liberalization program in order to assure adequate supply and efficient
distribution of cereals in all areas of Mali; (c) to reform Rural
Development Organizations in order to provide better public services in
rural areas and to reduce the drain of these institutions on the public
budget; (d) to assure efficiency in the public investment program for the
agricultural sector; (e) to improve natural resource management; and (f) to
strengthen the impact of the policy reforms by financing agricultural
investment in southern Mali. Cotton and cereals sector reforms have
already been implemented, consistent with the performance contracts signed
between the Government and the cotton corporation and the cereals agency.



C.   Medium- and Long-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
18.       Mali's physical resource base is admittedly limited, yet it
provides more potential than other Sahelian countries because of its
relatively large areas suitable for rainfed agriculture and the irrigation
potential of the Niger river. In particular, per capita income growth of
1-2 percent per annum should be achievable, although its realization is
highly dependent on policy changes to effect major efficiency gains and, in
the long run, slower population growth. Assuming full implementation of
the reforms outlined in the PFP and jupported by this operation, and
continued imprevement in Malils International competitiveness (see para.
6). growth of 4.2 percent per annum is projected over the 1990-2000 period.
Agriculture, vtich accounts for roughly half of GDP and two-thirdF of
exports, vill continue to be the mainstay of the economy and further
increases in cotton, rice, maize and livestock production are both
technically and economically feasible. Average annual growth in the
agricultural sector of 4.2 percent is projected for 1990-2000. Mineral
resources are limited, but gold production has been a groving source of
export earnings and offers good potential for further expansion (13.2
percent annual growth during 1990-2000). Finally, although the small
domestic market offers limited prospects for further import substitution,
continued industrial growth linked to the agricultural sector (e.g.,
cotton, hides, edible oils) is expected as vell as some expansion of light
manufacturing for the regional market. Continued strong growth in the
construction industry is als expected. Overall industrial sector growth
of 5.3 percent per annum is projected for 1990-2000. Further growth in the
secondary sector vill depend on the extent of improvements in international
competitiveness and progress towards regional integration. Finally, growth
in trade and tourism is expected over the long-tenm. With regard to
growth, it is important to note that private sector activity already
accounts frr the overwhelming bulk of GDP and of past growth in GDP. It
vill continue to do so in the future, particularly since the private sector
share in total investment is projected to slowly increase.
19.       Under the PFP scenario, gross investment vould be maintained at
about 21 percent or GDP, with the share of private investments slowly
increasing in response to improvements in the policy environment. Domestic
savings vould remain positive. Government fiscal policy vould remain tight
increasing the current budget surplus from 2.3 percent of GDP in 1989 to
4.5 percent in 1993. The annual rate of inflation would be kept below 3
percent. The measures adopted vould contribute to an expansion and
diversification of exports and to a containnent of import growth, leading
to improvement in the trade balance. Despite higher oil prices, the
current account deficit is projected to decline to 12.1 percent of GDP by
1993, a level consonant with a viable balance of payments position. 7/
Even though domestic savings are expected to rise, Mali vill remain heavily
dependent on external financial assistance for implementation of its
7/ The projected current account deficit is judged to be viable based on
the assumption that aid flows, excluding exceptional balance of payments
and budget assistance, will continue to grow in nominal terns, at about 6
percent per annum, i.e., roughly in line vith nominal GDP growth in the G-S
countries.



development program for many years to come. To maintain gross investment
at an average 21 percent of GDP over 1990-93, over 90 percent of public
investment expenditures are expected to be financed by foreign dcnors.
Total external financing requirements for 1990-93 are thus estimated to be
on the order of US$2.0 billion (see Table 1). The current account. deficit,
excluding grants, represents 76 percent of this financing requirement, debt
amortization 11 percent (including IMF repurchases), and the build-up of
reserves 13 percent.  Disbursements from already identified grants and
loans, including IMF resources, are projected to provide about 90 percent
of the required external financing. The remaining gap vill need to be
financed by additional IMF resources, bilateral debt relief, and new quick-
disbursing non-project aid, including IDA adjustment lending. In total,
approximately US$400 million of quick disbursing assistance are required
for the 1990-93 period. The proposed credit would provide 18 percent of
this atount. Debt relief and existing commitments cover an additional 53
percent. The remaining 29 percent is expected to be covered by additional
IMF resources and new SPA cofinancing.
Table 1: MALI: EXTERNAL FINANCINO REqUIRENENTS (USS eillions)
1989   1990   1991   199    1998
FINANCINO RERUIREMENT
Current Account (oxcluding grant.)  280.9  385.2  884.3  400.0  895.8
of which: intereet paymonts    (28.4)  (84.7)  (88.1)  (40.8)  (41.8)
Amortigetion                       87.9   8S.8   40.0   4S.1   4S.1
IUF Ropurchases                    24.6   21.0   11.4    7.2    9.C
Change in arroars (incroste -)     60.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Change In rosorves (docrouose -) ()    108.3  104.8   89.7 t 4.0   28.1
Other (b)                           4.9  -10.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                             601.8  604.1  626.4  50s.8  478.0
IDENTIFIED RESWRCES
crante                          208.1  256.0  250.S  242.4  252.9
êf uhlch: acdjustnt           (27.1)  (89.0)  (17.6)    0.0    0.0
PubIle Loane                    201.6  201.0  187.0  181.2  18 .2
of which: IDA                 (48.7)  (47.6)  (66.2)  (56.6)  (26.2)
odjuatetnt lendlng    (99.1)  (61.1)  (40.0)   (6.7)    0.0
Private capltal (net)           15.0    6.6    2.7    3.9    8.6
IUF Resources                    6.6   27.6    0.0    0.0    0.0
of ,hich: SAF/ESAF             (0.0)  (20.7)
TOTAL                             429.2  491.2  440.8  427.6  444.t
FINANCINO GAP BEFORE RESCHEDWUNG     72.6   12.9   85.1   78.0   28.2
D.bt Relief                        72.4   12.9    7.1    0.0    0.0
RESIDUAL FINANCINO GW                 0.2    0.0   78.0   78.8   28.2
(a) Excluding the change In th. net pooltion vis-a-vit the 11F
(b) Includlng errore and olIsslons
In the longer run (2000), investment is projected to increase to about 22
percent of GDP, vith private investment increasing to about 60 percent of
total investment.  Domestic savings are projected increase to about 9
percent of GDP. The current account deficit would fall to about 10 of GDP
and be fully financed by long-term capital flows. Assuming that these
flows take the form of grants and highly concessional loans, Malits debt



- 10 -
service ie projected to decline to about 15 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services.
D.   Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
Key Issues
20.       Given the above assessment, cJuntry economic policy to foster
growth vith equity, which i the key to poverty alleviation, should focus
on three broad areast (a) rationalizing incentives for private sector
growth, (b) improving public resource management to reduce the fiscal
deficit while assuring the efficient provision of essential public
services, and (c) alleviating long-term resource constraints through
strengthening the human resource base and natural resource management.
21.       Economic Incentives.  As noted above, private sector activity
accounts for most of GDP and past growth   Irrespective of progress in
alleviating long-term constraints and improving public sector efficiency,
policies fostering further private sector growth will be the key
determinant of futu>re growth. Such policies--including financial sector
and fiscal reform, further price and trade liberalization, and a
simplificationlreduction of government regulation--should focus on (a)
eliminating the numerous administrative obstacles to private sector
activity, (b) establishing a more neutral incentive structure that
generally reflects the opportunity cost of resources to the economy and not
on establishing special incentives for particular activities or sectors,
and <c) strengthening the support institutions, both private and public,
lwhich provide financial, technical and other services to individuals and
private firms, including the informal sector. Considerable progress has
already been made lu these areas. In particular, most price controls have
been removed, quantitative restrictions on imports have been replaced by
tariff protection, cereals marketing has been fully liberalized, and cotton
sector reforms are under implementation.
22.       Public Resource Management.  Improvements in the efficiency with
which public resources are mobilized and public services are delivered
vill, in turn, be an important determinant of the responsiveness of
economic operators to an improved incentive structure. Pirst, inefficient
resource mobilization and reliance on the banking sector to finance chronic
public enterprise losses have crowded out private activity (particularly in
the credit market). Secondly, vithout essential public services--primary
education, basic health care, adequately maintained roads, effective
researchlextension services, adequate power supplies--the short and medium-
term supply response vill be jeopardized. Moreover, to the extent that the
cost of providing such services can be reduced, additional resources will
be freed for private consumption and investment. This implies a sustained
effort to strengthen public institutions and a major restructuring of
government current and investment expenditure. Public expenditure should
focus on the provision of public services and essential Infrastructure in
direct support of the productive sectors and on increased efficiency in the
provision of these services. Major improvements have already been realized
with regard to public enterprise management, preparation of the public
investment program, and consolidation of the budget. Restructuring current
expenditure, particularly increasing the efficiency of the civil service



- il -
while reducing its size and the total vage bill, remains a key issue where
action is required both to restore fiscal stability and to increase
efficiency in the provision of agriculture extension, primary aducation and
basic health services.
23.       Institutional issues constitute a particularly acute problem
with regard to improved public resource management and long-term
development. Although some progress has been made in specific sectors or
institutions, a major strengthening of public institutions at all levels is
required. Despite its past interventionest role, the public sector is veak
and only partially accouatable for its actions. This is reflected in
increasing public criticism of the lack of transparency in some public
transactions, as well as poor audit and procurement performance in some IDA
operations. Videspread debate of the need for greater accountability for
public officials and government efforts at decentralization are encouraging
in this regard. Institutional strengthening remains, however, a major
development issue for the long-term.
24.       Long-term Constraints.  In addition to improving the provision
of public services directly supporting productive activity, improved public
resource management implies an increase in resources allocated to
alleviating long-term physical and human resource constraints.
Agricultural research, sound natural resource management, primary
education, basic health care and adequate infrastructure will be essential
for increasing the long-run supply response necessary for a sustained
increase in per capita income. Action on the above-mentioned fronts should
make increases in per capita income possible through faster GDP growth.
Even faster growth of per capita income vould require greater regional
economic integration to facilitate factor mobility and trade within the
region. Moreover, the long-run sustainability of per capita income growth
vill be highly dependent on the rate of population growth. The resources
available for basic health and education services (i.e., human capital
investments) will be increasingly strained by population growth approaching
3 percent per annum.
Operational Objectives
25.       The overriding goal of Bank assistance to Mali is to achieve
sustainable growth, with equity, in per capita income. Given the current
low level of income and the structure of the economy, equity concerns are
entirely consistent with the growth objective since production growth
encouraging the efficient use of labor, rather than income redistribution,
is the key to reducing poverty. Although a large variety of actions could
conceivably contribute to this goal, limited staff and IDA resources make
it essential that Bank assistance focus on the most important actions
needed to accelerate positive per capita income growth.
26.       The preceding analysis has shown that Mali's economic
performance has been mixed. The interaction of population growth with the
limited natural resource base has undoubtedly contributed to the slow
growth of per capita incomes, yet there is little indication that the
relatively high level of development expenditures has eased long-tern
growth constraints.   Moreover, the associated heavy level of foreign
borroving, albeit at highly concessional terms, has produced a debt service



- 12 -
burden that threatens future investment levels. The major conclusion to be
drawn from this experience is that Mali's growth prospects depend more on
an improvement in the efficiency with which resources, whether domestic or
foreign, are used than on an increase in the level of resources available
to the economy. This has major implications for the Bank's assistance
strategy. In particular, since IDA lending represents less than 15 percent
of ODA flows, staff resources vill be programmed to have the maximum impact
on sectoral resource use rather than individual projects.
27.       The criteria for setting Bank operational priorities will be the
scale of direct impact on productive sectors, the contribution to improved
sectoral or global public resource management, and the effect on long-term
constraints, particularly human resource development. Bank strategy thus
embodies three broad operational objectives, namely to (a) support
institutional and incentive policy reforms aimed at promoting efficient
production growth, (b) support budgetary reforms, improved investment
programming, and sectoral reforms designed to increase the efficiency of
public resource use, and (c) alleviate constraints to long-tenm growth
through human resource development, natural resource management and
improved infrastructure. Implementation of this strategy emphasizes the
Bank's program objectives of poverty alleviation via economic growth with
equity; structural and sectoral adjustment aimed at improved public sector
management and private sector incentives; food security through increased
food production, better functioning domestic markets and more efficient use
of food aid; natural resource management with emphasis on local
responsibility; human resource development with particular emphasis on
vomen; and improved infrastructure.
Proposed Lending Program
28.       Realization of the growth objectives requires IDA support for a
series of operations supporting economic policy reforms and investments to
relieve long-term constraints. Key determinants of the level of IDA
lending will be continued strong adjustment performance and progress in
resolving institutional issues that adversely effect project
implementation. The proposed IDA lending program for Mali assumes
continued adjustment at the pace established over the past two years and
slow but steady progress on institutional strengthening. Excellent
performance on the policy front combined with rapid resolution of project
implementation issues would justify an increase in the Mali lending
program. This would take the form of accelerated processing of proposed
operations, increased lending for private sector development and financial
sector reform, and increased allocations for other operations. Conversely,
a deterioration in Mali's adjustment performance would lead to a reduction
in IDA lending. If the Government's commitment to implementation of an
adjustment program wanes, preparation of both quick-disbursing and
investment operations would be delayed and lending would be reduced
accorcingly. At the extreme, IDA lending would be restricted to a core
program of investment projects, which could proceed to the extent that they
could be isolated from the deteriorating policy environment implied in a
non-adjustment scenario. A shift to this non-adjustment scenario would be
triggered by a failure to agree with the Bank and Fund on annual updates of
the macroeconomic program, particularly fiscal and monetary policies. Such
an agreement would normally be reflected in an updated PFP. Specific



- 13 -
targets for the current fiscal deficit, the structure of current
expenditure, the overall investment program, and credit growth vould
constitute key criteria for agreement on a PFP.
29.       IDA lending to Mali totalled US$201 million in FY88-90, of which
US$133 million vas for project lending and US$68 million for quick-
disbursing support of Mali's adjustment efforts. 8/ Project
implementation has been mixed. Some projects have been well-executed and
very successful, while others have failed or encountered long delays caused
largely by institutional weaknesses of executing agencies. As Mali's
relatively strong adjustment performance reduces the severe fiscal and
external imbalances of the early 19808, the Bank vill devote increased
attention to institutional issues in order to ensure that the full benefits
of the adjustment efforts are realized. Poor performance in this area has
already led to suspending disbursements under one IDA credit.
Disbursements under the Fifth Highways Project (Cr 1629-MLI) vere suspended
on May 1, 1990, in view of continued non-compliance with several Credit
Agreement covenants. Considerable progrees has subsequently been made in
complying with some of the concerned covenants. The suspension is due to
project-specific problems related to veak transport and infrastructure
sector institutions. As such, it should have no direct adverse impact on
implementation of the program supported by the proposed credit. It does,
however, reflect the weak institutional base which is one of the key
constraints affecting long-term growth in Mali and, hence, all IDA
operations.
30.       The indicative IDA lending program for Mali for FY91-93 amounts
to approximately US$250 million. Given the financing requirements
summarized in paragraph 19 and the expected composition of ODA from other
sources, approximately US$155 million of this amount is tentatively
allocated for project or sector investment financing and approximately
US$95 million for quick-disbursing lending. Both investment and quick-
disbursing operations vill focus on key policy issues affecting poverty
alleviation, namely future growth, investment strategy, and institutional
development. Sectoral operations would be designed to increase the supply
response to changes in the macroeconomic framework, strengthen sectoral
institutions, and improve the utilization of public resources devoted to
the respective sectors, particularly the large amounts of non-IDA external
financing.  The overall IDA allocation and the breakdown between investment
and quick-disbursing financing will be reviewed periodically to take into
account Mali's adjustment performance, its project implementation
performance, the progress realized in reducing external imbalances, and the
availability and composition of other external financing.
31.        Human Resource Development.  Mali's long-term growth prospects
ultimately depend on the full realization of its human resource potential.
IDA assistance will focus on reversing the trend of increasing population
growth and improving the capacity of the social sectors to deliver basic
education and health services. The proposed second health/population
proje:t (FY91) vould be designed to improve productivity and cost recovery
8/  The Mali Country Brief provides a description of past IDA lending to
Mali. Summary data on active IDA credits is provided in Annez V.



- 14 -
in the health sector and to address the issue of population growth. In
addition, a follow-up operation to the ongoing hybrid Education Sector
Consolidation operation is planned for FY93. Each of these operations has
significant components aimed at promoting women's statue and their fuller
participation in the country's development.  In the shorter term, efficient
employment generation would be supported through a proposed public vorks
employment project (FY92R)
32.       Natural Resource Management.  Land degradation is the single
Mest serious environmental problem in Mali. There is an urgent need to
improve land and natural resource management. The proposed natural
resource management project (FY92) vould aim to increase the capacity of
local communities to manage their own resources through technical support
and investment in soil and water conservation, agro-forestry and fodder
crop improvement, improved security of access to land and natural
resourtes, training and support of local organizations, and streamlining
national institutions working on land management. In addition, the
proposed operation vould support development of an ecological monitoring
system and improved management of national parks and other protected areas.
33.       Productive Sectors.  IDA assistance in support of the productive
sectors will focus on the enabling environment for private sector activity
ln agriculture and industry through policy reforms, institutional
development in relevant public sector agencies, and focussed and efficient
development of social and physical infrastructure. In line with the agenda
set out in the PFP, the proposed first SAL would address the incentive
issue through trade policy rationalization, further price libetalization,
and tax reform, thus deepening the incentive reforme already undertaken
under the PESAP and the hybrid Agriculture Sector Adjustment/Investment
Credit. The proposed agricultural services project (FY91) aims at
increasing long-term productivity and diversification of agricultural
production through the strengthening of national institutions providing key
services, such as extension.   Similarly, the proposed private sector
development project (FY92) would provide financial and technical assistance
as well as training to help promote the development of Mali's industrial
sector and etrengthen sectoral institutions. The efficient development of
Mali's vast irrigation potential remains a priority and support to improve
the incentive framework for private irrigation, rehabilitate existing
achemes, and increase the efficiency of existing irrigation facilities is
to be provided through a proposed irrigation sector credit (FY94S).
Infrastructure lending in support of the productive sectors will focus on
institution building; improved sector management, including a larger role
for the private sector; and greater attention to maintenance through a
proposed hybrid adjustment/investment infrastructure/transport sector
operation (FY93).
34.       Public Resource Management.  As indicated above, improved public
resource management will be essential for effective IDA lending in each of
the above areps. The proposed SAL would address the public resource
management issue through restructuring recurrent expenditure, civil service
reform, strengthening investment programming, and reinforcing budgetary
procedures, thus complementing the sectoral initiatives undertaken in
ongoing and proposed operations.



- IS -
IFC
35.       Mall, as most of sub-saharan Africa, offers comparatively few
opportunities for the relatively large projectu that IFC normally supports.
More recently, IFC has, hovever, launched a number of initiatives to
supplement its regular investment activities in Africa. IFC's strategy in
Mali vill be to support the development of small- and medium-size
enterprises. The vehicles for IFC's assistance to these enterprises vill
be the African Proiect Development Pacility <APDF) and the African
Enterprise Fund (AEF). In addition, IFC vill examine the possibility for
support to private gold-mining activities. Finally, IFC vill explore ways
to help the Government in the practical task of privatization through
advisory services and assistance in the search for partners and financing.
Collaboration vith the IMF and Donors
36.       The proposed SAL vould reinforce Mali's overall program of
structural reform supported by the IMF, IDA and other donors. It has been
developed in conjunction vith IMF staff and is based on the 1990-92 PFP.
Hali's second annual SAF arrangement for SDR 15.2 million vas approved by
the IMF Board in January 1990.  The Bank will continue to vork closely vith
the IMF in providing policy recommendations to maintain macroeconomic
stability and to ensure consistency in policy reforms.
37.       Mali's overall adjustment program has been supported by several
bilateral and multilateral donors.  The PESAP is cofinanced by Japan, the
African Development Fund, the Saudi Fund, the Netherlands, and Belgium.
Tihe education sector adjustment program is cofinanced by the U.S., France,
Norway and Canada. The agriculture sector operation is cofinanced by
France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
In addition, France has provided budget support as vell as parallel
financing for the banking sector restructuring supported by the PESAP.
Bilateral donors have, under the SPA, improved the coordination of their
assistance through cofinancing and parallel financing in support of Mali's
adjustment efforts.  Non-project funding has also been forthcoming from the
HEC, the Netherlands, Germany, the U.S., Belgium, Canada, and the OPEC
Fund.
38.       Given the importance of foreign assistance in Mali and the large
number of interested donors, aid coordination efforts vill continue to
receive high priority. Aid coordination vill focus on reaching agreement
vith the donors on the content of policy reform programs and establishment
of clear priorities for public investment programs, as vell as on building
a confi:nsus for addressing long-term issues. Three principal mechanisms
vill be used to assure close coordination among donorss informal donor
meetings, organized around specific sector or macroeconomic operations;
bi-annual SPA meetings for sharing information on adjustment performance
and quick disbursing cofinancing requirements; and continued close contact
by the Resident Mission and visiting Bank missions vith local donor
representatives.



- 16 -
Summary Assessment
39.       Mali has demonstrated strong and sustained adjustment
performance since the beginning of 1988. These efforts have been reflected
in considerable improvement in Mali's fisial and external positions.
Growth has also been strong, but this is due to improved climatic
conditions as vell as to improved economic policies. Nonetheless, the
country's economic and financial situation remains fragile and could
deteriorate rapidly if current reform efforts are not maintained. The
proposed SAL aims at deepening the recent reforms and thus laying the basis
for sustained future growth.
II. SAL I PROGRAM 1990-92
40.       The measures taken under the IDA- and IMF-supported adjustment
operations have led to significant improvements in the economie incentives
system and the efficiency in the use of public resources. Important
distortions and rigidities persist, however. Remaining distortions in the
trade and tax regimes, price controls, and rigidities ln the labor market
currently discourage efficient private sector activity. Moreover, despite
consolidated government expenditure exceeding 25 percent of GDP, the
Government has not been able to provide the essential public services and
basic infrastructure necessary for long-term economic growth and an
improvement in Mali's standard of living.
41.       The adjustment package proposed under SAL I consists of
fundamental policy reforms in two areas to address these problems. First,
SAL I would support the improvement of the economic incentives system
through a simplification and rationalization of foreign trade taxation, a
restructuring of domestic indirect and direct taxation, and changes in the
regulatory framework governing commercial and industrial activity and the
labor market. Second, it would support improvement in the management of
public resources through the restructuring of current expenditures, civil
service reform, and better programming and monitoring of public investment
expenditures. These reforms vould both increase the prospects for economic
growth with equity, and assure increased resources for the delivery of
basic public services, particularly to the poorer parts of the population.
In addition, SAL I vould support the government's efforts to monitor the
change in social indicators of development over the reform period through
v      regular implementation and ar,lysis of household surveys.
A.   Macroeconomic Framework
42.       The reforms undertaken under SAL I are an integral part of the
Government's overall adjustment program, as outlined in the medium-term PFP
for 1990-92 which vas reviewed by the Committee of the Whole on January 9,
1990. Implementation of the structural measures proposed under the SAL
vill be key to meeting the macroeconom4c targets, and maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic framework will be essential for achieving the
growth objectives of the SAL. Hence maintenance of appropriate
macroeconomic policies is a condition for release of the second and third
tranches of the proposed credit. The macroeconomic objectives regarding
growth, inflation, and the balance of payments are summarized in paragraphs



- 17 -
18 and 19 of the present report. The review of the macroeconomic framework
for second and third tranche release vill examine the consistency of
overall macroeconomic performance vith the EFP objectives, particularly
fiscal and monetary policies. In this regard, the authorities intend to
maintain total government receipts at, at least, 16.6 percent of GDP and to
reduce current expenditures (including the annexed budgets and special
funds) to 13.9 percent of GDP in 1990 and to 12.5 percent of GDP by 1992.
Vith regard to monetary policy, the authorities intend to keep the growth
of domestic liquidity below that of nominal GDP. This should contain
annual inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, to below 3.0 percent
during 1990-92. The macroeconomic projections and requisite policies vill
continue to be revised annually, in the context of annual updating of the
PFP, in order to take into account both the progress achieved in reducing
imbalances and the availability of financing.
B.   Incentives for Private Sector Development
43.       Private sector activity in Kali accounts for by far the largest
share of GDP and past growth. Irrespective of progrese in improving public
resource efficiency, the key determinant of future growth resides in
policIes fostering further private sector growth. The macro policies
pursued are designed to improve international competitiveness by keeping
inflation below that of Mali's trading partners. The proposed structural
measures vill increase flexibility and responsiveness of the private
sector, enabling competitiveness to be increased through adjustment in the
cost of factors of production. Such policies include trade and tax reform
as veli as a simplification/reduction of government regulation. SAL I
vould focus on eliminating the numerous administrative obstacles to private
sector activity, and establishing a more neutral incentive structure
reflecting the opportunity coet of resources to the economy. The proposed
reforme are consistent with reforme being undertaken in several other CEAO
countries and vill be pursued in the context of discussions with CEAO on
trade reforms and increased regional integration.
Trade Reform
44.       Background.  The incentive structure in Mali is biased against
exports by the direct taxation of exports and by the protection granted
against imports. Export taxes are levied on most goode, but generate less
than two percent of government revenue. The taxation of importe is
excessively complex and characterized by a large number of tax instruments,
a cumbersome administrative valuation system, and a great disparity of
tariff rates. As a result, the level of total taxation on imports ranges
from 0 to about 200 percent. This structure of protection impairs
competition, provides a poverful Licentive for inefficient import
substitution industries, and directs resources to activities which may not
correspond to Mali's comparative advantage. The relatively high rates and
complexity of the current system both encourage fraud and necessitate a
large number of exemptions.
45.       Past Adjustment Efforts.  All remaining 2xport monopolies vere
abolished in 1986. Import monopolies, with the exception of tobacco and
pharmaceutical products, vere abolished in 1988. quantitative restrictions
on ten products, accounting for about 40 percent of imports, vere



- 18 -
eliminated in 1988. In 1989, the Government introduced the requirement for
preshipment verification of importe by the Société Générale de Surveillance
(SGS) in order to reduce fraud associated vith under-invoicing and
misclassification of importe. At the same time, ad hoc exemptions were
reduced. A one-stop window vas established for all administrative
procedures regarding importing and exporting.
46.       SAL-Supported Reform Propram.  The GoverAient intends to
rationalize the existing system of trade taxation further and to simplify
the administrative procedures for export and import operations vith a view
to minimizing their distortionary effects and promoting exporte. In
particular, the proposed reforme aim at providing a more neutral incentive
structure for different econom:4c activities.  The immediate objectives are
to eliminate quantitative restrictions on trade, reduce the disparity in
nominal and effective protection acrose activities, and transform the
consolidated import tas into a single and transparent instrument of
protection.  The reform focuses on abolishing export taxes and quantitative
restrictions and on simplifying import taxation by consolidating existing
taxes and reducing the number and disparity of tariffs. Mali is a member
of the CEAO and the SAL-supported reforms are consistent vith CEAO regional
reforme currently under discussion. The overall reform program is designed
to be revenue neutral. In the medium-term. additional revenue requirements
vould be met through other taxes, in particular the value-added tax, that
vould avoid the adverse effect of trade taxation on exports.
47.       All remaining quantitative restrictions vere effectively
abolished in April 1990 and import licensing vas replaced by an automatic
registration system effective January 1, 1990. All remaining export taxes
vere abolished in November 1990. Vith regard to import taxation, the
Council of Ministers approved on September 12, 1990, a reform package
consolidating existing taxes and reducing the number and disparity of
tariff rates. effective January 1, 1991. The effective application of this
reform package will be a condition for second tranche release. The average
level of nominal protection is maintained at about 25 percent while
reducing significantly the disparity in the rates of protection compared to
the existing regime. Four special earmarked import taxes 9/ have been
abolished or incorporated into the fiscal import tax (DFI), and the DFI
rate structure, currently comprising 27 different rates, has been
simplified into an 'ordinary x.te* of 35 percent, a 'reduced rate' of 10
percent, and a zero rate for exempted producte. In addition, a special
digressive protection tax (TDP), with a maximum rate of 40 percent, vill be
applied to 18 locally produced goode; its rate will decline by 10 percent
annually so that all products revert to the ordinary rate after four years.
Excise taxes (ISCP) will be levied on 8 additional producte. A variable
tas (TCI) aimed at reducing the effect of short-term international price
fluctuation on domestic producer prices vill be applied to importe of rice
and sugar. All specific taxes have been replaced vith ad valorem tariffs
and taxation based on administrative values (valeurs mercuriales, valeurs
barèmes) has been replaced by taxation based on actual CIF values for all
but petroleum producte. To further simplify the administrative process
91 Mining Fund Tax, Petrostock Tas, OSRP Tax, and the Petroleum Tas.



- 19 -
regarding importing and exporting, revised procedures for the one-stop
vindow were put ln place on October 1, 1990.
Tex Reform
48.       Background.  Despite high tax rates, overall fiscal pressure in
Mali is relatively low. This can be attributed, in part, to the small
formal sector tax base, but also to an overly complex tax system that leads
to widespread fraud and evasion, and inadequate application of tax lavs due
to administrative insufficiencies. Because of the frequent exemptions as
vell as the large number of taxes and tax rates, different activities and
sources of income are not treated uniformly, thus distorting the incentives
for private sector growth. Most revenues are currently derived from
indirect taxes, of which the tas on goods and services (IAS) is the most
important. The IAS developed from the traditional French production tax
and is levied on both imports and domestic transactions, but not on all
sectors of the economy and is highly differentiated. It has elements of a
cascading tax and vith regard to exported goods, does not provide for the
rebate of taxes paid at intermediate stages. The system of direct taxation
is biased against certain types of enterprises and high marginal rates of
profit taxation discourage production growth. With six different income
taxes generating only about 14 percent of fiscal revenue, the
administration of direct taxes is both difficult and inefficient.
49.       Past Adiustment Efforts.  In 1986, the payroll tax vas reduced
from 15 percent to 7.5 percent and the top business income tas rate reduced
from 50 percent to 45 percent for corporations and from 30 percent to 25
percent for individuals in an effort to improve medium-term private sector
incentives. In addition, the IAS rates on imports and domestic production
vere unified. In 1989, the Governnent took a number of administrative
measures relating to taxes. These measures included making eight newly
created collection centers in the Bamako district fully operationai;
improving the system for monitoring tax obligations and payments; stepping
up the collection of delinquent tax obligations; and improving the coverage
and collection of property taxes.
50.       SAL-Supported Reform Program.  The Goverument intends to revise
and simplify the existing structure of taxation, vith a view to enhancing
the elasticity of the tax system and further improving private sector
incentives. Vith regard to indirect taxation, the government vill replace
the IAS by a value-added tas (VAT) effective January 1, 1991, in order to
eliminate the cascading effect and to remove the bias against exports. The
replacement of the IAS by a VAT vill be a condition for second tranche
release.
51.       With regard to direct tarition, the Government intends to
complete a study during 1991 to provide the basis for the replacement of
the current schedular income tax vith a unita:y tax on personal income and
a unitary company profits tax in 1992. Agreement on income and profit tax
reforms, including a detailed implementation schedule, vill be a condition
for third tranche release. The Government vill also review its policy of
taxation and regulation of the petroleum sector. In particular, a study
vith a view to introducing a substantial simplification of the present tas
and pricing structure is underway. On the basis of this study, a detailed



- 20 -
implementation schedule for petroleum taxation/pricing reforma is ta be
agreed upon by March 1, 1991. A study of taxation of the informal sector
vill also be initiated by March 1, 1992.
Reaulatory Reforms
52.       Background.  Numerous administrative obstacles have in the past
inhibited private sector activity in Mali. In particular, prices of most
important products vere controlled, formalities to establish private
enterprises have been overly complex, and labor market regulations have
severely restricted hiring and firing decisions by enterprises. The
overall regulatory framework has militated against efficient growth and
employment creation.
53.       Past Adjustment Efforts.  Since 1988, the Government has taken
major steps towards relaxing price controls by reducing the number of goods
and services subjee't to fixed price ceilings and preset profit margins from
58 to 10, as foreseen under the PESAP. The government has also taken steps
to free the entry of private firms into existing markets.  A new Commercial
Code vas promulgated in 1986 which simplifies procedures for operating
private firms and removes the requirement of prior government approval for
establishing private businesses. A reform of the Investment Code in 1986
aimed at attracting foreign and domestic private investors to new
industrial ventures over the medium term. To simplify the formalities
pertaining to the establishment of enterprises, the Government has recently
set up sectoral one-stop windows (guichet unique) for establishing private
businesses. With regard to the labor market, a study is underway to
analyze its functioning and to prepare reform proposals regarding labor
market regulation vith a view to promoting employment creation and greater
labor mobility.
54.       SAL-Supported Reform Program.   The Government of Mali is
commdtted to a general liberalization of pricing and marketing policies, as
vell as to a streamlining of administrative procedures, vith a view to
enhancing the efficiency oe resource allocation and stimulating economic
activity. As part of PFPISAL preparation, all price controls vere removed
on December 31, 1989, except for margin controls on pharmaceutical
product-, petroleum products, urban passenger transport rates, and
international freight transport rates. The Governaent intends to remove
the remaining margin controls, vith the exception of those on petroleum
products, by January 1, 1991. This vill be a condition for second tranche
release of the proposed credit. As indicated above, a study vill be
undertaken to examine price and taxation reforms in the petroleum sector.
55.       In order to further enhance the investment climate and
employment creation, the Governaent is amending existing labor legislation,
vith the objective of reducing labor market rigidities, and in particular
simplifying procedures for hiring and firing. The Government abolished the
hiring monopoly of the Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre et de l'Emploi
(ONMOE) in October 1990 and a proposal for the restructuring of the ONMOE
is under preparation. A proposed revision of the Labor Code, increasing
the flexibility of hiring and firing procedures, is also under preparation
and vill be adopted by January 1, 1991. Implementation of labor code
revisions is a condition of second tranche release of the proposed credit.



- 21 -
By January 1, 1992, the Goverument vill assess the revised Labor Code vith
a view to identifying further improvements.
56.       Regulatory procedures vill be streamlined in several ways.  The
Government vill assess the impact of the 1986 revision of the Commercial
Code, and vill adopt before January 1, 1991, revisions to further simplify
regulation of private firms. By March 1, 1991, the commercial courts viii
be made fully operational. The authorities have initiated a review of the
Investment Code, with the assistance of the Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (FIAS) of the IFC and MIGA, and intend to prepare a revised Code by
January 1, 1991. taking into account the proposed tariff and tax reforms.
In particular, the general exemption of import duties vould no longer be
granted and existing exemptions progressively eliminated. Administrative
procedures related to the creation of private enterprises vill be further
simplified, and the operation of the newly created sectoral one-stop
windows vill be monitored closely to assure the rapid processing of
requests, which vill othervise be considered automatically approved 30 days
following submission.
C.   Public Resource Management
57.       Improvements in the efficiency vith which public resources are
spent vill be an important determinant of the responsiveness of economic
operators to an improved incentive structure. The ongoing PESAP
constitutes the first phase of the Government's program to improve the
utilization of public resources by substantially reducing the burden of
this sector on public finances. Rationalization of public resource use in
the education sector is an important componertc of the ongoing IDA education
sector operation. The next important steps vill be the elimination of
remaining domestic arrears in 1990, the restructuring of current
expenditures, reform of the civil service, and strengthening public
investment programming and monitoring.
Restructuring of Current Expenditures
58.       Background.  The existing composition of recurrent expenditures
does not provide adequate allocations for non-wage operation and
maintenance expenditure. This is largely the result of a civil service
wage bill that absorbs some two-thirds of budgetary revenue. Allocations
for primary education, basic health care, and infrastructure maintenance
are inadequate and jeopardize the long-run supply response necessary for a
sustained increase in per capita income. Monitoring of Government current
expenditures has, moreover, been constrained by the existence of a number
of annexed budgets and special funds, not fully integrated in the general
government budget.
59.       Past Adiustment Efforts.  The share of the vage bill in current
budgetary expenditures has declined from 63.4 percent in 1987 to 60.4
percent in 1989. Vith a view to containing personnel expenditures in 1989,
merit increases vere frozen, no cost of living adjustments vere granted,
and gross hiring vas limited to 250 persons.  Moreover, with financing from
USAID, the Government implemented a voluntary departure program under which
643 persons left the civil service ln 1987-89. The Government thus
maintained the 1989 vage bill at about its nominal 1988 level. With regard



- 22 -
to other current expenditures, in 1989 the Government reduced expenditure
on student stipends, while increasing the share of expenditures on
materials and supplies. With regard to sectoral current budget
allocations, agreement has been reached under the Education Consolidation
Credit on the structure of expenditure for the education sector in the
1990-92 period. The annexed budgets and special funds retain their
autonomy but have, since 1988, been integrated in the overall budget
presentation. This has facilitated presentation of a consolidated budget,
but has not addressed the underlying problema of earmarked revenues,
inadequate scrutiny of some special fund expenditure, and the imbalance in
some special funds between actual revenue and required expenditure.
60.       SAL-Supported Reform Program. The reform program aims at
eliminating during 1990 the Government's remaining identified and verified
domestic arrears as of end-1989 and improving the structure of current
expenditure to provide adequate allocations for non-wage operating and
maintenance expenditures, as vell as for essential public services. To
achieve this objective, the Government vill reduce the relative size of the
vage bill in current Government expenditures; increase the share of current
expenditure on materials and supplies; and assure adequate allocations for
the social sectors, as well as routine road maintenance. Moreover, to
assure that all expenditures are subject to the same budgetary scrutiny and
to improve monitoring of current expenditure, the folloving annexed budgets
and special funds vill be fully integrated into the 1991 budget: Road
Fund, Mining Fund, Forestry Fund, Tourism Fund and the budgets of the
National Transport Office and the debt service agency (CAA).
61.       The key element for restructuring current expenditures is a
reduction in the relative size of the vage bill. The Government's ultimate
goal is to create a smaller but more efficient civil service with
performance-based remuneration (see para. 62ff). The Government has
therefore decided to place a ceiling of CFAP 40.0 billion on the nominal
vage bill during 1990-92. This vill reduce the budget share of the vage
bill from 60.4 percent in 1989 to 57.0 percent by 1992 (see Table 2). The
freeze on the overall vage bill vill be achieved through the expansion of
the voluntary departure program, limiting gross recruitment, strengthening
personnel management, and an overhaul of the pay system. As agreed during
the PFPISAL preappraisal mission, the Government eliainated salary arrears
by end-March 1990. 10/ This provides a major incentive to civil
servants to improve performance, despite the fact that no automatic merit
increases or cost of living adjustments vill be provided in 1990, unlesa
other offsetting measures are put into place. Any future salary adjustment
vill depend on a change in the size of the civil service and in related
expenditure. In order to better monitor personnel expenditures, the
Government has computerized the payroll at the Ministry of Finance and
10 All salaries are to be authorized (mandaté) by the 10th day of the
following month, and the difference between authorized salary expenditure
and actual salary payments is not to exceed CFAF 500 million at the end of
any given month. This CFAF 500 million 'float" represe-.ts about 15 percent
of monthly salary expenditure and, given the delay in transactions outside
the capital, is deemed acceptable.



- 2i -
Commerce and vill computerize civil service personnel management at the
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service during 1990-92.
62.        With regard to allocations for operation and maintenance, an
increased share of the current budget vill be allocated for expenditure on
material and supplies, including didactic material in the education sector.
The latter will be reclassified under general material expenditure starting
vith the 1992 budget. The budgetary allocation for such expenditure vas
raised from 9.1 percent in 1989 to 11.0 percent in 1990 and vill be
increased to at least 12.5 percent and 14.0 percent in the 1991 and 1992
budgets, respectively.
Tb la 2: STRUCTURE OF CURRENT BUJOGT EXPENDITlEE (CFAF bi llIon*)
1l89       lm90       l1         1992
(budget)    (proj)     (Pro°)
Personnel ExpendIture 1/              88.C       40.2       40.0        40.0
S of Total Current Exp.nditur.        00.4%      58.4x       C7.7%      s7.0%
SupplI e 2/                            s.8        7.0        e.7        9.8
% of Total Currnt ExpendItur.          9.0%      11.0%       12.5%      14.0%
Other Current Expenditure S          19.5       21.0       20.0        20.4
S of Total Current Expenditure        80.6%      s0.        29.8s       29.0x
Total Current Expenditure 4/          08.7       68.0       69.8       70.2
o/m education il                  1S ô       17.1       17.S       17.0
S of current expenditure          2C.0%      24.8%      26.0%      25.0%
o/w hea th e/                      4.2        4.S        5.1        5.6
S of current expenditure           o.0%       e.6        7.8%       s.0%
o/w current road maintenance
I of current exponditure
Arrears Reduction                      4.8        7.7        -           -
Total Current Budget 7/               os.0       70.e       09.8        70.2
Annexed Budget and Special Funde      28.C       25.7       24.4        28.1
TOTAL CURRENT EXPENDrTRE              96.1       102.S      98.7       9s.s
1/ Chapter IL lu Qovern_mnt Budget.
2/ Chapters 12 and 24-2 ln Oovernmnt Budget.
8/ Chaptere 18-27 ln Covernment Budget (excludinu chapter 24-2).
4/ Total Governm_nt Budget («eluding Annex Budgets and Speclal Funde) lest Arrears Reduction
and Central S8nk Interest, and Developeent Expendtture (7/).
6/ Includes *Subventions à l'Enseignement Privé' and e*timated expenditure for *tudent travel
abroad (FCFA C00 million tn 1989 and FCFA 702 million lu 1990) and vlthin Mal (46% of
total expenditure on travel within Mali lu charges ceelunes).
0/ Includes «Affaires Soclales', *Subventions a: Croix Rouge Mallenne, Dispensaires Privde,
Cntr de Réadaptation de. Handicapée, Intitut des Jeunes Aveu91«* and 'Frais
d'Hopttallsation'.
7/ Excludes Chapters 80-86 of Inveeteent 8udget.
Sourceo: Budget de l'Etat 1900
Sltuation Consolidée du Budget d'Etat du 1.1. au 81.12.89
63.        The Government recognizes that budget allocations for essential
public services such as basic health care, primary education, and routine
road maintenance are currently inadequate. The reform program aims at
increasing the share of current expenditure for these sectors. In the



- 24 -
education sector, at least 25 percent of the goverument recurrent budget
vill be allocated to education expenditure of which 40 percent vill be
spent on primary education. The budget share for health expenditures vill
be maintained at 6.6 percent in 1990 and increased to at least 7.3 percent
and 8.0 percent in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Beginning with the 1991
budget, ail expenditure by the Road Fund vill be transferred to the regular
budget vith a minimum allocati_n for current road maintenance of CFAF 2.2
billion in 1991 and CFAF 2.4 billion in 1992. By March 31, 1991, a cost
accounting system vill be put in place in the National Directorate of
Public Vorks to ensure the timely availability of reliable data on road
maintenance expenditure.
64.       Agreement on the 1991 and 1992 government budgets, incorporating
the above targets, vill be a condition for second and third tranche
release, respectively. In order to assure close and timely monitoring of
actual expenditure during the year, the Government vill furnish a monthly
budget execution suimmiary to the Bank vithin 60 days of the close of each
month.
65.       The Government recognizes that the proliferation of annexed
budgets and special funds has resulted in a fragmentation of the government
decision-making process as vell as an unduly complicated budgetary process.
In 1989, expenditure of annexed budgets and special funds represented 14
percent of total government expenditure, while revenues from annexed
budgets and special funds amounted to 31 percent of total government
revenue. The overall surplus of all annexed budgets and special funds vas
CFAF 9.8 billion. The four most important special funds are the debt
service fund (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement-^CAA), the price
stabilization fund (Office de Stabilisation et de Regulation des Prix--
OSRP), the road fund (Fonds Routier), and the social security fund
(Institut National de Prévoyance Sociale--INPS). With a view toward
improving the efficiency of public sector management over the medium term,
the Government has developed a plan of action for the integration and
consolidation of the special funds and annexed budgets into the regular
budget. The plan of action calls for the complete integration of six
annexed budgets and special funds (para. 56) into the general budget,
including the CAA and road fund, beginning vith the 1991 budget. A study
ls currently undervay to determine the future of the OSRP. A study on
three additional annexed budgets will be completed by June 30, 1991.
Civil Service Reform
66.       Lickaround.  Despite earlier reform efforts, the Malian civil
service is characterized by overstaffing, lov productivity, inadequate
management resources and procedures, poor definition of tasks, insufficient
supplieo, and lov motivation. ln addition, as noted above, the size of the
vage bill has become a groving concern, since it leaves insufficient funds
for priority non-salary public expenditures. As of March 1990, there vere
42,387 goverument employees (excluding military personnel) on the payroll,
comprised of 32,230 civil servants and 10,157 contractual employees
(conventionnaires). Table 3 provides comparative data on the number and
salary level of government employees within the region. Wages and salaries
in Mali are the lowest of the franc zone countries but still considerably
higher than many neighboring countries outside the zone.



- 25 -
Trable 8s CWMARAT  DATA ON CIVIL SERVICE SIZE AND REMATIO4 (1989)
- - ----~ --               - "W V   -- w ||llS'1E|'---------_
Mtil Burklo.  Chnel C,. harl  Iburittnit N19 r Samgal
d'IvOIr
Clvll Servante (o)
-thouoan&                42    84    24   184    10        21    88    67
-per '000 popuittlon      6      4     4    12    12       il     6      9
covernn4t Voe s 111 (*>
-M Stlillons             82   180    66  1110    14        69   108   892
-X of governf.nt revenu.  24%   461   G1S   60X   28%    21%   48X   s1X
Average Annuel Wag.
-#JS8                  1,900  8,900  2,800  ,8$00  1,600  2,900  8,000  5,900
-ratlo to  P por cnpltt   7    18    12    il       7       ô    10      9
Milnlmm age ($110) MS/yer) 488   862   818  1,248  8au      818   711  1,198
mmorandum Items:
Populition (illiton.)     8      9     Ô    il      1       2     7      7
0OP per capita (USa)    260   810   190   790   230    48S   290   ôS0
(o) Excludlng military personnel
67.       Past Adiustment Efforts.  The Malian government halted automatic
recruitment into the civil service in 1983 and has, since that date, set
specific recruitment targets filled by competitive examinations. In 1986,
vith the financial support of USAID, Mali introduced a voluntary departure
program for civil servants, and 643 individuals left the civil service
under the program during 1987-89. Although the number of departing civil
servants vas amall, this program provides indispensable experience for the
design and implementation of the expanded program the Government has
recently adopted.
68.       SAL-Supported Reform Program.  The Government has decided to
make civil service reform one of the major components of its adjustmeat
program. Reform measures under SAL I vould comprise: a civil service
restructuring program and an enlarged voluntary departure program.
69.        The Malian Government's civil service restructuring program is
comprised of the introduction of cadres organiques and the reduction in
number and size of administrative structures. The cadres organiques have
been prepared by the Malian authorities over the past three years and the
last vere approved in November 1990. They specify for each government
department and agency the number and the content of all permanent positions
that are required for the respective unit to perform satisfactorily the
tasks assigned to it. 11/ Implementation of the cadres organiques has
identified a surplus of about 8000 staff (about 20 percent of total staff),
vho are to be released from their present position and transferred to the
111 The cadres organiques have four objectives: a) to set a framevork for
preparation of the personnel budget; b) to impose an objective
justification for each job creation; c) to allow comparison between
existing human resources and forecasted needs, in order to develop
appropriate training programs; and d) to facilitate the match between
positions and administrative structures, and their missions.



- 26 -
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service before December 31, 1990, in order
either to be redeployed or to leave the civil service. All redeployment
vill be achieved by December 31, 1991.  The voluntary departure program
described below i8 one of the principal means to implement the cadres
orRaniques and to help released employees to establish themselves in the
private sector.
70.       The Malian Government has also decided to reduce the size and
number of administrative structures. In view of the increase in the number
of national and regional administrative structures over the past ten
years 12/, the program aims at rationalizing the administrative
structure by eliminating unita that are no longer needed and merging those
whose functions currently overlap.  The number of administrative structures
vas reduced, effective September 1, 1990, from 124 to 97 through the merger
of 31 unita into 15 and the suppression of 11 others. In order to increase
the efficiency of the administration, the Government has also decided to
computerize personnel management in the Ministry of Employment and Civil
Service based on a computerization plan prepared by consultants under the
Economic Management and Training Project (Credit 1307-MLI) and to initiate
a study of the remuneration system for civil servants. The remuneration
study vill elaborate reform proposals and an implementation calendar by
April 1, 1991.
71.       Encouraged by the success of the first voluntary departure
program 13/, the Government has decided to undertake a larger scale
program under the proposed SAL I. This program has two objectives: to
reduce the share of the vage bill in recurrent expenditures (see above);
and to improve the functioning of the civil service, through the
implementation of the cadres organiques and the reduction in number and
size of administrative structures. In order to achieve these objectives,
the Malian government approved on August 1, 1990, a voluntary departure
program to reduce government employment by about 1700 civil servants and
6500 non-civil servant government employees (conventionnaires). 14/
This represents about 20 percent of total government employees and 8
percent of formal sector employment. Full computerization within the
Ministry of Finance of civil service salary payments, effective since June
1990, vill permit close and regular monitoring of the above schedule and
the overall number of government employees.  Reduction of the number of
12/ In 1967 civilian Malian ministries counted 24 departments, in 1975, 45,
and in 1989, 79, to which must be added ministerial advisory staff
(cabinet) and 18 regional services.
13! The number of candidates for the program vas about twice the number for
vhom financing vas available. A survey made in 1987 indicated that a large
majority of ex-civil servants vere satisfied vith their choice and
considered thenselves better off having left the civil service.
141 Conventionnaires are government employees, vhose status is ruled by the
Labor Code and conventions collectives. Despite this legal statue and
supposedly lover skills, they have in fact been considered permanent
government employees. They represented 24Z of total government employees
in 1989.



- 27 -
gover.-ent employees from 42,387 in May 1990 to 40,000 by March 31, 1990
and to 36,000 by March 31, 1992 vill be conditions for the release of the
second and third tranches of the proposed credit. By December 31, 1992,
the payroll should be reduced to not more than 34,000 employees.
72.       For civil servants, the program includes an incentive package
composed of a fixed premium, maintenance of pension rights or reimbursement
of retirement contributions, and reinsertion benefits. The departure
premium would be the same as that granted under the first voluntary
departure program, namely CFAF 4.0 million for civil servants in Category
A, CFAF 2.5 million for those in Category B, and CFAP 1.7 million for those
in Category C. This represents on average about four years of salary. The
fixed premium formula vas adopted because of its simplicity oi
administration, the precodent created by the first voluntary departure
program, and the fact that it provides a greater incentive for younger
civil servants to depart thus generating higher long-term budgetary savings
and encouraging the departure of those civil servants judged to have a
better chance of finding alternative employment. As a further incentive,
the program would guarantee pension rights for civil servants vith 15 or
more years of service and reimburse retirement contributions for those vith
less than 15 years of service. For conventionnaires, the program provides
premia of CFA? 2.4 million for Categories 10-11, CFAF 1.5 million for
Categories 8-9, and CFA? 1.0 million for Categories 5-7. This represents
approximately three years of salary. No special pension arrangements are
provided for conventionnaires since they maintain their rights to a
retirement pension in the existing social security system. In order to
encourage rapid enrollment in the program and civil service down-sizing on
the schedule given above, candidates enrolling by February 1, 1991,
irrespective of their actual departure date, vould receive 100 percent of
the premium, those enrolling by July 1, 1991, vould receive 80 percent of
the original premium, and those enrolling after July 1, 1991, vould receive
60 percent of the original premium. Civil servants transferred to the
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service who have not been reassigned by
December 31, 1991 vould, nevertheless, receive 100 percent of the premium
if they enroll before March 1, 1992, and 60 percent of the premium after
that date. The cadres organiques provide the reference framework for the
voluntary departure program and not all government employees are eligible.
In particular, the eligibility of primary school teachers, basic health
care personnel, statisticians, and computer specialists vill be restricted,
subject to sectoral program requirements.
73.       Integration of departing government employees into other
economic activity vould be facilitated in three wayss (i) a preparation and
training fund designed for individuals intending to create their own
business vould be available on a voluntary basis and cover up to 80 percent
of training costs (up to a maximum of CFA? 250,000 per person), and up to
50 percent of project preparation coste (up to a maximum of CFAF 250,000
per person); (ii) a monitoring unit vill provide information to the
departees, manage the departure process and coordinate the interventions of
the institutions involved in the program and; (iii) a guaranty fund,
designed on the model of the first voluntary departure program, vould cover
up to 50 percent of the loan amount borrowed by departees from commercial
banks.



- 28 -
74.       The financial aspects of the program vill be managed by the
Ministry of Finance and all payments will be made through the Treasury.
Departures, and the corresponding expenditure on premia, vill be staggered
over two years. The average *costm of departure premia and pension
reimbursements corresponds to 3.2 years of salary and benefits for the
proposed departees. Given normal advancement vithin grades, the departure
costs should be recouped in less than three years from the time of
departure. The cost of the volontary departure program, including
departure premia, pension rehilbursement and reinsertion benefits, vould be
financed from budgetary resources, including counterpart funds generated
from cofinancers and the proposed IDA-credit.  Table 4 provides estimates
of the total cost and budgetary savings of the program.
Table 4: COST AND BUXIUETARY SAVINOS OF VOUJNTARY OEPARTURE PROCRAN
Number   Proposed  Departure  Penslon   TOTAL   Annuel
E6ploy d  Number of Bonuc   R.iabureoent COST    Savinge
June 1990 Deperte  ... ('000 US8/D.part«)... .. (USO mllion)..
Civil Servante
C.tepory A     6,79?     180      16.4      0.8        2.9       0.7
Catffory B    14,823     840       9.6       0.7       8.7       2.2
C:tagory C    11,824     o46       6.6       0.6       4.6       1.1
Category D      287        0       ...       ...       ...        ...
82,230    1,o8S
Contractuel Employoe
C.ts.orios 10-11  103     86       8.8       ...       0.8       0.8
Catgori.s 8-9   o48      6t2       6.8       ...       a.1        1.0
Cataorles 5-7  7,186    6,88S      8.6       ...      20.3       7.2
Catagorie« 1-4  1,102      0       ...            ...       ...
8,987    6,600
Other EmpG oyes    1,170     0      ...       ...        ...
TOTAL          42,887    8,166                         40.4       12.5
Public Investment Program
75.       Background.  The limited coverage of the Government budget in
the past significantly reduced its usefulness as an instrument of economic
policy.   Until 1988, the Government budget excluded foreign-financed
public investment expenditure, which accounts for some 90 percent of public
investment. Investment projects undervent little screening from the Malian
side as to their viability and suitability for the country's overall
sectoral strategies. Monitoring of project execution vas also veak.
76.       Past Adjustment Efforts.  Since 1988, the Government has
prepared successive three-year rolling public investment programs vith a
view to integrating the selection of projects into a comprehensive
macroeconomic framework. In 1988, the Government set up its first annual
investment budget in the context of the three-year rolling public
investment program, comprising both domestically and externally financed
investment expenditures. The investment budget focuses on supporting the
directly productive sectors, in particular agriculture (34 percent in



- 29 -
1989), and infrastructure rehabilitation (29 percent in 1989). In order to
improve monitoring and financial management, the investment budget vas
consolidated in 1989 vith the Government budget and formally integrated
into the regular expenditure control and budgetary processes.
77.       SAL-Supported Reform Program.  Agreement vas reached during pre-
appraisal in November 1989 on the 1990-92 investment program and the 1990
investment budget. Although substantial progresa has been achieved in
investment budgeting over the past 3 years, the investment budget and
three-year program do not yet provide effective instruments for efficient
public resource management.  Under the proposed SAL, the Government intends
to improve both the system for programming public investments and the
procedures for monitoring actual expenditure. The Government vill neither
contract nor guarantee non-concessional loans during the program
period. 15/  The Government vill continue its efforts to improve the
selection of projects to be included in the annual investment budget and in
the three-year investment program.  In particular, starting vith the 1991
investment budget, each project whose total costs exceed CFAF 1.0 billion
vill require a feasibility study demonstrating its economic and financial
viability taking into account counterpart fund, recurrent cost and debt-
service implications. This constitutes a first step towards establishing a
better link between the preparation of current and investment budgets and
should help ensure that projects are initiated only if there is a realistic
possibility for sufficient operating and maintenance funding for their
upkeep.  The Government vill take steps to strengthen the capacity to
identify and evaluate projects in the Direction Nationale de la
Planification (DNP), which is responsible for the preparation of the
investment program, as vell as in the planning divisions of the technical
ministries. In this regard, UNDP is currently providing technical
assistance to the DNP. Satisfactory implementation of the 1990 investment
budget and agreement on the 1991-93 investment program and the 1991
investment budget vill be a condition for second tranche release.
Satisfactory implementation of the 1991 investment budget and agreement on
the 1992-94 program and 1992 budget vill be a condition for third tranche
release.
78.       Vith regard to the monitoring of the execution of the investment
budget, the Government intends to further strengthen the integration of the
investment budget into the normal expenditure control processes, in light
of the experience gained in the first year of application.  While the
formal steps to improve the monitoring of investment expenditure vere taken
in 1989, substantial improvements are still required vith regard to
procedures for regular and timely monitoring of foreign financed
expenditure. In preparation for the proposed SAL, the Government has
adopted revised monitoring procedures and their effective application vill
be reviewed annually.
15/  The only exception vould concern high return projects in such sectors
as telecommunications and energy where, if concessional financing cannot be
found, the Government vill consult vith the Bank on a case by case basis
vith regard to the guarantee of non-concessional loans from international
organizations.



- 30 -
D.   Social Dimensions
Reduction in Government Employment
79.       The reforme anticipated under SAL 1, together with ongoing and
planned sectoral reform efforts, are expected to improve public resource
management and incentives for private sector development and, consequently,
to contribute to a broad-based real increase in per capita income. The
reform program vill, however, entail transitional costs for those
government employees who, voluntarily or othervise, lose their jobs. To
minimize the adverse short-term impact of the civil service restructuring,
the Government is taking measures to facilitate the integration of released
employees into the private sector. Firat, the restructuring of the ONMOE
(para. 55) will improve the Government's ability to assist job seekers.
Second, the Government is promoting the establishment of small-scale and
micro-enterprises vith the coordinated support of the donor coammunity. For
this purpose it held a donors' round table on employment issues in February
1990. Ongoing programs supported by the FED, CIDA and the CCCE provide
project preparation assistance, credit and follow-up supervision to small
entrepreneurs. Third, the Governament will create a Preparation and
Training Fund which would finance up to 80 percent of the training costs
incurred by former government employees.  Fourth, in the longer term, the
improved economic incentive structure is expected to foster private sector
activities leading to greater employment creation.
Increased Funding for Social Sectors
80.       The proposed restructuring of public expenditures would free up
resources for deferred maintenance expenditures and expansion of basic
public services, which will benefit the population in general and the
poorest groups in particular. The budgetary share of the education sector
will be maintained at, at least, 25 percent of current expenditures and
that of the health sector will be increased to, at least, 8.0 percent in
1992. The eligibility of primary school teachers and basic health
personnel for the civil service voluntary departure program would be
restricted. Combined with the IDA-financed Education Sector Consolidation
Project and the proposed IDA-financed Population and Health Project, these
measures vould substantially improve access to basic services. The
proposed improvements in public investL nt programming would also benefit
the majority of the population, given the emphasis of public investment on
agriculture and the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure.
Monitoring Poverty Indicators
81.       In order to closely monitor the welfare of different categories
of the population, the Government is establishing a permanent household
survey program. This program is based on the experience of the recent
Budget/Consumption and Informal Sector Surveys--the analysis of which would
be finalized under the program--and would consist of an integrated and a
community survey every four years and a priority survey during the interim
years. A report on the living conditions of households in Kali will be
published annually. A usera' committee has been created so as to ensure
close coordination between data producers and relevant line ministries as
vell as other technical agencies. This survey program would lay the



- 31 -
foundation for further improvement of the Government's capacity to
formulate appropriate policies to foster the participation of the
chronically poor in the process of economic growth.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Credit History
82.       The proposed credit would be the first IDA Structural Adjustment
Credit for Mali. Previous adjustment operations included,the Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Operation (PESAP) (FY88), the hybrid Education
Sector Consolidation Credit (FY89), and the hybrid Agricultural Sector
AdjustmentlInvestment Credit (FY90). The possibility of a structural
adjustment credit was first discussed vith the Government during missions
that visited Mali in July 1988 and in February 1989.  The proposed SAL I
vas preappraised in October 1989 and appraised in March 1990. A post-
appraisal mission visited Mali in May 1990 to finalize the policy package
supported by the proposed operation. A PPF (PPF 632-MLI) to complete the
preparation of key reforms vas approved in June 1990. Negotiations vere
held in Washington in October 1990. Supplementary data on the proposed
credit le provided in Annex IV.
B.   Financing and Management of the Program
83.       Credit Amount and Borrover.  It is proposed that the
Government's adjustment program be supported by an IDA credit on standard
terms for the equivalent of US$70 million. The African Development Bank
(AfDB) and the European Economic Conmmunity (EEC) intend to provide US$18
million equivalent and US$20 million equivalent, respectively, in
cofinancing or parallel financing. France, Canada, Germany, the U.S., the
BUC and the OPEC Fund have, in addition, already provided US$38.0 million
equivalent of quick disbursing assistance in support of Mali's 1990-92
adjustment program. France and the Netherlands have also expressed
interest in providing additional cofinancing or parallel financing. The
borrover vould be the Government of Mali. The amount of the proposed SAL
has been determined in light of Mali's overall IDA-9 allocation, total
financing requirements, and appropriate burden-sharing with other donors.
Remaining diabursements of adjustment financing under the ongoing public
enterprise, education, and agriculture sector operations (US$27 million),
". the proposed credit (US$70 million), and additional adjustment lending in
FY91-93 would provide the approximate level of resources necessary to
sustain Mali's strong adjustment performance.
84.       Procurement.  Contracts exceeding US$2.S million will be subject
to international competitive bidding. For amounts below US$2.5 million,
public agencies vill follow public procurement procedures found to be
acceptable in the past and seek three price quotations from at least tvo
countries. For amounts below US$2.5 million private importers vill follow
established conmercial practices and, whenever possible, seek quotations
form eligible suppliers in at least two countries. Single source
purchasing would be used only for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility vith existing equipment requires standardization. Certain
conmonly traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations



- 32 -
avallable from organized international comodity markets with prior
consultation vith IDA. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
US$5,000 or less would be ineligible for flnancing in order to reduce the
nuamber of transactions. Procurement documentation would be maintained for
ex-post review by Bank supervision missions. The Goverument of Mali
engaged SGS for preshipment import verification services in September 1989,
and imports financed under the credit would be inspected by SGS.  Au
assessment of the efficacity of these services vill be undertaken in 1991.
85.       Disbursement.  The proposed credit vould be disbursed against
the following categories of expenditures
Amount (US$ million)
(1)  General Imports           66.0
(2)  Technical Assistance       3.6
(3)  PPF 632-HLI                0.4
70.0
The primary use of the credit vould be to finance 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of general imports not contained on a negative list.
No limitation would be placed on disbursements for petroleum and food
importa. The proposed credit vould be disbursed in three equal tranches
corresponding to the Government's 1990-92 budgets. The first tranche vould
become available upon effectiveness, the second approximately six to nine
months later, and the third approximately nine months later. Disbursement
of the second and third tranches vould be contingent upon completion of
satisfactory revlews of the implementation of the adjustment program,
agreement on any additional actions needed to achieve the program's initial
objectives, and fulfillment of the specific conditions listed below.
86.       USS3.6 million of the proposed credit vould be allocated for
consultant services and related expenditure. This component vould be used
to finance the SDA activities described in paragraph 80 and to complement
the Economic and Financial Management Support Project being supported by
the French Ministry of Cooperation and UNDP. The project provides key
technical assistance to the tax, customs, treasury and budget directorates
in the Ministry of Finance, as vell as to a coordinating cellule attached
to the Minister's Office. The technical assistance component of the SAL
would provide financing for implementation of institutional reformas
prepared under the French/UNDP project as vell as the urgent short-term
assistance required in key areas to implement and monitor the reform
measures which cannot be adeqaately funded through other channels.
Activities to be financed by this component are outlined in Annex VI.
Consultants financed under the credit vill be selected and hired in
accordance vith the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Employment and Use of
Consultants.
87.       The Government vill establish two Special Accounts to facilitate
disbursements.  Special Account A vill be established at the Central Bank
for general imports and Special Account B at a comnercial bank for the
technical assistance component. At effectiveness, an initial deposit of
CFAP 2.5 billion vould be made to Special Account A and an initial deposit
of CFAF 80 million to Special Account B. Special Account A vould be
replenished regularly, subject to a minimum replenishment application of



- 33 -
US$500,000, up to the limit of the amount of each of the three tranches on
the basis of (a) fully documented reimbursement applications for contracts
exceeding US$100,000; and (b) statements of expenditure (SOEs) for
expenditures for items betveen US$5,000 and US$100,000. Withdrawal
applications and replenishment requeste submitted to the Bank vill include
the folloving documentation: purchase order or contract, invoice, evidence
of receipt of goods and services, and payment authorization. The BCEAO
would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of the goods, as vell as
the payment date, and vould maintain all relevant suipporting documentation
(invoices, evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment;
for review during supervision missions. Retroactive disbursement would be
permitted for an amount not exceeding 20 percent of the total credit amount
for eligible imports procured no earlier than four months prior to credit
signing. The closing date for the proposed credit would be June 30, 1993.
88.       Management and Monitoring of the Program.  The program vill be
implemented by the various agencies involved in the reform process under
the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. In
addition, the Minister-Secretary General of the Presidency vill continue to
ensure the coordination of Mali's overall adjustment efforts. Frequent
contacts with the authorities through the resident mission staff and
supervision missions will facilitate continuous monitoring of the program's
progress. Bank staff vili continue to coordinate closely vith the IMF
staff to ensure adequate monitoring of key economic policies and
indicators. The Government's recent performance demonstrates that it is
able to implement a comprehensive adjustmetii program. Existing veaknesses
in specific ministries involved in the adjustment process vill be
aileviated through technical assistance and logistic support provided under
the proposed SAL.
C. Monitorable Actions
89.       The policy measures to be taken under the proposed SAL I are
detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (see Annex Il).
Tranche releases vill depend upon satisfactory review of overall
performance under the adjustment program, including maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic framework and agreement on additional actions
required to achieve the program's objectives, and upon the completion of a
specified list of core actions. The Letter of Development Policy forms the
basis for the performance review.
90.       The following actions have already been taken by the Government
under the proposed program:
(a) adoption of the 1990 current and investment budget satisfactory
to the Bank, including freeze on personnel expenditure,
increased allocations for non-wage operation snd maintenance
expenditure, appropriate allocations for health and education
sectors, and agreed sectoral priorities for investment
expenditure (paras. 61-64, 77);
(b) elimination of all price controls, with the exception of margin
controls on pharmaceu'icals, petroleum products, urban passenger
transport, and international freight transport (para. 54);



- 34 -
(c) abolition of the hiring monopoly of the National Labor Office
(para. 55);
(d) elimination of quantitative restrictions on lmports and exports;
(e) elimination of all export taxes (para. 47);
(f) approval by Council of Ministers of import ta% consolidation and
tariff simplification effective January 1, 1991 (para. 47);
(g) adoption of program for reducing the size of the civil service,
including specific targets for the number of civil servants to
be released (para. 71).
91.       The following are the core actions to be taken by the Government
as conditions of second tranche releases
(a) The Borrover has enacted tax legislation providing for:
Ci)     replacement of the Tax on Goods and Services (Impôt
sur les Affaires et les Services) with a Value Added
Tax (para. 47);
(ii)     elimination of the OSRP Tax (Taxe de l'Office de
Stabilisation et Réglementation des Prix), the Mining
Fund Tax, the Petrostock Tax and the TIC Tax (Taxe
Intérieure sur les Carburants) (para. 47);
(iii)     reduction of the rates of Fiscal Import Tax (Droit
Fiscal à l'Importation) to three (para. 47);
(iv)     application of the Excise Tax to kola-nuts, tea,
alcohol, tobacco, cigarettes, salt, ammunition,
petroleum products and vehicles (para. 47); and
(v)     a.  -cation of a Digressive Protection Tas (Taxe
Dégressive de Protection) to the following categories
of goodss flour, palm oil, household soap, plastic
baga, bottles, embroideries, kaki and printed fabrics,
packing sacks, tin basis, galvanized buckets,
household articles, batteries, pastas, biscuits,
plasters and matches (para. 47).
(b) Price controls have been eliminated on all items with the
exception of petroleum products (para. 54).
(c) The Borrower's Labor Code has been revised so as to introduce
greater flexibility in hiring and dismissing procedures and is
satisfactory to the Association (para. 55).
(d> The aggregate number of civilian employees on the payroll of the
Borrower's State Budget (civil servants and contract employees)
has been reduced to not more than 40,000 (para. 71).



- 35 -
(e) The Borrover has approved 1991 current and investment budgets
satisfactory to the Association and a 1991-1993 rolling Public
Investment Program satisfactory to the Association (paras, 64,
77).
(f)  The Borrover has implemented the 190 current and investment
budget in a manner satisfactory to the Association (paras. 61-
64, 77).
92.       The following are the core actions to be taken by the Goverument
as conditions of third tranche release:
(a)  The Borrover has approved legislation establishiug a unitary
personal income tax and a unitary company profits tas (para.
51).
(b)  The aggregate number of civilian employees on the payroll of the
Borrower's State Budget (civil servants and contract employees)
has been further reduced to not more than 36,000 (para. 71).
(c)  The Borrover has approved 1992 current and investment budgets
satisfactory to the Association and a 1992-1994 rolling Public
Program satisfactory to the Association (paras. 64, 77).
(d)  The Borrower has implemented the 1991 current and investment
budget in a manner satisfactory to the Association (paras. 64,
77)
D.   Benefits and Risks
93.       The proposed SAL is expected to contribute to the restoration of
internal and external financial and economic equilibria through its impact
on the Government budget and external trade. The proposed measures to
Improve economic incentives are also expected to have a positive impact on
economic growth snd employment creation in the private sector.
94.       The major risk is that vested interests who benefit from
existing policies vill be successful in attempts to veaken Government
commitment to implementation of adjustmeent policies. Despite the
Government's demonstrated resolve to implement reforma over the last two
years and the existence of a functioning coordinating mechanism at the
Presidency, the best way to reduce this risk is to seek implementation of
key measures prior to Board approval. Hence, the proposed SAL is heavily
front-loaded. A second risk is that the relatively weak administrative
cisqcity of the Malian Government could lead to delays in program
preparation and iIplementation. This risk is reduced through the design of
the program which focusses on a few key reforms and, in general, involves a
simplification of administrative requirements and through the provision of
technical assistance in key areas. A third risk is the return of drought
conditions which vould severely hamper the expected supply response to the
proposed reforas.  Droughts vill remain a periodic problem in the Sahel and
their occurrence vill vithout doubt reduce growth. The proposed SAL
attempts to introduce increased flexibility in the economy to respond to
external shocks, including drought, through creating the basis for a more



- 36 -
diversified economy and accumulation of sufficient external reserves to
maiatain the level of importe durlng periods of poor veather. Finally.
orderly implemntation of the program is critically dependent on timely
disburseemet of projected external finacial assistance.
IV. RECOIEENDATION
95.       I au satisfied that the proposed Development Credit vould couply
vith the Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments



- 37 -
_6~I
Table I. NIL!: lf W       IC  D1CATé                                                                 paP    I of 2
SS194    1908    1906    1987    1908    lm0    1990    199      192    19l8       1998-20
rtb.    Al.    PrJ.   Proj.   PreJ.   P  eJ.        ProJ.
AWWIH RAYE
qZP                                                     MOI0.6    4.6    18,6  1.01    2.48   9o.  o.ax    3.«  4.28    4.28  4*.
0P/pla                                -1.1   -8.18    MI.1   -1.4X   -0.2t    6.7n   -2.4        1.IX    1.48    1.48        1.Q8
Privai. C_tio/Ceil                     -1.08    8.8a    1.28   -4.8S   -1.71    9.08    6.8      1.48    1.08    1.08        1.15%
m SERcI                                                                                                                 (ls) (>200)
Dbt Sie"  <US million> (a)       S      9.9    4«.S    79.4   %'.0     8.9    91.0    91.4    07.8    98.1    90.1    99.7   126.4
re chi: Inberel (UlS ltillon)        19.2    18.7    24.8    27.9    27.8    28.4    34.7    38.1   40.8    41.6    44.8    62.7
0De  Servicseji»   (>)                 17.2    21.0    80.CX   27.o5    2.88   27.«0   21.15   17.7    18.15   17.48   17.08   14.80
D0.6 Servio./S <6)                     17.88   21.08   0o.98   27.8    49.1    41.9    2t.1X   17.1     1.1    17.48   17.08   14.08
0.6t Sorvice/0DP (a)                    8.80    4.41    S.21t   4.6X    4.88    4.48    8.7.    8.1      8.1%    2.9X    2.8X    2.811
NiTIOS TO o8P
croae inveenlt                        1i.2t   19.58   22.9i   28.18   24.71   21.8X   21.18   21.08   21.88   21.28   21.0t   22.08
i_tetcl S.ving                         -8.48  -14.28   -1.28    6.288    7.9    11.48    8..288    6.18    6.01    7.X    0.9    9.08
Publi;c Inveat.ml                       ...     ...     ...     ...     9.7n    8.0%    8.9S    9.88    9.08    0.9%    9.08    9.08
PrIvat Igaentuu  (o)                    ...     ...     ...     ...    10.68   12.S8   12.9n   11.%8  12.48   12.2#   12.0«   18.08
Covernumo Raeuea                      1t.at   14.98   17.9%   18.ai   14.08   16.08   16.98   1.08%  16.8   16.48   16.6i   18.68
Curre Oovernaoi Ezprnditurs            14.08%  18.18   18.9    14.08%  14.08   14.28   1t.88   12.«    12.St   11.08   11.71   11.88
Current Doefiit (-) or Surplus C>      -1.48   -0.2J t   .9     1.1 8   -0.18    2.3X    8.68    8.6     4.08    4.08    4.Ct    8.18
Tolel O,er_ntol Exapediture            28.1X   80.28   80.4    215.9i  24.48   26.9X   2s.08   28.08   28.08   21.9X   22.2X   22.08
Over Il 0sfieit C-) or Surplus f>    -11.08  -18.28  -12.9i  -10.SX  -10.48   -9.4X   -9.48   -9.1X   40.78   4l.88   -S.68   -8.48
08P 0df a.or                           12.1%    8.28   -4.31    0.9     4.8    n.2#    1.8%    2.«S   8.08    8.08           2.08
Riel Erchang. Rile                      2.SJ    8.4X   -1.78  -16.08    2.0a   -1.       ...     ...     ...     ...     ...     ...
Saport Vol. Cronh Raie                1t.9X  -18.18 X 14.       8.2#   -7.7    ts.7n    4.08   14.08    4.71    4.6X         6.8
axporn (feb)/IDP                       18.18   16.6X   18.8   18.11% r  2.28   18.08    8.08   1.98   18.08   18.60  1t.98   14.48
1mort Vol. Oronh  Rate (d)              6.1x   19.18   4.08   -2.68    S.9i   -.711    4.2#    4.2#    4.4«    4.48          4.S8
lapsus (cif)i10P                      84.78   44.08   01.71  2S.28   22.0    28.88   24.08   2a.71  2s8.        28.18   22.4   22.2i
Currant _. u (UStillien)              196.8   S29.8  8U.8   297.7   888.1   20o.9   888.2    864.8   400.0   895.8  -414.0  -499.8
Curr nt AooountImP                    -18.08  -81.18  -t2.6X  -18.7X  -16.21  -tS.St  -14.2X  -18.8%  -18.    -22.18  -11.08   -9.08
(a) tEcluadine Cit  nd thc f USSR; includirn etimai. for lntler    en sas diébureeinte.
(b) As par (a>. plue dbt egrvice arrare uettlld ln 1988-89.
(c) All variation la elch ar* utrlbuted to Me privati eidor.
(d) Exoludinae orials l- orte. t hiéei costt lirug.y of fond *id and tend t  aryp Inerly aith 0P.
I9-Nv-tO



- 38 -
U 3
Tâble 2. MLZt: RUALO OF P*SU<   SM el 1i1 ll)                                                        Pb>2a ef 2
lut    1        l0 m    10     lm      lm      19e      1901    lm     son0    lm00
g".    gai.   PapI.   Pre3.   PrJ.   Pri.        Fiel.
A. lgort" of Gooda à tS                 M2.6  2U.1    0.1    M.0    14.8  .S.S   4M.8   40.S   1.8    M.0   04.2
1. Nurcundlé (Foe>                    101.0   170.1   US.?   00.0   21.8   20.8   8.0 o4.0   410.8   44.0               ...
2. Nm-Futor Services                   40.7   44.0    U.4    S4.0    02.0   07.S    3.8    e0.7   10.7   110.7    ...
B. Ipre 1t     of Gon. à FeS          .S.4    477.0  40.8  .4           .4    .0.0  -0.8  -072    M.0    -M.8  m.1
1. Nurchandisa (F>                   -004.*  -3.8  -.0  40.4  4.2   -.               -J4.6  .-5.   40.8  .40            ...
2.  on4-Nior sarvies                 -170.8  -240.1   s.?    4.2   4.4  -4.2   44.0  -.r  .41.2  -4.                    ...
C. Re.aro hlenc.                      -107.9  487.8  40.8  -0.0  -0.&  -M.4   40.8  -40.7  -4.0  -M.9  -1.r
0. Nil Facter Xwea.                    -19.8  -18.7   -.    -.0 s         .8   -M.4  -4.7   40.1   *40.8  -«.    -«2.7
a. lIu Carrent Tranfera                 20.9   48.7    40.8   49.0   88.8    0.9    78.2   00.0    a7.8    00.2   70.0
P. Carrent AgenmntSlanc               -190.8  48.8  44.0  -20.7  -.1   -0.9  43.2  -804.8  40.0  4.8  -4e.8
0. Long-Ters Cpital bll                19.5   204.e   811.3   20A.1    7.4   8.    407.8  400.8   a.4   80.0   US.2
1. Offili Capital Crante                0.4   107.0   1*.7   M0J.8   248.1   200.1   230.0   M00.8   242.4      .A   87.1
2. M"l LT Las                          84.0   08.0   14.0    eb.0   1.7         8.7   1S8.2   147.0  lSS.l   143.1   150.7
a. Diahroamant                      70..,  114.4   107.2   12.1   184.9    0.0   2.0  1«.O   181.2   1*0.2    2.4
b. Rnoapam                         -16.0  -19.4   40.2   -8.8   47.3   -7.    -M.8  -40.0  -46.1  -45.1   -0.7
o. Otjur LT lufias (Nl>)               10.2    2.    -a.4   -4.0        0.7    1.0    0.0       2.7     8.0    8.8      S.4
K. Total Othar item <N)                  4.0   -8.0   18.8   J8.0    21.4    17.0    M.0    88.1   78.8   28.2           0.0
t. an2  in Na Rehaarva                  4I.6    40.1   19.0  -27.4   4e.?  -221.8   -0.2   -0.    -0.2   -2.0   -02.7
1. Nel Cridit #rou th D»F              19.8    8.0  s.4    -9.s   -7.8   -18.1          0.0  -1.4   -7.2   -4.4    -4.7
2. Other RNrui  Choas                 -2J.1 t   8.1  0s.9   -0.0   -M.4  -10.8  -104.8   40.7          4.o   -0.1   -18.0
t- Indiastea inc_ma]
.ar. et of
1. _emucu Saitn                       -18.70  .4.8s  -24.11  -1.    -17.78  -18.20  -18.01  -18.3#  -14.7  -18.01  -10.20
2. Total l2tert PaeanJte               -1.8J   -1.8X   -1.01   -1.08   -1.11   -1.41   4.41   -1.3   -1.8#   4.#    -1.20
8. Carrent A _ qnl Sataace            -18.81  4.1.S  -s2.7   -S.7n  -10.21.  -18.81  -14.11  -18.00-.28  -12.11   -0.01
4. LT Capital Lftlow (lin, 0>          18.41   27.01   20.41   18.41   U.11   18.s   17.11   14.11   12.0   12.0   18.31
8. Nil Crdit trm Ma                     1.01    0.81   -0.01   -1.41   -0.41   -0.«    0.31   -0.41   -0.20   -0.3      0.01
Nuamisadus Itue:
US                                   1000.7   00.2   10.4  10.    20S.4  SW7.0  24ee.8  201.0  100.0  8.7  8000.0
binai Off. X-et (MS if>               4s7.0   409.8   #.8   xo.8   207.9   1.0   27.0                                   ...
(a) OUF o.vrse vme tproed ia 190. I..a d*a tor oc104 *re,mot cmparable nltA aahaaquuau geas.
10-l-"O



- 39 -                               AIZNNE  II
Page 1 of 18
TRANSLATION OF FRENCH ORIGINAL
October 6, 1990
Kr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Subject: Letter of Development Policy for 1990-92
Sir:
1.          Please find below a description of the objectives of the
Structural Adjustment Program undertaken by the Goverrment of Hali, together
vith the Government's specific policies for the period 1990-92. To help
support these objectives and policies, the Malian Government hereby requests
an IDA structural adjustment credit. The principal measures contained in the
Structural Adjustment Program are listed in the Annez attached.
I. Medium-Term Stratezy
2.          The Government of Hali, being vell avare of the country's veak
economic and financial situation, is determined to pursue its adjustment
efforts. It intends to do this vithin the context of the economic and
financial policy framework paper for the period 1990-92, prepared in close
collaboration vith the World Bank and IMF, and presented to the Bank's
Executive Board on January 9, 1990. The principal macroeconomic objectives
consist of achieving a sustainable real growth rate of around 42 by 1992,
limiting the inflation rate, as measured by the GDP deflator, to around 32,
and reducing the current account deficit of the balance of payments, excluding
public transfers, to 12.8 of GDP. This should make it possible to reach a
viable balance of payments position by 1992. Between nov and then, Mali vill
need to have recourse to exceptional external assistance, including debt
relief. In view of the shortage of domestic resources, Mali will also
continue in the foreseeable future to rely on external financial assistance
for its projects; however, as domestic savings increase, they should be able
to be used to finance an increasing share of capital formation.
3.          Mali's medium-term structural policies, as described in the
economic and financial policy framework paper, vill relate to implementation
of reforms in the cotton sector, continued liberalization of the regulatory
framework, completion of public enterprise restructuring, and strengthening of
public investment programming and monitoring.  These structural reforma vill
be reinforced by appropriate macroeconomic policies. In order to further
improve the public finance situation, additional measures vill be taken to



- 40 -                                ANNEX Il
Page 2 of 18
strengthen the tax administration, expand the tai base, enhance the elasticity
of the tax system, and improve distribution of the tax burden. A prudent
policy vill be pursued in the matter of expenditure, maintaining the vage bill
at its present level and ensuring adequate budget allocations to cover
recurrent and capital expenditure. This policy vill be combined vith a
prudent policy of debt management. The public sector vill need to reduce its
absorption of resources and settle its domestic arrears, in order that funds
may be released for the private sector. Monetary policy vill be designed in
such a way as to further lessen the pressure of overall demand, while at the
same time reducing the Government's net outstanding obligations to the banking
system and redirecting credit to private sector activity. The conduct of
monetary policy has been strengthened as a result of adoption by the BCEAO of
instruments geared to market forces, in particular, a more active interest
rate policy. The ongoing reform of the financial institutions, particularly
the restructuring of the BDM, should also enhance the efficiency of the
banking sector and promote financial intermediation.
II.  The 1990-92 Reform Program
Macroeconomic policies
4.          Financial policy vill remain oriented toward achievement of the
medium-term objectives summarized above. The Government vill continue to
attempt to improve the overall situation of the public finances, to settle all
its identified and documented domestic arrears, and to reduce its obligations
to the banking system. This policy vill be supported by a monetary policy
stressing loans to the private sector, while maintaining the growth of
domestic liquidity at a rate compatible vith the goals set for economic
growth, inflation and foreign trade.
5.          The ratio of total receipts to GDP vill be maintained at 16.62
during the period 1990-92, corresponding to an average annual increase of
around 62. The Government vill also introduce a policy to curb spending,
which should reduce the ratio of current expenditure (including the annexed
budgets and the special funds) to GDP from 13.91 in 1990 to 13.2Z in 1991, and
12.51 in 1992. The consolidated current budget vill thus show a surplus of
2.72 of GDP in 1990, of 3.4Z of GDP in 1991, and of 4.1 of GDP in 1992. A
large increase in investment expenditure, most of which vill be financed by
project aid, is anticipated. The overall deficit, including investment
expenditure financed from external sources, is projected to fall from around
92 of GDP in 1990 to 72 in 1992.  The Governient vill continue to seek a
sustainable overall position of the public finances, to settle all its
identified and documented domestic arrears, and to reduce its obligations to
the banking system. Budgetary projections vill continue to be revised each
year, in consultation vith the Bank arÂd IMF, to take account of progress made
in absorbing imbalances and making financing available. Such revisions, as
vell as the additional measures necessary for achievement of the program's
original objectives, vill be summarized in an economic and financial
memorandum to be sent to the Bank by the start of the fiscal year concerned.



- 41 -                                AmEX II
Page 3 of 18
6.          The Government has obtained debt rescheduling and cancellation
amounting to CFAF 6.5 billion for 1990. Paris Club members have rescheduled
CFAF 4.4 billion in current maturities, of vhich CFA? 3 billion corresponde to
debt cancellation by France and the United States. In addition, rescheduling
of service on the debt maturing in 1990, a total of CFAF 2.1 billion, has been
agreed vith other official creditors. Because of Mali's external debt burden,
the Government will pursue its prudent external debt management policy. It
vill not contract or guarantee any new nonconcessional foreigu loans, except
for debt rescheduling and refinancing and normal short-term import credits.
Projects showing high rates of economic and financial return, such as those in
the energy and telecommunications sectors, which vould only find financing in
the form of nonconcessional resources from international agencies, might
possibly constitute an exception. It is understood that this exception vould
relate to commitments of over 12 years. It is also understood that no project
with nonconcessional financing vould be undertaken by the Malian Government
vithout the agreement of the Bank and Fund. In addition, the policy of
guaranteeing the debts of certain enterprises vill be revised to limit those
guarantees as much as possible. Any new loan contracted or guaranteed by the
Government, and any vithdraval against such loans, vill be submitted to the
Ministry of Finance and Commerce for prior authorization. All servicing of
the external public debt or Government-guaranteed debt vill continue to be
centralized and channeled by the CAA (debt service fund). The computerized
data management system used by the CAA vill be strengthened so that all the
information needed for efficient management of the public debt can be produced
vith suitable regularity.
7.          The Governnent vill continue to apply a monetary policy compatible
vith the adjustment goals. During the period 1990-92, the average annual
growth rate of domestic liquidity vill be maintained at a level below that of
nominal GDP, so as to reduce pressure due to surplus demand. However, to
promote growth, the credit policy vill be designed to channel resources into
the productive sectors of the economy. The possibilities of expanding credit
to the private sector vill be increased, in light of the reduction in the role
of the State and the improvement in the expected financial results of the
public sector. The conduct of monetary policy vill be facilitated by the
restructuring of the financial institutions, in particular the BDM and the
postal checking account system. To this end, the Government vill furnish its
full support to the BDM restructuring process, in particular in the area of
loan recovery.
8.          As a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), Mali has
proceeded to overhaul the monetary policy instruments approved by the UMOA
Council of Ministers in September 1989. The reform aims to gradually replace
administrative control of money and credit by a system of instruments that are
more indirect and geared to the market forces, vith a view to improving the
conduct of monetary policy, promoting savings mobilization, improving the
quality of the deposit banks' portfolio, and promoting financing of the
productive sectors of the economy. During the transition period preceding the
institution of a legal reserve policy, the Central Bank vill continue to use
interest rate policy and credit ceilings as its principal instruments. The
BCEAO vill pursue an active interest rate policy. The preferential discount
rate vas discontinued as of October 1, 1989; the commercial bank interest rate



- 42 -                                ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
matrices have been simplified and rationalized; and the banks nov have greater
liberty in determining lending and borroving rates. Non-banking financial
establishments can have recourse to money market advances, and direct
interbank loans vill be liberalized. The Central Bank's discount rate vill
remain higher than the money market rates, and the BCEAO vill no longer
intervene, except as lender of last resort. The conditions of access to
Central Bank refinancing are thus being strengthened. Seasonal credit vill be
refinanced by the Central Bank only vithin its overall refinancing ceiling,
and vill also be included vithin the overall ceiling on commercial bank
lending. The sectoral credit policy has been abolished. There vill also be a
ceiling on net bank lending to the Government, and nonperforming loans
guaranteed by the Government vill alo, in certain circumatances, bb -e"'ect
to this ceiling. With respect to monitoring of the banking system, the
supervisory functions of the Central Bank have been strengthened and a
supranational banking commission vas set up on October 1, 1990.
Regulation of the economy
9.          With respect to the regulatory framevork, the Government vill
continue the process of simplifying administrative procedures vith a viev to
increasing private sector participation in production, trade and employment.
This vill involve strengthening the legal and institutional framevork
applicable to economic activities, so as to enhance the transparency of the
market. To this end, it is planned to help the private sector improve its
structures and organizations, including the Malian Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, through a reform geared to greater representativeness, improved
diffusion of information, and broader and more thorough training. The
measures proposed are described below.
10.         Liberalizat4on of the economy vill be achieved through the almost
total abolition of existing price controls, and through an easing of
regulatory procedures. Thus, the number of goods and services subject to
price control vas reduced on January 1, 1990 from 10 to only 4, namely,
pharmaceutical and veterinary products, hydrocarbons, urban passenger
transportation and international goods transportation. It is proposed to
abolish price controls on pharmaceutical and veterinary products, urban
passenger transportation, and international goode transportation by January 1,
1991 at the latest, leaving hydrocarbons alone subject to fixed pricing. A
study on the current hydrocarbon taxation and pricing policy is also planned
(see fiscal reform, below) vith a view to replacing the present pricing system
by a system of taxation.
il.               All the organic provisions of the Commercial Code vill be
revised to bring them into line vith the requirements of economic reform. All
existing regulations vill be modified vith a view to simplifying
administrative procedures and harmonizing them vith the revised Commercial
Code. This should eliminate any remaining confusion and awkwardnesses,
thereby promoting the sustained resumption of economic activities in all
areas. It vill alo make it possible to facilitate and accelerate the
transfer from the informal to the formal sector. A draft revision of the
Commercial Code, vith an implementation schedule, vill be prepared by
January 1, 1991. The entry into operation of the commercial tribunals, whose



- 43 -                                ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
creation is already provided for by existing legislation, vill also be
expedited vith a view to improving compliance vith contractual obligations.
Law No. 88-38 of April 5, 1988, setting up the coammercial tribunals, has
already defined their taaks and functions, composition and operations. Law
No. 88-4 of April 5, 1988 created the comuercial tribunals of Kayes, Bamako
and Mopti. Lastly, Decree No. 147 of May 30, 1988 laid down the election
procedures and eligibility requirements for members of the commercial
tribunal,. The tribunals vill be set up and become operational by March 1,
1991. The newly-created administrative tribunals, the Higher Committee on
Customs Tariffs (Comité Supérieur des Tarifs de Douanes) and the national
commission provided for in Article 178 of the Tax Code, before which operators
may appeal administrative, fiscal and customs decisions, vill become
operational as of March 1, 1991.
12.         With respect to labrr market regulation, the Labor Code and other
employment regulations will be àevised to make hiring and firing procedures
more flexible.  In particular, the ONMOE hiring monopoly vill be abolished as
of October 15, 1990, and a revised Labor Code is nov being drafted. The
revised Code vill become effective on January 1, 1991, at the latest. The new
Code vill be evaluated by January 1, 1992, so that the experience already
gained can be drawn upon to identify any new amendments that need to be made
to this legislation.
External trade
13.         All the legislative provisions adopted in 1989 on the automatic
grant of import and export authori-ations and on the abolition of import
quotas have been effectively applild since December 1989. In order to make
the procedures more flexible, an -taluation of one-step vindow (guichet
unique) operations vas undertakt&. in March 1990, and the revised procedures
vill be applied starting October 1, 1990.
14.         With respect to duty and taxes on external trade, a major reform
is under way to simplify the present system, reduce distortions penalizing
exports, and reduce disparities in the rates of protection accorded the
different economic activities. To this end, all export taxes, including the
CPS on exports, vill be abolished by October 31, 1990. With respect to import
taxes, the folloving measures, approved in Council of Ministers on September
12, 1990, will be submitted to the next session of the National Assembly, and
effectively applied starting January 1, 1991: discontinuation of all valeurs
mercuriales and valeurs barêmes, except the valeurs mercuriales on petroleum
products; abolition of the OSP tax, the Mining Fund tax, the Petrostock tax
and the TIC (domestic fuel tax); changes in DFI (fiscal import tax) rates,
limiting their number to three (02 for exempted products, 10Z on special
products, capital goods and intermediate inputs, and 252 on all other
products); levying of the ISCP (excise tax) on the folloving productss sodas,
alcoholic beverages, tobacco, cigarettes, salt, cartridges, vehicles, and
petroleum products; introduction of a degressive protection tax (TDP), not to
exceed 402, which vill be reduced by 102 each year, and thus disappear at the
end of four years. Application of the TDP will be strictly limited to the
folloving productst flour, palm oil, household soap, plastic bags, bottles,
embroideries, khaki and printed fabrics, packing sacks, tin basins,



- 44 -                               ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
galvanized buckets, household articles, batteries, pastas. biscuits, plasters
and matches. A variable import tax (tas conjoncturelle à l'importation), tied
to vorld price fluctuations, vill be introduced for rice and sugar.
Budget restructuring
15.         The Government intends to continue its efforts to curtail the role
of the public sector in the economy, while making it more effective through
restructuring of the State budget. A rigorous expenditure policy vill be
pursued vith a view to continuing to improve the expenditure structure of the
State budget. A reduction in the relative share of the vage bill is planned.
16.         The Government has already adopted and started to implement a
policy for reducing the size of the civil service through outright elimination
of administrative structures that have already been identified. It has also
adopted the cadres organiques for the public services. Implementation of these
cadres organiques has identified an estimated surplus of over 8,000 employees
in all categories. Also, in order to improve overall administrative
efficiency, the Goverranent vill allocate sufficient funds to the areas of
education, health, and current maintenance of the road system.
17.         The vage bill vill thus be held down during the period 1990-92 to
its 1989 level (CFAF 40 billion). During this same period it is proposed to
reduce the number of government vorkers in all categories appearing in the
database of the Central Payroll Office (BCS) and paid out of the State budget
from 42,387 at May 1, 1990 to 40,000 by March 31, 1991, 36,000 by March 31,
1992, and 34,000 by December 31, 1992, through an expanded voluntary departure
program and strict enforcement of the rules governing civil service personnel
management. In order to better handle vage expenditure and monitor staff
cuts, the processing of vage data has been computerized at the BCS since
May 1, 1990, and the definitive transfer of the data processing took place on
July 1, 1990.
18.         These measures viil make it possible to increase expenditure on
equipment, including school supplies, reclassified under mequipment' as of the
1992 budget, to CFAF 7.6 billion in 1990 (11Z of recurrent expenditures), at
least 12.52 of recurrent expenditures in 1991, and at least 142 in 1992. To
ensure adequate allocations to the social sectors, education expenditure,
including charges communes, totaled CFA? 17.1 billion in 1990, and will be
held at a minimum of 252 of recurrent expenditures in 1991 and 1992. In the
same way, health expenditures, including charges commwnes, vill increase from
6.62 of recurrent expenditures (CFAF 4.5 billion in 1990) to at least 7.32 of
recurrent expenditures in 1991, and at least 82 of recurrent expenditures in
1992. An internal reallocation of education expenditure is already in
progress vithin the framevork of the Education Sector Adjustment Program
(PASED) and vill be continued for the health sector under an IDA project nov
in course of preparation. These internal reallocations vill make it possible
to increase enrollments in the basic cycle and expand basic health services to
reach a larger proportion of the population. The Government vill earmark at
least CFAF 3 billion in its 1991 budget for the National Department of Public
Vorks. Being avare of how vital it is to keep the infrastructures essential
to economic activity in good condition, the Government vill send the Vorld



- 45 -                               MINEK Il
Page 7 of 18
Bank by October 31, 1990 a transportation sector policy letter which vill,
inter alia, specify the allocations for current maintenance of the road
network. The Government intends to set up a cost accounting system at the
National Department of Public Works, to provide reliable information
concerning all the vorks executed by the National and Regional Public Works
Departments and related services. This cost accounting system, to be in place
by March 31, 1991, vill enable the Government to verify that the above-
mentioned allocations have actually been spent on current road maintenance.
The Government vill monitor expenditure in the above-mentioned categories on a
monthly basis, vith a view to making any necessary adjustments in order to
restructure expenditures as planned. To this end, it vill send the monthly
budgetary execution statements to the World Bank vithin 60 days folloving the
end of each month. An action plan for consolidation of the annexed budgets
and the special funds, except for the INPS and FNL, vas prepared on July 25,
1990. This means that ONT, the Road Fund, the Mining Fund, the National
Forestry Fund, the Tourism Development Fund, and the CAA vill be incorporated
into the 1991 budget. With respect to the ORSP, its status vill be determined
on the basis of the study on revision of the petroleum sector taxation system.
A study vill be conducted on the future statua of the INRSP, LONAMA and LCV,
its findings to be made known by June 30, 1991 at the latest.
Civil service reform
19.         Reform of the civil service is an essential prerequisite for the
achievement of greater effectiveness vithin the government and lmproved
resource utilization. The action plan drawn up for this purpose focuses on
three principal areas: institutional reform, the expanded voluntary departure
program, and rationalized vage bill management.
20.         The institutional aspect has two closely linked componentss
reduction in the number and size of administrative structures and application
of the cadres organiques. The program to reduce the number and size of
administrative structures vas launched by circular letter of the President of
the Republic on December 6, 1989. This program provides for the outright
elimination of structures whose functions do not correspond to current policy
requirements, and the merger of others with similar or mutually complementary
functions. Its effective application vas completed on September 1, 1990. The
Government will finish adopting the cadres organiques of all the ministries by
``October 15, 1990. These vill ensure greater compatibility betveen the tasks
and functions of the ministerial departments and the number and qualifications
of the staff assigned to them. Their implementation, including redeployment,
vill be launched by circular letter of the Mlnistry of Employment and the
Civil Service by October 31, 1990, at the latest and vill be completed by
December 31, 1991. As mentioned above, this restructuring has identified over
8,000 surplus staff. Those surplus employees vill ail be made available to
the Ministry of Employment and the Civil Service by December 31, 1990. In
parallel, the organization of the professional qualification examinations vill
make it possible to ensure that the profiles of vorkers remaining in the civil
service match vith the qualifications required by the general civil service
regulations. Government vorkers affected by the restructuring andlor failing
the examinations may apply for voluntary departure.



- 46 -                                ANNEX Il
Page 8 of 18
21.         In order to make the administrative structures less cumbersome and
increase the efficiency of public service organiza-ion and management, an
expanded voluntary departure program was adopted in Council of Ministers on
August 1, 1990. The program aims to reduce the size of the vage bill in the
State budget and to improve government performance. It vill involve the
voluntary departure of around 8,200 government employees, comprising 1,700
civil servants and 6,500 conventionnaires (contractual employees). All civil
servants vith at least five years of service and over five years to go before
reaching retirement age vill be eligible for the program, except for
statisticians, data processors, teachers in the first cycle of basic
education, and members of the medical and paramedical corps, whose eligibility
vill be subject to the demands of the sector programs. Legislation concerning
implementation of the voluntary departure program vill be enacted by
October 31, 1990 at the latest.
22.         The present program is based on the experiences of the first
voluntary departure program executed with the financial support of the United
States Government. It retains the first program's structure of incentives for
civil servants, and introduces a new component for conventionnaires. It
maintains the mechanisms of the first program, designed to make bank credit
accessible to voluntary departees to enable them to finance their private
business ventures. It provides for a supplemenLary component to train
potential pramoters. Particular importance is accorded to providing
assistance to the promoter and placing him in touch vith the networks for
setting up businesses, thereby giving him the greatest possible number of
chances and advantages to enable him to succeed. The incentives consist of a
departure premium for all departees, and, for departing civil servants, either
reimbursement of pension contributions or maintenance of pension rights
<sécurisation de la retraite).   The basic aim of the premium is to provide a
voluntary departee with the minimum capital needed to support his efforts to
set himself up in the private sector. The premiums vill be CFAF 4 million for
Category A civil servants, CFAF 2.5 million for those in Category B,
CFAF 1.7 million for those in Category C, and, for conventionnaires, CFAF 2.4
million for Categories 10 and Il and persons receiving similar treatment
(assimilés), CFAF 1.5 million for Categories 8 and 9, and CFAF 1 million for
Categories 5-7. Departees signing up for the program by January 31, 1991 vill
have the right to the entire premium, those who sign up between February 1,
1991 and June 30, 1991, vill receive a premium reduced by 20Z, and those
joining after June 30, 1991 vill receive a premium reduced by 40S.  Civil
servants not retained in the cadres organiques and not redeployed after
December 31, 1991, may benefit from the full premium if they join before
March 1, 1992. After that date, their premium vill be reduced by 40Z. The
total cost of the premiums is estimated at CFAF 10.5 billion. Departing civil
servants vith less than 15 years of effective service vill be reimbursed for
all contributions paid on their behalf into the CRM during their period of
service. Departing civil servants with 15 years or more of effective service
vill have their pension rights maintained in the CRM. An annual subsidy
representing those contributions vill be included in the budget each year and
paid into the CRM. A preparation and training fund vill be set up to help
prepare departees for insertion into the private production sector. This
fund, totaling CFA! 325 million, vill cover 802 of the costs of training, up
to a maximum of CFA! 250,000 per departee, and 50Z of project preparation



- 47 -                                AEII
Page 9 of 18
costs, up to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 per departee, the balance being
financed by the participants.  These amouats may be cumulative in the case of
association, covering 802 and 50S of the costs, respectively, of training and
project preparation. A guarantee fund vill be set up, to cover 50Z of the
commercial risk on the principal amount of loans granted to voluntary
departees by local commercial banks. Allocations to this fund may not exceed
CFAF 1.5 billion. It will initially be set up vith CFAF 500 million, and vill
be replenished when commitments exceed 902 of the allocation. A description
of the procedures for coordinating the reinsertion program, disseminating
information, arranging contacts with the appropriate institutions (SHEISMI
unit of the ACDI, the EDF, the FAC, etc.), and managing the above-mentioned
fund vill be sent to the World Bank for its opinion by October 15, 1990.
23.         A study on reform of the remuneration system for Gaverument
employees is also planned. This study vill pay particular attention to the
present system of salary advancements (avancements), bonuses and compensation.
The possibility of instituting performance bonuses vill also be examined, with
a view to establishing a closer link between vage increases and staff
performance. The terms of reference for the study vill be approved by
November 1, 1990 at the latest, and reform proposals and an implementation
schedule vill be fcrmulated by April 1, 1991.
24.         The administrative side of personnel management vill be lmproved
through compu -ization of data and procedures. The first step in this
direction vil. Je ensure that inputting and verification of the data gathered
during the 1989 census are completed by April 1, 1991, and that the contents
of the database thus created are compared vith the BCS database. Precise
procedures have been prepared for updating the database, and vill be applied
pending entry into service of the new system, to be developed between
January 1, 1991 and August 31, 1993 for the last applications. An inventory
vith physical checks vill provide definitive validation of the contents of the
civil service database before new applications are launched, and systematic
periodic checks vill subsequently ensure their reliability.
Fiscal reform
25.         The goals of the fiscal reforms planned for the period 1990-92 are
*to reduce the distortions created by the present system, expand the tax base,
increase the elasticity of the fiscal system, and improve distribution of the
tax burden. To this end, it is proposed to abolish export taxes and
rationalize import taxes (see above), to replace the IAS (tax on goods and
services) by a VAT, starting January 1, 1991, and to make preparations for the
introduction of a single personal income tax and business profits tax in 1992.
The draft law on this new tax should be prepared by June 1, 1991. A study
vill be launched by March 1, 1992 to identify suitable tax measures for the
informal sector, particularly vith a view to gradually achieving broader
application of the VAT. In addition, a study of the present hydrocarbon
taxation and pricing policy is to be carried out by November 1, 1990, to
examine the advisability of replacing the parafiscal revenue from the
différence sur structures by another system of taxation, and to allow domestic
prices to fluctuate in step vith vorld market prices and forvarding costs
<frais d'approche) in the different regions. The results of this study vill



- 48 -                                ANNM  II
rage 10 of 18
be available by January 1, 1991, and the reform proposals, agreed between the
Malian Government, the World Bank and the IMF, vill be accompanied by an
implementation schedule and approved by March 1, 1991. During December, 1990,
the Government vill complete the revision of the Investment Code, in
collaboration with the World Bank, vith a view to preparation of a draft
revised Code by January 31, 1991.
Three-year program anJ special investment budget (BSI)
26.         The 1990-92 three-year investment program vas approved in December
1989. The goal of the program is to bring public investment up to
approximately CFAF 264 billion over the three-yea- period, or 12.4Z of GDP
over the same period. Priority is given to the agricultural sector, which
vould absorb 40Z of expenditure, and to rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, which vould absorb 302. Emphasis vill continue to be placed
on obtaining external financing in the form of grants or highly concessional
'oans. The Government, in consultation vith the World Bank, vill continue to
prepare the revised three-year program and the annual BSI by December 1 of
each year, taking account of sectoral priorities and the macroeconomic goals
of the medium-term program. The Government vill continue to strengthen its
capacities in the areas of project identification, appraisal and selection.
Particular emphas.s vill be placed on appraisal and selection of projecte in
light of their economic viability and conformity vith macroeconomic goals,
also taking account of their impact in terms of debt service and recurrent
costs. A feasibility study demonstrating economic and financial viability
vill thus be required for every new project costing more than CFAP 1 billion,
starting vith BSI 1991. The selection criteria for the social sectors, where
projects are not justified solely on the basis of rate of return, a parameter
in any case difficult to assess, vill be defined by January 1, 1991. Measures
vill also be taken to strengthen monitoring of execution of the investment
budget and to ensure consistency of the data available to the Ministry of
Finance and Commerce and the Ministry of Planning in this area. Measures vill
also be taken to improve the procedures aet up in 1989, vith a view to making
all of the BSI subject to appropriate budgetary and spending control rules.
To this end, new monitoring and control measures vere set up on September 3,
1990.
Financial sector
27.         Restructuring of the BDM took place on July 1, 1989, and
restructuring of the CCP (postal checking system) vill be completed by
November 1, 1990 at the latest, vithin the framework of the PASEP. A study of
the financial sector, to be completed by March 1, 1991, vill identify actions
necessary to promote the development of a financial sector capable of meeting
the needs of the economy, particularly in connection vith the mobilization of
savings, financial intermediation, and medium and long-term credit. This
study vill take account of the reforms taking place vithin the UMOA.



- 49 -                               AMNX I
Page 11 of 18
Improvement of the statistical base
28.         The Government is of the opinion that the existence of reliable
and complete figures on the Malian economy le essential to sound economic and
financial management. It recognizes that the inadequacy of statistics on the
national accounts, budgetary and extrabudgetary data, the external debt, the
balance of payments and the employment market all represent a serious obstacle
to the implementation and effective monitoring of government policies. With
the Ministry of Planning serving as coordinator, each of the ministries
concerned has prepared an outline report on statistical problema. An action
plan to correct them, including the definition uf priorities and an
implementation timetable, vill be prepared by October 31, 1990. The
Secrétariat Général de la Présidence intends to examine this action plan and
to determine which measures are to be taken from January 1991 onvards to bring
about a noticeable improvement in the statistical base.
29.         In order to monitor the vellbeing of different categories of the
population, the Government proposes to set up a permanent system of household
surveys. This program is based on the experiences of the Consumption Budget
Survey and the Informal Sector Survey, the analysis of which will be completed
vithin the framevork of the proposed program. The permanent system of
household surveys vill be launched in early 1991, and the program vill allow
for the annual publication of a report on household living conditions in Mali.
The Minister for Finance and Trade
18/ Tiéna Coulibaly



- 50 -                                ANMX II
Page 12 of 18
MALIs Sumary of the Principal Neasures
of the 1990-92 Structural Adiustment Proaram
1.          Regulatory framework
1.1         Gradually eliminate price controls
1.1.1 Restrict controlled pricing to pharmaceutical and veterinary
products, petroleum products, urban passenger transportation and
international freight (January 1, 1990).
1.1.2 Restrict controlled pricing to petroleum products (January 1,
1991).
1.1.3 Study the replacement of price controls on petroleum products by a
revised system of taxation for those products (see 5.2).
1.2         Revise the Commercial Codes
1.2.1 Hake the commercial tribunals operational (Harch 1, 1991).
1.2.2 Draft an updated Commercial Code and implementation schedule
(January 1, 1991).
1.3         Make labor market procedures simpler and more flexible:
1.3.1 Abolish ONMOE's hiring monopoly (October 15, 1990).
1.3.2 Prepare a draft revision of the Labor Code to make firing
procedures more flexible (June 1, 1990).
1.3.3 Apply the revised Labor Code (January 1, 1991).
1.3.4 Evaluate the effects of this revised Labor Code with a view to
making it even more flexible (January 1, 1992).
2.          External trade
2.1         Enforce legislation on the automatic grant of import and export
authorizations and the abolition of import quotas (January 1,
1990).
2.2         Revoke Order No. 90-O19/MFC of January 9, 1990, establishing
specific provisions for certain imports (April 1, 1990).
2.3         Simplify import and export procedures:
2.3.1 Draw up a report on one-step vindov (guichet uniaue) operations
(May 1, 1990).
2.3.2 Institute revised prç.cedures (October 1, 1990).



- 51 -                                AUNEX IT
Page 13 of 18
2.4         Abolish export taxes, including the CPS on exports (October 31,
1990).
2.5         Abolish all valeurs mercuriales and valeurs barèmes on importa and
exports, except for valeurs mercuriales on petroleum products
(January 1, 1991).
2.6         Consolidate customs taxes and duties and reduce the number and
disparity of rates:
2.6.1 Prepare draft laws and implementing decrees designed to (June 1,
1990)s
-     Abolish the OSP (price stabilization fund) tax, incorporating it
into the DFI.
-     Abolish the Mining Fund tax and Petrostock tax.
-     Incorporate the TIC into the ISCP (excise tax) on petroleum
products.
-     Revise DFI rates, limiting their number to three (0Z for exempted
products; a reduced rate of 102 for special products, capital
goods and intermediate inputs; and an ordinary rate of 25Z for all
other products).
-     Revise the ISCP on the folloving products:  sodas, alcoholic
beverages, tobacco, cigarettes, vehicles, salt, cartridges,
petroleum products.
-     Introduce a degressive protection tax (TDP), set at a minimum of
40Z and decreasing annually by 102. The TDP will thus disappear
at the end of four years. It will affect only the following
products: flour, palm oil, household soap, plastic bags, bottles,
embroideries, khaki and printed fabrics, packing sacks, tin
basins, galvanized buckets, household articles, batteries,
pastas, biscuits, plasters and matches.
-     Introduce a variable import tax, affecting rice and sugar only.
2.6.2 Approve the draft laws and decrees in Council of Ministers
(September 12, 1990).
2.6.3 Implement the new lav (January 1, 1991).
3.          Budgetary restructurinR
3.1         Reduce the share of the vage bill in recurrent expendituress
3.1.1 Limit the nominal value of the vage bill during the period 1990-92
to its 1989 level (CFAF 40 billion) (1990-92).



- 52 -                                AUNEX II
Page 14 of 18
3.1.2 Assign to the Central Payroll Office the necessary personnel to
update the payroll database (April 1, 1990), and transfer
responsibility for the computerized processing of vage information
to the Central Payroll Office (parallel processing from May 1,
1990 and definitive processing from July 1, 1990).
3.1.3 Reduce the number of employees appearing in the payroll database
and paid out of the State budget from 42,387 at May 1, 1990 to
4C,000 at March 31, 1991, 36,000 at March 31, 1992, and 34,000 at
December 31, 1992 (see section 4 belov).
3.2         Increase the share of expenditure on equipment (1990-92)s
3.2.1 Increase expenditure on equipment (chapters 12 and 24.2) to
CFAF 7.6 billion in 1990 (112 of recurrent expenditures), at least
12.52 of recurrent expenditures in 1991, and at least 142 of
recurrent expenditures in 1992.
3.2.2 Transfer school supplies from Chapter 24.2 to the equipment
chapter, starting with the 1992 budget.
3.3         Ensure adequate allocations to the social sectors (1990-92):
3.3.1 Maintain the share of education expenditures, including CHARGES
COMMUNES, at a minimum of 25S of recurrent budgetary expenditures
during each year of the period 1990-92.
3.3.2 Increase health expenditures, including DANS LES CHARGES COMMUNES,
to CFAF 4.5 billion in 1990 (6.62 of recurrent expenditures), at
least 7.32 of recurrent expenditures in 1991, and at least 82 of
recurrent expenditures in 1992.
3.3.3 Increase road maintenance expenditures in conformity with the
transport policy letter.
3.4         Incorporate in the 1991 budget the ainexed budgets and the
folloving special fundss ONT, Road Pund, Mining Fund, National
Forestry Fund, Tourism Development Fund, and the CAA.
3.5         Carry out a study on the future status of the INRSP, LCV and
LONAMA (June 30, 1991).
4.          Restructuring of the civil service
4.1         Adopt the cadres organiques and the program to reduce the number
and size of the departmentss
4.1.1 Approve all of the cadres organiques (October 15, 1990) and the
restructuring program in Council of Ministers.
4.1.2 Implement the cadres organiques (October 31, 1990) and complete
the process of making surplus personnel available to the HEPP



- 53 -                               ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
(December 31, 1990) and assuring their redeployment (December 31,
1991).
4.2         Approve an expanded voluatary departure program ln Council of
Ministers (August 1, 1990):
4.2.1 Enact legislation relative to the voluntary departure program
(October 31, 1990).
4.2.2 Reduce the number of personnel paid out of the State budget by
around 8,200 (1,700 civil servants and 6,500 contractual staff).
4.2.3 At the time of their departure, pay a premium of CFAP 4 million
for Category A, CFAF 2.5 million for Category B, and
CFAP 1.7 million for Category C to civil servants joining the
program before January 31, 1991; a premium 202 lover for those
joining the program between February 1, 1991 and June 30, 1991,
and a premium reduced by 402 for those joining after June 30,
1991. Civil servants not retained vithin the cadres organiques
and not redeployed after December 31, 1991 will be entitled to the
entire premium if they join before March 1, 1992. After that
date, their premium vill be reduced by 40Z.
4.2.4 Reimburse departing civil servants with over 5 years and less than
15 years of effective service for all the contributions paid on
their behalf to the CRM during their period of service.
4.2.5 Maintain pension rights for departing civil servants with over 15
years of effective service and at least 5 years to go before
reaching retirement age, through periodic payments into the CaM of
the contributions that vould have been deducted on their behalf
until their retirement if they had remained in service.
4.2.6 At the time of their departure, pay a premium of CFAF 2.4 million
for Categories 10 and 11 and persons receiving similar treatment
(assimilés), CFAF 1.5 million for Categories 8 and 9, and
CFAF 1 million for Categories 5-7, for conventionnaires joining
the program by January 31, 1991; a premium 202 lover for those
joining between February 1, 1991 an4 June 30, 1991; and a premium
reduced by 402 for those joining after June 30, 1991.
4.2.7 Set up a project preparation and training fund, usable on a
voluntary basis, to cover a maximum of 802, up to CFAF 250,000 per
departee, of training costs, and a maximum of 502, up to
CFAF 250,000 per departee, of project preparation costs.
4.2.8 Set up a guarantee fund to cover 502 of the commercial risk on the
principal amount of loans granted to departees by local commercial
banks.
4.3         Review the government workers remuneration policy:



- 54 -                               ANNEX Il
Page 16 of 18
4.3.1 Approve the terms of reference for a study relative to reform of
the govervment vorkers remuneration policy (November 1, 1990).
4.3.2 Prepare reform proposals and an implementation schedule for
revision of the government workers remuneration policy (April 1,
1991).
4.4         Computerize the administrative side of personnel managements
4.4.1 Input and verify data from the 1989 survey by April 1, 1991 and
institute continuous updating of the new database.
4.4.2 Compare the database thus created with the BCS database by May 1,
1991, and correct any distortions noted.
4.4.3 Provide definitive validation of the civil service database
through inventory and physical check.
4.4.4 Develop and place in service the computerized system of personnel
administration.
5.          Fiscal reform
5.1         Replace the IAS by a VAT (January 1, 1991)>
5.2         Revise taxation of petroleum productst
5.2.1 Conduct a study on the present policy of petroleum product
taxation and pricing, with a viev to examining the advisability of
replacing the parafiscal revenue from the différence sur
structures by another system of taxation and permitting price
fluctuations in line with world prices and forvarding costs (frais
d'approche) in the different regions (November 1, 1991).
5.2.2 In line with the conclusions of the study, approve reform
proposals and the implementation schedule (March 1, 1991).
5.3         Revise the Investmert Code:
5.3.1 Complete the revision of the Investment Code (December 1990).
5.3.2 Prepare a draft law revising the Investment Code (January 31,
1991).
5.4         Introduce the single personal income tax and the single business
profits taxt
5.4.1 Prepare the draft laws (June 1, 1991).
5.4.2 Approve the draft laws in Council of Ministers (January 1, 1992).



- 55 -                                ANNEX Il
Page 17 of 18
5.5         Carry out a study to identify appropriate tax measures for the
informal sector, to facilitate progress toward broader application
of the VAT (March 1, 1992).
6.          Three-year program and special investment budget (BSI)
6.1         Approve the three-year program and the annual BSI following
consultation with the Uorld Bank (December 1990, December 1991).
6.2         Improve the selection of projectu included iu the three-year
program and the BSI by introducing economic and financial
selection criterias
6.2.1 Require a feasibility study demonstrating economic and financial
viability, including the impact of the project on recurrent
expenditures and on debt service, for every new project vhose
total cost exceeds CFAF 1 billion, starting vith BSI 1991, and
establish criteria for the social sectors by January 1, 1991.
6.2.2 Strengthen the project identification and appraisal capacities of
the DNP (National Planning Department) and technical ministries
(1990-92).
6.3         Improve monltoring of execution of the BSIs
6.3.1 Prepare a proposal for revieving current monitoring procedures
folloving consultation between the DNP, DNB (National Budget
Department) and CAA and the technical ministries and donors
(May 1, 1990).
6.3.2 Implement the new procedures (September 3, 1990).
7.          External debt
7.1         Submit all withdravals against loans contracted or guaranteed by
the Government to prior authorization by the MFC, and report on
all such withdrawals to the CAA.
7.2         Channel through the CAA all payments made on the external debt
owed or guaranteed by the Government.
7.3         Consolidate the CAA's computerized debt management system.
7.4         Refrain from contracting or guaranteeing any neo  nonconcessional
loans, except for normal short-term import credits, and debt
rescheduling and refinancing.
7.5         Revise the loan guarantee policy of public and mixed-capital
enterprises.
8.          Improvement of statistics



- 56 -                               ANU    II
Page 18 of 18
8.1         In each ministry. prepare detailed reports on problems encouatered
in the statistical area, as vell as a remedial action plan
specifying the techical assistance requireds
8.1.1 Submit reports to the Secrétariat Général de la Présidence
(October 31, 1990).
8.1.2 Apply corrective measures proposed by the Secrétariat Général de
la Présidence (Jsanuary 1, 1991).
8.2         Establishment of a permanent *sytem of household surveys.



-  57  -                                       ANE  M
1t - 1 t 4
MAL!: SIRUcTAL ADJUSTMEf  CREDIT (SLL D: POLICY MATRIX
Flret oUecl;tiv   Stimults  prive  sec"tr dsv.lopasnt through reforme la trade policles md
taxation end en aropralt. raulteory environnent.
Pat Ad 3ustasut Effort.           Action Progra»                    Sehdule
1.  Tred  Poltlcln.
Ell-tnation of «batlte-           a)  Ellminat. *il                 IUplmnted April 1, 1990.
tlve r.strlctions on 10           quantitative restrictions
produ¢te (IRq-.                   to trelo
Ell-tntiton of  ort               b)  Replace export end             Upl.nted Jxnuery 1,
monosoltes (1986).                l.port Ilcenclng syea             1990.
*tth rNeitratton *yst..
Eitilnmtton of itar
Onooollo weith exception
of ¢igrettes end
Pharmac¢uti¢cas (198).
Estabiub..nt of on  -eto          c)   Siupilfy procodures          October 1, 1990 (Çonjd.ion
sindow for *il a;d.nrm -          for one-stop window.              fr Board Pronentationl
i ve proo.dur.« r.garding
luporting end exporting.
Reduction of ad hoc               d)   Improve duty col lac-        January 1, 1991.
fx_ tions (1909).                 tilon through taxation of
Importe on basis of actuel
HNirin  of International          valu.e end i.proved
Ttr for erht_!!t                  vYrIficatlon of custos
v.riftcatTon of importe           valuation.
e)   Ellinate export              October a1, 1990
taxe.                             !Condition for Board
f)   Reduce th. number of         Approved Sept. 12, 1990
teort dutle «*nd taxes,           for Application stmrting
r_duce the number end dts-       Jnnuery 1, 1991 (Cqnditton
porlty of rats«, replace           or Second
*1i *pDctflc tartffs by ad
valore. tariffs.
2    Tax Polces«.
Unifiction of the  AS on          a)   Introduce VAT to             January 1, 1941 (CondItIon
Importe end donoettc              r place IAS.                      for Scond Tronche)
production (196).
Reduction of bueinese             b) - Draft proposal for           Jun  1, 1991.
l come tax fro  SS teo            revislon of permonal
45;, reductton of payroll         Incoas end profit tex;
tex fro  165 te 7.65                 - approve personal             January 1, 1992 (Con4i!ton
(19^).                            t _ncom  end prof t tex           for Thard Trn
reforo end impl.esntation
echedule.
c)   Approve mroloum              March 1, 1991.
taxationD ricTinj fo-r
and  ii --ntation
ochedule.
Promulgation of n                 d)  Revise Investaint             Januéry 81, 1991.
Invoutmont Cod  (196).            code.
e)   Complote study on            March 1, 191.
taxation of Informal
secor.



-  58 -                                        AN*EX II
Page 2 of 4
8. Reosalatoriv Pelicies.
Reduction of nuaber of            *) - Abolluh pr1ce con-
producte subject to orle          trois with excepqton of           Imple.snt.d January 1,
controle   f rom C8 ina lIT       tour eseential end                1990.
Io u9m9).                         straetégc producte.
- Liait price controls
to petroloua producte             Jenuary 1, 1991 <Cp,ndItion
only.                              or S<con  Tranche
Promulgation of a nm              c) - Draft update of
Commercial Code (1980);           conerciel code;                   Jnnuary 1, 1991.
creation of comrcial                 - "ke commercial
courte la throe c1tle«;           courte operatlonnl.               Uarch 1, lu1.
establishment of soctoral
one -btp window for
cretilon of new
*oterpriee. (1989).
Study of labor aarket             d) - Abolieh ONYOE hiring
regulations.                       onopoly;                         October 1C, 190
tCondition l'or 000rd
- draft proposai for           Pr  ntationl;
rovision of labor code;           June 1, 1990;
- eppiy roviTs  T1nor
Code;                             Jnnuary 1, 1991 (Condition
- msosue   rovislon end         or Second Tr n    ;
propose furthr
improvme_te.                      January 1, 1992.
S cond objoetive:Inprove off lclncy of the public  sector through reetructuring of curroot
eixlur, civil service refora, end botter programing end monitoring of developent
expenditure.
Cu ren~t x»;:re:
tlnatinlng of 1989 saso           a)   Reduce relative *liz         Agressent on 1991 end 192
bil .et 1988 leval by:            of  age blil la current           budgets (Condition for
-  Tllating hiring,               government expenditure by         Second and Thied Tnnch,
- encouragIng voluntery           aintalning nominal lovel           respecl;v ly).
deprturn,                         of 1990-92 wage bill et
-  fre«Ing àutoaatic              1989 level end roducing
rret increasme, end               governmnt personnel (.0
-  granting ne  coot of           6 b).
living adjustante.
Reductlon In *cholorehil          b)   Incrse shares of             Agr_sst on 1991 end 19
xnditue.                          current expenditure for             (dndlelot.        for
motarial teO 12.8  la 1991        Second end Third Trnche,
end 14% la 1992.                  repoctlvely).
c)  Assure adequate               Agressent on 1991 end 1992
budoti allocatton* for             hetn  !Coniltion for
eduction end hulth                Second *nd Third tronhe,
sectors:r«pctivaly).
- aInteiu shore of
education expenditure ln
current expendIture et
alnimu of 2SX;
- raise ehare of heélth
expenditure la current
expendItur. to 7.8% In
1991 end 8.0% le 1992.



-  59  -                                         AJIIE  III
- Increas. expendlture
for routine road
aintanance
d)   Transfer Ulnistry of          Starting cith 1992 bod.
Education expenditure on
didâctlc aterial *from
budgt chapter *sttpend
to thet of *mtortal.
a)   Consolidat. 4 *nn.xed         StértIng vtth 1991 budgt.
lnt eralon of ennexd               budgets end  p ectal fund
*gMI   nd *oRcEnl-fuûn         with g norel budget
1  over     bud - 
preson   Ion (1988).               f)   Complet. study on             June 80, 1991.
future statue of 8
additionaI enn xod
budgets.
S.   Civil Service Rdfor.
Halting of automtie                a) - Approve Ocadres               October 1S, 1990 end
r erult_not into th- civil         orgqntquesm  na      r pg          Sopteer S, 1990,
service (198).                     trduce number *ndosize             ropectively;
of vowernment *senctes'
- apply *ffectiveiy;            October 81, 1990
(Condltton for Soerd
-erontetlo2);
- complete transfer of          De br a      1990;
redundant personnel to
-lvil service uinistry;
- comploet  r.deploym.nt        Docember 81, 1991.
of civil servante.
I1  Ientetion of                   b) - Approve Voluntary             Auguet 1, 1990;
voluntry dber rture                paetur  Prosram;
OoI   of ou4a civil                   - publish texts to              October 31  1990;
servent  (1987-U9).                implement program;
- roduce Covernuent
personnel by *bout 8200
<1700 fonctionnaires end
3SO0 conventionnalrs) to:
40.000 by March 81, 1991;          Condition for Second
Tranche;
86,000 by March S1  1992;          Condition for Third
Tranche.
and 84,000 by Decomber a1,
1992.
c)  - Computerlze Civil            1990-92;
Service Directorate
e                                      (DFPP);
- verify recuits of            April 1, 1991;
1989 census;
- check resulta                May 1, 1991.
agatnet payroll data.
d)  - Approve torme of             Noveber 1, 1990.
roference for study on
remuneratlon DO lics;
-  gre  on r for.           April 1, 1991.
neosures and
Implementation echodulo.



-  60  -                                          1     
Prt-4  ëf 4
O. !r,twuao
Praprsion ot                       s 4)  Improve proJ.ct             Are_.     on lm9  suW l
relinsn aublic 1 a                sloction                           tInvestu.  budgetc, sd
i__d. tues                            - prepre  ealbill ty           19M1-98 end I19 4-W
b1cm»u (et c.s tudy fer proJ.cs sbow.    I                 ntaeu  progr_
CFPF 1 blltles                     (Cend s fer s_eo   s
Third Trenchs,-
r_pectivly);
Iut grtleon oft lnv.                  - es* bilth erlt rlt           Jssusry 1, 19lm;
budg   lote rsgulsr  ude.         for proJet *eleote
<19 ).                            teclil seors;
- *trengthm   loctton         1990#2.
c=p ty oft NntOonus
PisasIng Dlr.ctorste end
techutoalc .ltobrT.
b)   Strngthb.n project           S _pt er 8, 1990.
ealtortsg by ee*ablithtng
cler procedures.
7.     StatTtèiclI
rovmw_ui end
doaltorins of Socnle
ZnploIust.tIon et                 *)  IUplme_t plon of               Janusry 1, 199l .
_oueld expnditure snd             actIon for strongth.tsg
nformel eector  ur.               ot etattTc l services.
b)  Etbiltsh per nusnt            StsrtTns 1991.
household survsy progra



- 61 -                                ANNEX IV
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Processing Events
a) Time taken to prepare credits          Two years
b) Credit prepared by:                    Ninistry of Finance and Commerce
c) First IDA missiont                     July 1988
d) Departure of appraisal mission:       March 1990
e) Negotiations completed:                October 1990
f) Planned date of effectiveness:         February 1991



- 62 -                                     A»EX V
REPUBUC OF MAU
STATUS 0F SMNK OPERAlTTNS
T. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of S.ptsber 1990)
Crndit  IDA Fiscal                                                  Amount leso
Number   Yar              Purpos.                                   Cancel lations    Undl1buroed
-                           ----(US$ illon)
Twenty .Ight credits fully d'aburs.d                                    254.7
F070-MLI   1984            Rural Water Supply                             1.8               1.8
FOlO-MU   1984             Tbird Education                                4.9               0.2
1408-LU   1984             siows. Alcohol & Enory                         7.6               1.0
1416-MU   1984             Second Mail-Sud Rural Develop_ut              26.9               0.8
1422-MU   1984             Hbolth DOvelopmnt                             1S.7               2.8
1431-MU   1984             Rural Watar Supply                             4.6               0.1
1597-MU  18m              Moptl Area D.valop.on¶                        19.5              14.9
1629-MU   1986             Flfth Hlghway                                 48.ô              29.1
1664-MU   1186             Second Forestry                                6.8               1.0
1677-ULI   198             Second Urban                                  28.0              11.0
A036^UL   1188             Offleo Du Niger Consolidation                  9.0               9.0
1906-wU   1988             Offioc Du Niger Consolidation                 89.8              89.8
1987-MU   1988             Public Ent-rprlse Sector AdJ uwtent           40.0              12.2
1988-ML    1988            Pubitc EnterprIse InstitutionaI Dev.           9.6               S.1
1998-MLI   1989            Second Pover                                  88.0              80.7
2054-MU   1989             EducatIon Sector Consolidation                28.0              25.1
2168-MU   1990             Agrieultural Sector                           sa.0              48.0
Total:                                       ^31.4             280.W
of which rep.td                             10.4
Tote1 h ld by IDA:                           628.0
XI. SUMWARY 3TATEMENT OF IFC MNVESTiMENTS (as of Septbeber 80, 1990)
Loan
Number  Yoer    Obligor                  Type of Business               Loan   Equtty   Total
---- - - --- - - ~~~~~-                                   (U   Mill I1lon)-
40V-MU  1978    Soclete Mado             Generel                         0.6      0.0      0.ô
Sade tolofo et          Lanufacturng
Freres (SOMACI)
612-MLI  1982   Solelt  Industrlol la   Sheanut                          1.9      0.5      2.8
de Karîte du Mail       Procoeolng
(SM)
Total Gros. Coitment*                                   2.6      0.6      2.9
Lese Canoellations, wrlte-off. end rqpuycento:          2.6      0.6      2.9
Total Co_ituente held by IFC:                           0.0      0.0      0.0
(o) IDA Credîts *re denominated In Specll Drawing Rlght. The *Aoount les. Concellatlons  coluan
shows th  dollar equlvalnt et the tie  of credit negotlatlons.  The  UdlsburedO column
*hoos th dollar equlvalent au of September 80,1990.



- 63 -                                ANNEX VI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
1.        Coordination of Structural Adiustment Program:  Ministry of
Finance and Commerce.
2.        Trade and Tax Reforms:  Ministry of Finance and Commerce.
Before the implementation of the VAT and tariff reform, and as part of SAL
I preparation, civil servants in the departments concerned would be trained
to familiarize themselves with the principles of the nev tax system.
3.        Civil Service Computerization: Ministry of Employment and Civil
Service. To improve the administrative management of the civil service,
all available data on civil servants vill be computerized in the Direction
Nationale de la Fonction Publique.
4.        Voluntary Departure ProRram: Ministry of Employment and Civil
Service. A structure will be established in the Ministry of Employment and
Civil Service to manage the voluntary departure program and inform and
advise leaving civil servants on employment and training possib lities.
5.        Monitoring of Social Indicators of Development:  Ministry of
Plan. The Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique vill
be equièped to carry out the analysis of data collected in household
surveys and to establish a permanent household survey program.



MAU                                                .X             N.
t~~~_                       AA|"                                                       GER_ IA
_'2iwaXR!-   XV*_                t               -.s
IOUTN                                                     t  G E R '  A
_4._s A                          |         `,*-~                        '         j *~
-~~ |.                                                 t        'Ut*                      i
T 
. ErEr$, ~~A               t                           .j            ..
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f~~3 ig  e  eS W2N F
t  G u             <t                 '-w_- _  \     GHANARS      OGR
r~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -------
BURIGNA FASOMURTANA 
'n                                                                                       t  MAU
G U 1 N E A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i)N~C 
i   -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~~~~ 4 L  ~~~~~H  A N A      0 
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
CÔTE D'                           0~~~4



