Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15644
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
May 20, 1996
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 (1989)  =      CFAF 319.0
US$ 1.00 (1990)  =      CFAF 272.3
US$ 1.00 (1994)  =      CFAF 555.2
US$ 1.00 (1995)  =      CFAF 499.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                   US Equivalent
I meter (m)               =              3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)          =              0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)    =            0.39 square miles (sq. mi)
I metric ton (t)          =              2,205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (kg)           =              2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADIT        Avance sur divers impots et taxes (Advance on various taxes)
BCS         Bureau Central de la Solde (Central Payroll Office)
BSI         Budget special d'investissement (Special investment budget)
CIF         Cost, Insurance and Freight
CFA         Communaute Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CFAF        CFA Franc
DFI         Droitfiscal a I 'importation (Fiscal import tax)
DNFPP       Direction Nationale de la Fonction Publique et du Personnel (Civil Service Directorate)
DNP         Direction A'ationale de la Planification (National Planning Directorate)
DNSI        Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de I 'Informatique (National Statistics Directorate)
ERC         Economic Reco-very Credit
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IAS         Imp6t sur les affaires et services (Tax on goods and services)
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetarv Fund
INRSP       Institut Nationale de la Recherche en Sante Publique (National Public Health Research
Institute)
LCV         Laboratoire Central Vetrinaire (Veterinary Laboratory)
LONAMA   Loterie Nationale du Mali (National Lottery Company)
ONAP        Office National des Produits Pdtroliers (National Office of Petroleum Products)
ONMOE    Office National de la Main d'Oeuvre et de I 'Emploi (National Labor and Employment
Office)
OSRP        Office de Stabilisation et de Regulation des Prix (Price Stabilization and Regulation Office)
PFP         Policv Framework Paper
PPF         Project Preparation Fund
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TA          Technical Assistance
TCI         Taxe conjoncturelle a l 'importation (Variable import tax)
TDP         Taxe degressive de protection (Declining protection tax)
TIC         Taxe interieure sur les carburants (Parafiscal tax on petroleum products)
TPS         Taxe de prestations sur le service (Special tax on services)
VAT         Value-Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ....................................................i
Program Objectives ....................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ..................................................ii
Key Lessons Learned ....................................................iii
PART I -- PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. Background   1..
II. Program Objectives and Design                           ..                                             2
m1.  Achievement of Program Objectives                                                                     3
A. Improving the Economic Incentives System                                                      4
B. Improving Public Resources Management.                                                        6
C.  Improving Statistics and Monitoring of Poverty Indicators..                                  9
IV.   Important Factors Affecting the Program                    .......................................   9
V.    Sustainability of Results               ...................................................         10
VI.   Bank performance               ............................     .......................              10
VII. Borrower Performance ............................1.......................                            I 
VIII. Assessment of the Outcome    ...................................................                     12
IX.   Adjustment Operations After SAL I ..............................................                    12
X.    Main lessons ...................................................                                    12
PART II-- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table I  : Summary of Assessments ...................................................                     14
Table 2   Related IDA  Loans/Credits ...................................................                  15
Table 3   Program  Timetable .....................,.,,....................                                16
Table 4   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......                                   16
Table 5  : Key Indicators for Program  Operation ...................... ..............                    17
Table 6: Studies Included in the Program  .............................................                   20
Table 7  :Program  Financing ....................,.,,.,.,..........                                       20
Table 8  : Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                   21
Table 9  : IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs .               ,       ....................                      22
Table 10: IDA  Resources: Missions   ..................................................                   22
APPENDDXES
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B. Map of Mali
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL I)
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I)
for Mali (SDR 50.3 million, equivalent to US$70 million) which was approved by the Banks Executive
Board on December 11, 1990 and became effective on March 15, 1991. The credit was closed on June
1995, two years later than the original closing date.
2.    This credit had two components: a quick-disbursing component of SDR 47.5 million to be disbursed
in three tranches and a technical assistance component of SDR 2.5 million. In addition, the credit financed a
Project Preparation Fund (PPF) of SDR 0.3 million. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully
disbursed by March 1991. Release of the second and third tranches was approved in December 1992 and
January 1994 respectively, and the credit was filly disbursed by December 1995.
3.i.    Cofinancing totaling US$ 70 million equivalent was granted by the German, Dutch, Swiss and
Norwegian Governments, the European Union and the African Development Bank. In additon, several
other bilateral donors (France, the United States and Canada, in particular) supported the program through
the provision of budgetary assistance. The IMF supported Mali's structural adjustment program over the
1991-93 period by a first annual agreement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of
SDR 20.32 million, approved in August 1992.
4.     This report was prepared by Fabien Nsengiyumva of the Country Operations Division of the
Westem African Department (AF5), and reviewed by William Cooper (consultant), Victoria Kwakwa
(Country Economist), Hasan Tuluy (Principal Country Officer), Birger Fredriksen (Division Chief), and
Fran,ois Laporte (Lead Economist). Preparation began during a Bank completion mission in August 1995
and is based on information contained in project files and on discussions with Malian officials who
participated in the formulation and/or implementation of the program. The borrower prepared its own
evaluation of the project's execution and achievements and made comments on the draft ICR The
evaluation is attached to this report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL I)
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In the early 1980s, the Malian economy faced serious economic and financial crisis arising from
recurring droughts, a decline in the terms of trade and inappropriate economic and financial policies. To
redress the situation, the Govemment launched a series of adjustment and stabilization programs starting in
1982, which included measures to reduce budget deficits and improve the efficiency of resource allocation.
Progress achieved under these programs eroded in 1986 following a sharp drop in the intemational price of
cotton, Mali's major export commodity. In the absence of appropriate adjustment measures, the economic
and financial situation degenerated by 1987 into a major economic crisis.
2.    The Government resumed its adjustment efforts in mid-1988 and prepared, with Bank and IME
assistance, a first year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1988-90. The financial and structural
measures outlined in this PFP were largely implemented as planned. A second year PFP, covering the
period 1990-92, focused on five key areas: (i) improvement of economic incentives to promote private sector
development; (ii) improvement of public resource management; (iii) reform of the cotton sector; (iv)
completion of restructuring of the public enterprise sector; and (v) reform of the financial sector. SAL L
prepared and negotiated in 1989/90, supported the Govemment's adjustment efforts under the second-year
PFP (1990-92).  The credit followed approval of two hybrid (adjustment/investment) operations in
agriculture and education, and a public enterprise sector adjustment operation.
Program Objectives
3.    SAL I was intended to support the Government's adjustment efforts in two key areas of the second
year PFP: improving the economic incentive system; and improving public resources management.
Measures to improve the economic incentive system included: (i) simplification and rationalization of foreign
trade taxation; (ii) restructuring of indirect and direct taxation; and (iii) removal of regulatory constraints
inhibiting private sector development. Improvements in the management of public resources was supported
by: (i) restructuring of current expenditures; (ii) reform of the civil service; and (ini) better programming and
monitoring of public investments. In addition, SAL I included a subsidiary component aimed at improving
statistics and the monitoring of poverty indicators.
4.    Program objectives were clearly defined, consistent with the Government's economic policy as
outlined in the second year PFP, and with the Bank's strategy of promoting sustainable economic growth in



conjunction with intemal and extemal financial viability. SAL I addressed key economic constraints in a
realistic way, building on previous Malian experience in implementing stabilization and structural measures.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of objectives. Achievement of objectives is judged to be substantial with respect to
improving economic incentives and partial with respect to improving public resources management. Most of
the reform measures were implemented as agreed, except for those dealing with direct taxation (waived
under agreement with the Bank) and civil service restructuring.
6.    (a) Improving the economic incentives system. The Govemment successfully implemented policy
and administrative refomis designed to simplify the extemal trade regime and taxation, streamline
administrative procedures for commercial activities and labor market functioning, and enhance the flexibility
and transparency of the domestic indirect taxation system. The main policy refomis included: elimination of
all import restnctions and export taxes; replacement of specific taxes by ad-valorem taxes; reduction of the
fiscal import tax rates from 27 to 3; replacement of the existing tax on goods and services by a value-added
tax; introduction of a declining protection tax on 18 categories of locally produced goods; and liberalization
of the pricing system for petroleum products. Administrative reforms included: simplification of import and
export fomnalities; revision of the commercial, investment, and labor codes; simplification of procedures for
creation of enterprises; and modification of the institutional framework govening the petroleum sector while
disengaging the state from all activities related to petroleum products.
7.    (b) Improving public resource management. This component focused on: (i) restructuring current
public expenditure; (ii) reforming the civil service; and (iii) strengthening the programming and monitoring
of public investments. As regards the first item, substantial progress was made in strengthening the control
and monitoring of budgetary procedures, unifying the public budget and increasing budgetary allocations to
priority expenditure categories. The Government was not successful, however, in maintaining the agreed
wage bill ceiling and in limiting certain categories of expenditures (such as scholarships), particularly during
the period of political transition (April 1991-June 1992). Concerning civil service reform, its short term
objective of containing the wage bill by reducing the number of employees was achieved. The long-term
objective of improving the efficiency of the civil service, however, was not achieved. Reasons for this failure
include the non-application of the new civil service organizational framework (cadres organiques),
shortcomings in implementing the voluntary departure program for civil servants, and weak management of
the program for the reinsertion of departees into other economic activities. Regarding the third item,
substantial improvements were made in planning and monitoring public investments. However, capacities in
this area remained weak at the National Planning Directorate (DNP) level as well as at the level of technical
ministries.
8.     Key factors that affected achievement of major objectives. Factors that negatively affected
SAL I outcomes include: (i) the socio-political disturbances of March 1991 which disrupted the production
apparatus and severely affected the administrative services responsible for implementing the program; (ii) the
fall in the intemational price of cotton which contributed to the economy's balance of payments and
budgetary difficulties; (iii) the lack of competitiveness, largely due to the overvaluation of the CFAF, which
impacted negatively on the tradable sector and limited the recovery of economic growth; and (iv) weaknesses
in administrative capacities which hampered the implementation of the SAL I program, and in particular the
monitoring of public investments and poverty indicators.
ii



9.    Bank and Borrower performance. The Bank's performance during preparation of the program
was satisfactory, with close consultation on the formulation and 3esign of the reform programn. Supervision
was camed out competently, often coinciding with parallel missions from the IMF. The Borrower's
participation in preparation of the operation was satisfactory. Program, objectives were internalized and
measures needed to accomplish them were carefully prepared. Commitment to the prograrn was generally
strong, except during the political transition period (April 1991-June 1992). The Borrower's performance in
implementing the reform program was satisfactory except for the civil service reform where key agreed
actions were not taken.
10.   Program outcome. Overall, the outcome of SAL I is satisfactory. The reforms implemented under
the program helped introduce an appropriate economic environment and strengthened the economy's ability
to cope with exogenous shocks. By eliminating the worst distortions and removing significant obstacles to
private sector development, SAL I laid the foundations on which the recent comprehensive program --
including both internal and extemal adjustment-- helped reestablish supply-led economic growth. The
relatively good results observed since the CFA Franc devaluation of January 1994 attest to the benefits
generated by the reforms implemented under SAL I. Moreover, the program's focus on budgetary
allocations for the priority sectors of education, health and basic infrastructure helped raise the authorities'
awareness of the need to improve Mali's social development.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   The following lessons may be learnt from this operation:
- Inadequacy of nternal adjustment alone. The strategy adopted by Mali and its partners in the CFA zone,
prior to the January 1994 devaluation, made it possible to stabilize inflation and contain financial
imbalances, but it limited the Government's ability to meet priority needs and prevented greater
economic recovery in the medium- term. In retrospect, it was unrealistic to hope to achieve sustainable
overall growth of the economy in the face of deteriorating terms of trade without a substantial
depreciation of the real exchange rate.
* Institutional capacities to implement and monitor reforms. Great attention should be paid to ensuring
that the country has the institutional capacities needed to implement the reform program. If institution-
building actions accompany reform programs, they should be programmed over a sufficiently long
period, usually much longer than the period needed for the quick-disbursing component of a SAL. A
longer term institutional development project, in which other donors participate, could be a better
instrument than a TA component that accompanies a SAL.
*  Tranche release condition related to macroeconomic performance. The extent to which a country has
met the general tranche release criterion of maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic framework may
be difficult to evaluate objectively. In Mali's case, two similar situations gave rise to different
recommendations on tranche release based on different Bank evaluations of whether the Government
was committed to putting in place adequate corrective measures. It would be desirable to link this
macroeconomic conditionality to clear and specific performance criteria to minimize any element of
subjectivity. Moreover, to ensure that the macroeconomic program is not put at risk in case of delays in
executing specific reform measures, two types of tranches could be considered: one linked to
implementation of the macro program and the other linked to completion of specific policy reform
measures. This approach has been adopted in the follow-up adjustment operation fur Mali currently
under preparation.
iii



*  Sectoral budget allocations. While it is appropriate to set quantitative targets for budget allocations to
specific sectors, budget execution could differ significantly from budget allocations and, although the
sectoral target may be met globally, the intrasectoral patterns may be inconsistent with desired sector
development and efficiency objectives. For the future, conditionalities ought to be tied not to budget
allocations alone but to actual expenditures as well. In addition, armual expenditure reviews should be
carried out after one budget cycle is completed to provide input into the next budget cycle.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL I)
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
PART I -- PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   BACKGROUND
1.    Economic policy. Following the deterioration of the country's economic and financial situation in
the early 1980s, the Malian Government launched a series of adjustment and stabilization programs which
included measures to reduce budget deficits, operating losses of public enterprises, and public sector arrears
to the private sector. In addition, some initial reforms aimed at liberalizing the goods market were introduced
to improve the efficiency of resource allocation. Substantial progress was subsequently achieved in reducing
economic and financial imbalances. However, the pace of the reforms slowed down in late 1986 following
the drop in world cotton prices. In the absence of appropriate adjustment measures, the econormic and
financial situation became difficult after 1987 and degenerated into a major economic crisis. The
Govemment sought to address the situation by implementing, in mid-1988, a medium-term adjustment
program and preparing, with the assistance of Bank and IMF staff, a first year Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) for the period 1988-90. In November 1989, a second year PFP was prepared for the period 1990-92.
The prograrn detailed in this PFP focused on five key areas: (i) creation of an environrnent favorable to
development of the private sector; (ii) improvement of public resource management; (iii) reform of the cotton
sector; (iv) completion of the public enterprise sector restructuring; and (v) reform of the financial sector.
The financial and structural measures outlined in the first PFP for 1988 and 1989 were largely implemented
as planned.
2.    Preparation of the SAL 1. The possibility of a structural adjustment credit was considered during
Bank macroeconomic missions that visited Mali in July 1988 and February 1989. The program supported
by this credit was pre-appraised in October 1989 and appraised in March 1990. A post-appraisal mission to
assess progress in preparation of the agreed reforms was conducted in May 1990. Negotiations were
completed in October 1990 and the credit becarne effective in March 1991.
3.    IDA Adjustment credits prior to SAL I. Previous adjustment efforts were supported by IDA
through an adjustment operation in the public enterprise sector, and two hybrid adjustment/investment
operations in the education and agriculture sectors, respectively. The Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Credit, approved in May 1988, was designed to deal with the public finance and financial sector crises
resulting from poor performance of the public enterprise sector. The Education Sector Consolidation Credit,
approved in June 1989, was aimed at promoting more effective and efficient use of resource and accelerating
the  development of primary  education.    The  main  objectives of the  Agriculture  Sector
Adjustment/Investment Credit, approved in July 1990, were to improve the incentive system for the cotton
sector, further the liberalization of the cereals market and improve natural resource management.



4.    Political context. From 1968, Mali was ruled under a military dictatorship regime. This regime
was overthrown in a popular uprising.in March 1991 during which socio-economic infrastructure, public
installations, and private properties were destroyed. A transition Government took office after the uprising
and was replaced by a democratically elected govermment in June 1992. This Government has grappled
since then to find the right balance between restoring the authority of the state and continuing to promote the
democratization process, and has succeeded in building broad consensus around key national issues
including the economic reform progran. SAL I program was prepared, negotiated, and approved under the
militaiy dictatorship regime and was adopted as negotiated by the transition and the democratically elected
Governments.
IL  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
5.    Objectives of the program. The reform policy package under SAL I supported the Government's
overall structural adjustment program in the two first key areas outlined in the second year PFP, namely:
improving econormic incentives to create an environment favorable to development of the private sector and
enhance resource allocation, and improving public resource management. The first objective was to be
achieved through: (i) a simplification and rationalization of foreign trade taxation; (ii) a restructuring of
domestic indirect and direct taxation; and (iii) a simplification of the regulatory framework governing
commercial and industrial activity and the labor market. Reform measures designed to achieve the second
objective included: (i) restructuring of current expenditures; (ii) civil service reform; and (iii) measures to
improve programming and monitoring of public investments. In addition to these two key objectives, SAL I
included a subsidiary component aimed at improving statistics and the monitoring of poverty indicators.
Implementation of the proposed measures was expected to contribute to the restoration of internal and
extemal financial and economic equilibria, through their impact on the Government budget and external
trade, and promote economic growth through an expansion of private sector investment and more efficient
public resource management.
6.    Evaluation of objectives. The objectives of the program were clearly defined, relevant to the
country's development, and in line with the Government's econonic policy strategy oudined in the PFP. In
addition, objectives were consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy promoting sustainable economic
growth in conjunction with internal and external financial viability. The SAL I program correcdy addressed
distortions and rigidities in the trade and tax regimes and in the labor market, and the provision of essential
public services. The civil service reform component was ambitious but appeared to be truly a "home-
grown" product of the Malian administration.
7.    Risks and design of the program. Three major risks capable of adversely impacting execution of
the program were identified: (i) disruption that might be caused by interest groups standing to benefit from
delayed or diluted implementation of the reforms; (ii) slow implementation due to weak administrative
capacity; and (iii) extemal shocks such as a recurrence of drought conditions and a deterioration of terms of
trade. To reduce the potential impact of these risks, the program was heavily front-loaded so that critical
reforms would be adopted or implemented prior to Board approval. Moreover, the program included
technical assistance to reduce risks related to weak implementation capacities. However, the design suffered
from two shortcomings:
* Progress achieved in the application of a significant part of the reforms prior to credit approval may have
contributed to an overly optimistic assessment of the Government's institutional and administrative
* capacity to implement the rest of the program measures over twv years (1991 and 1992).
* The technical assistance component was not clearly and concretely defined during program design. This
led to attempts by the borrower to use the money for activities not directly related to the implementation
2



of the program, as evidenced by large number of financing rqquests ~n this category rejected by the
Bank.
111. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
8.     Most of the reform measures needed to achieve the main objectives of the program were adopted
and implemented. Achievement of objectives is judged to be substantial with regards to improving the
economic incentives system and partial with regards to improving public resources management. A stable
and sound macroeconomic framework was essential to achieve the program objectives.
9.     Maintaining an Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework. An average GDP growth rate of
4% per annum was projected over the 1991-93 period. Annual inflation was to be contained below 3%, and
the budget and current account deficits were to be progressively reduced. The program, however, called for
these objectives to be revised in the context of the annual updating of the Policy Framework Paper. Table 1
presents the initial macroeconomic targets and the results achieved.
Table 1. Macroeconomic Projections and Realization. I/
1990          1991               1992                    1993
Initia     Rea    .     I         II
Ininitial Real.        eal.  Initial  Revised | Real.  Initial I Revised , Real.
pro i         proj.          ro.    pro.    I       proj.  I proi.    1
GDPgrowthrate           3      0.4   3.9    -0.9  4.2   p5.9          8.4   4.2    4.0       -2.4
GDP growth rate  3.9                                                     2.4~~~~~~~~~~~r 
Inflation rate          1.8    2.9   2.6    2.1   3.0    1.9          1.7   3.0   f 2.5       2.6
(GDP deflator)                                                                     I l   l  l
Govemmentrevenue        16.9   17.2  16.5   16.0  16.3  ,15.4        13.4  16.4   15.8       13.9
(in % of GDP)                 l             l              l
Overall fiscal deficit, excl.  -9.4   -8.5  -9.1   -12.1  -6.7   -10.7    -11.0  -5.5   -7.1  -9.6
grants (in%ofGDP) 2/          l             l              l        l
Extemal current account   -14.2  -14.6  -13.6  -13.8  -13.2  1-13.7    -14.6  -12.1  -12.3    -12.9
balance, excl. official       l              l             l        l
transfers (in % of GDP)       l                                     l
1/ The initial projections are taken from Annex I of the President's Memorandum. The revised projections
are taken from the third year PFP, which was agreed upon in July 1992.
2/ Since 1991, six subsidiary budgets and special funds have been incorporated in the overall public
budget. The post- 1990 figures on realizations are therefore not directly comparable with the 1990 figures.
10.    During the 1991-93 period, GDP growth averaged only 2%, much below the projected average rate
of 4%. This marked divergence is largely explained by a bad crop year in 1990/91, low competitiveness of
exportables and import-substitutes, and the disruption of economic activity following the March 1991 riots.
Macroeconomic performance was weak during the political transition period. Performance of public
finances was much lower than expected, giving rise to far greater budget deficits than initially projected.
Expenditure was difficult to control in the face of considerable pressure on the Government from various
interest groups (students, labor unions) which were instrumental in the overthmw of the military dictatorship
and also the need to reconstruct and restore the services affected by the riots. Budgetary revenues were
generally lower than anticipated, mainly due to: (i) greater resistance from a part of the population in meeting
their fiscal and other civic obligations in a context of increased social and political liberties; (ii) increased
exemptions granted by the transition Government; and (iii) a rise in customs fraud. As a result, the initially
projected fiscal targets could not be achieved. A third year PFP was negotiated with the transition
Government in March 1992 and adopted by the democratically elected Government in July 1992. At the
release of the second tranche of the credit in December 1992, it was estimated by the Bank that the
3



Government was strongly committed to the financial program and had made good progress towards
achieving the PFP financial targets. The Government encountered problems in the execution of the agreed
1993 financial program, owing mainly to significant revenue shortfalls and expenditure overruns. In
September 1993, it adopted an austerity package aimed at returning to the agreed macroeconomic
framework for 1993 and 1994. By December 1993, when the decision was taken to release the third tranche
of the credit, the Bank estimated that sufficient progress had been made to correct slippages on the financial
program.
A.    Improving the Economic Incentives System
11.    Reform measures included in this component comprised a set of extemal trade and tax reforms
together with measures to simplify the regulatory framework. They were designed to: (i) enhance the private
sector's flexibility and response capacity; (ii) improve resource allocation efficiency by eliminating numerous
administrative obstacles to private sector activity; and (iii) increase Mail's intemational competitiveness by
holding the cost structure and pnrce increase below those of its competitors and trading partners.
A.1.   External Trade Reforms
12.    The Government intended to simplify the foreign trade taxation system as well as the administrative
procedures for import and export operations. Main actions included:
* replacement of taxation based on administrative values (valeurs mercuriales, valeurs baremes) by
taxation based on actual CIF values, except for petroleum products;
* simplification of import and export formalities;
*  replacement of specific taxes by ad-valorem taxes;
* introduction of a declining protection tax (TDP) on 18 categories of locally produced goods with a
maximum rate of 40%, designed to decline by 10 percentage points annually;
* revision of fiscal import tax (DFI) rates by reducing the number of rates from 27 to 3;
*  introduction of a variable import tax (TCI) on rice and sugar to reduce the impact of intemational price
fluctuations on domestic producer prices.
13.    The different measures envisaged for trade reform were adopted and implemented. Prior to Board
presentation, the Govemment had already eliminated import quotas --except for tobacco and pharmaceutical
products-- and had abolished all taxes and restrictions on exports. Over the 1991-93 period, tariff rates were
streamlined and consolidated into five tax rates (two import duty taxes of 5% and 0% and three fiscal import
taxes of 30%, 15%, and 0%). Four special earmarked import taxes were abolished or incorporated into the
fiscal import tax. All specific taxes were replaced with ad-valorem tariffs. In addition, revised procedures
were put in place to further simplify the administrative procedures for import and export operations, notably
by replacement of the import license system with a system requiring only a presentation of intention to
import. Achievement of this component was therefore substantial.
14.    However, a number of problems became apparent in the implementation phase. First, the new
tariffs were modified several times (four times between June 1991 and February 1992), which disrupted the
incentives system and sent signals of instability and uncertainty regarding the economic environment.
Second, the variable import tax (TCI) was not applied as planned during the political transition period and
the first reduction in the declining protection tax (TDP) was adopted one year behind schedule. Finally, the
reforms were not accompanied by a sufficient strengthening in the customs administrative capacities in order
to tap the full potential in fiscal revenue mobilization they might have generated
4



A.2   Tax Reforn
15.   The Government intended to revise and simplify the existing structure of indirect and direct taxation
in order to enhance flexibility and transparency of the tax system and improve incentives for the private
sector. With regard to indirect taxation, the designed measure was to replace the existing tax on goods and
services (Impot sur les Affaires et Services,- IAS) by a value-added tax (VAT) to eliminate the cascading
effect inherent in the IAS and to remove the bias generated against exports by not providing for the rebate of
taxes paid at intermediate stages. With regard to direct taxation, the Govenmment intended to put in place a
unitary tax on personal income and a unitary company profits tax by 1992. The program further included a
revision of the investment code, with the objective to incorporate in it the proposed tariff and tax reforms.
16.   Achievement of the tax reform component was substantial. The tax on goods and services was
replaced with a value-added tax (VAT) in January 1991. At the same time, a special tax on services (TPS),
similar to the VAT, was introduced. A study on taxation of the informal sector resulted in the introduction of
the ADYT (avance sur divers imp6ts et taxes), fixed at 5% and levied on imports and public contracts but
deductible from the VAT and other indirect taxes. Since June 1991, a revised investment code has been in
force, which took into account tariff and tax reforms, abolished the exemption of import duties, but granted
certain domestic tax advantages to new enterprises.
17.   The Government requested a waiver for the condition related to adoption of legislation for a unitary
income and company profit tax. Weak tax administration, coupled with the inconclusive experience of other
countries (Senegal, in particular) which have adopted such reforms, were the main reasons for requesting
this waiver. Moreover, it was considered too risky to introduce a new instrument requiring significant
changes in existing procedures at a time when improved revenue mobilization was essential for the viability
of the macroeconomic framework. The Bank agreed to the request.
A.3   Reform of the Regulatory Framework
18.   In order to enhance the efficiency of resource allocation and stimulate economic activity, the
Govenunent intended to liberalize the pricing and marketing system, and streamline administrative
procedures for commercial activities and labor market functioning. As a part of the SAL preparation, all
price controls were removed, except for margin controls on pharmaceutical and petroleum products, urban
passenger transport rates, and intemational truck freight rates. In addition, the hiring monopoly of the
National Labor and Employment office (ONMOE) was abolished. Other regulatory reforms supported by
SAL I included: (i) revision of the commercial and labor codes; (ii) simplification of administrative
procedures for the creation of enterprises, and (iui) reform of the pricing system for petroleum products.
19.    Achievement of this component is judged to be satisfactory. New labor and commnercial codes were
approved in August 1992, price controls were removed (with the exception of those of key utilities), and the
functioning of one-stop investment windows was improved. The liberalization of petroleum product
importation, pricing, and commercialization went into effect in July 1992, at the same time as a simplification
and reduction of taxation, a system for monitoring retail prices and supply conditions in the main localities
and the creation of an Office National des Produits Peroliers (ONAP) responsible for planning and
regulation of the sector. The state has now completely disengaged itself from all commercial activities
related to petroleum products.
20.    However, despite the establishment of a simpler and clearer regulatory framework, effective
application of the new codes did not follow in all cases. In particular, application of certain parts of the labor
code was held up for a while by failure to prepare and adopt the required decrees to make it fully operational.
Also the desired efficiency of the sectoral one-stop windows designed to facilitate the establishment of new
5



enterprises did not materialize. In April 1995, it became preferable to combine them into one single window
located at the National Industry Directorate.,.-
B.    Improving Public Resources Management
21.   This component aimed at improving the management of public resources and creating a smaller and
more efficient civil service.  It focused on three key areas, namely: (i) restructuring current public
expenditure; (ii) reform of the civil service, comprising a civil service restructuning program and a voluntary
departure program; and (iii) strengthening the programming and monitoring of public investments.
B.1.   Restructuring Current Public Expenditure
22.   The reforms planned in this area aimed at improving transparency of the budgetary process and
providing adequate allocation for non-wage operating and maintenance expenditures as well as for essential
public services. To achieve these objectives, the Government intended to: (i) unify the budget by integrating
subsidiary budgets and special funds in the overall budget; (ii) maintain the annual wage bill at its 1989 level
(CFAF 40 billion); and (iii) progressively increase the share of expenditure on education, health, and supplies
and maintenance in current public expenditure.
23.    Achievement of the objectives of this component has been partial. The Govemment took some
measures to strengthen the control and monitoring of budgetary procedures. This included strengthening the
functioning of the central payroll office (BCS) and the integration of six out of the ten subsidiary budgets and
special funds into the overall budget since 1991. Efforts to keep the wage bill within the initial program
target were not successful. The wage bill reached CFAF 42.4 billion in 1991, but was brought down to
CFAF 41.5 billion in 1992 and CFAF 40.8 billion in 1993. The agreed ceiling for the wage bill became
increasingly difficult to achieve in the face of intense political pressure exerted by the workers' unions on the
transition government. Education, health, and operations and maintenance spending shares in the current
public expenditure did increase steadily after 1991, but the distribution of actual expenditures in these sectors
may have remained inadequate. In the education sector, in particular, a sizable proportion of public
expenditure was absorbed by secondary and higher education (more specifically by student scholarships), to
the detriment of primary education. This contributed to the cancellation of the remaining two tranches of the
adjustment component of the Education Sector Consolidation Credit in April 1993.
B.2.   Civil Service Reform
24.   Reform measures supported by SAL I comprised two interrelated parts: a civil service restructuring
program and an enlarged voluntary departure program. The objectives were to contain the wage bill,
rationalize the administrative structure, and improve the efficiency of the civil service. Achievement of these
objectives was partial. The voluntary departure program helped achieve the short-term objectives of
containing the wage bill and reducing the size of the civil service. However, no substantial change has
occurred in terms of restructuring the civil service and improving its efficiency.
25.    Restructuring the civil service. Three types of measures were envisaged under this component:
(i) application of the new civil service organizational framework (cadres organiques), adopted by the
Government in November 1990, with a view to eliminate non-essential services and merge structures whose
functions overlapped; (ii) review of the remuneration policy for government employees; and (iii)
computerization of personnel management.
6



26.   The restructuring of the civil service has been partially accomplished. The worker's unions
demanded in early 1991 that the cadres organiques be renegotiated because they had not been associated in
their preparation. The resulting new draft was not implemented because it would have entailed significant
increases in the number of civil servants, contradicting the staff reduction objective. The study on the reform
of the remuneraton system was completed by extemal consultants, though with substantial delays.
Following its recomnnendations, a new salary grid was adopted in December 1993. However, no firm
actions were taken to reform the system of "bonuses" and "allowances", whose revision was recommended
by the study. A new status for government employees was adopted in April 1994. Among other things, the
new status set rules for salary advancements that are now based on merit and less on seniority. Also physical
verification of civil servants for all sectors (except that of defense) was completed. Moreover, the
harmonization of personnel management systems, that of the Civil Service Directorate (DNFPP) and that of
the Central Payroll Office (BCS), was undertaken and substantially achieved. The computerization of
personmel management was not implemented as planned. Following the destruction of the Civil Service
Ministry's equipment and administrative facilities in March 1991, it was decided that funds initially
earmarked for computerization should be used to replace equipment rendered unusable or destroyed.
Besides, the data base required for computerization, which was available at appraisal, had been largely
burned out during the March 1991 riots.
27.   Voluntary departure program. The voluntary departure program had two objectives: (i) to
reduce the share of the wage bill in current public expenditure; and (ii) to improve the functioning of the civil
service through implementation of the cadres organiques. The program set as target a reduction in the
number of Government employees by about 1,700 civil servants and 6,500 contractual employees
(conventionnaires). It included an incentive package composed of a fixed premium by category of
employees (equivalent up to four years of wages for civil servants and to three years wages for contractual
employees), maintenance of pension rights or reimbursement of pension contributions and reinsertion
benefits. Those benefits comprised access to a project preparation and training fund, covering up to 80%/o of
training costs and up to 50% of project preparation costs, as well as a guarantee fund intended to cover up to
50% of each loan obtained from commercial banks. All government employees were not eligible for the
program. The Letter of Development Policy stipulated that the eligibility of primary school teachers, basic
health care personnel, statisticians and computer specialists be restricted, subject to sectoral program
requirements.
28    Under the program, 5,053 govemment employees out of 8,200 expected left the civil service,
including 2,710 civil servants (of which about 690 military personnel) and 2,343 contractual employees. This
helped the Govemment contain the wage bill and reduce the number of Government employees within the
limits required for the release of the second and third tranches. However, contrary to the spirit of the
program, about 10% of civil servants who opted to leave were from the priority sectors of primary education
and health. Achieving the target has not been possible mainly for four reasons. First, from the start the
program ran into unforeseen difficulties generated by the destruction of the civil service directorate archives
and basic files during the riots. Second, the introduction of the cadres organiques, the main instrument
through which the voluntary departure was supposed to be implemented, was indefinitely delayed. Third,
the incentives to leave the civil service declined after Government employees started receiving their salary
payments more regularly and the promotion freeze which had been in force since 1986 was lifted; and
finally, the number of contractual employees successful in the professional examinations and who were,
consequently, reintegrated as civil servants, was much higher than expected.
29.    Achievement of the reinsertion program has been negligible. Up to March 1993, only 40 loans had
been provided by commercial banks to departees, The failure of the program is in part explained by the
following reasons: (i) the departees were not well-prepared before leaving the civil service and a number of
7



them plunged into setting up businesses only after they had spent the bulk of their incentive package; (ii)
commercial banks were reluctant to provide small investment loans which they considered too low to be
monitored profitably and for which the guarantees were judged to be insufficient; and (iii) exact and enough
information about the program was not clearly provided to departees, which contributed to creating
ambiguity regarding accessibility to investment loans. Specifically, the possibility of obtaining a bank loan
was misinterpreted by a few departees as a "right" and as a government "obligation".
30.   The management of the reinsertion program mechanism did not work out as well as originally
expected. The private executing agency, designed to provide technical assistance to departees and to
manage the training and guarantee funds, began its activities six months after the first group of departees
(2,679) had left the civil service. The agency's lack of appropriate capacities and technical expertise in
assuming assigned tasks was highlighted in Bank supervision reports. Moreover, the distribution of
responsibilities between the pubhc unit monitoring the program and the private executing agency was not
clearly established, which hindered provision of needed services to departees. On the other hand, the
Government signed in October 1992, without consultation with the World Bank, an agreement with local
commercial banks and insurance companies setting up a mechanism providing up to 100% risk guarantees
for loans contracted by departees. This reinforced the departees' perception that bank loans were a part of
the severance package. By end 1994, commercial banks had granted a total of 308 loans to departees, 111
of which have defaulted.
31.   In retrospect, the different units in charge of the reinsertion should have been put in place before the
start of the programn and sufficient and timely information about the program should have been provided to
departees. Moreover, the respective roles of the different units in charge of the program should have been
clearly defined and limited to specific tasks. However, it may be unrealistic to expect that the re-insertion of
departees in viable, productive activities may have been successfully achieved at a time when the economy
was in a slump.
B.3.  Public investment programming and monitoring
32.   The Government intended to improve both the programming and the monitoring of public
investments in order to make the annual public investment budget and the three-year rolling investment
program more effective instruments for economic growth and public resource management. In particular, it
was required that each project whose total cost exceeded CFAF I billion be subject to an analysis of its
financial and economic feasibility, taking into account its implications in terms of counterpart funds, recurrent
costs and debt service. The Government also planned to take steps to strengthen the identification, appraisal
and monitoring capacities of the National Planning Directorate (DNP), as well as the planning units of the
technical ministries.
33.   Progress was made in improving the planning and budgeting of public investments. The annual
public investment budgets and the three-year rolling investment programs were submitted to the Bank for
review and were found to be in conformity with the related condition for release of the second and the third
tranches. In general, the investrnent budgets gave priority to the education, health, and rural sectors and to
the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. However, contrary to what was agreed in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy, a few projects were executed without prepared feasibility studies and were
justified by authorities on the basis of "sovereignty", etc. (e.g. Palais des Congres de Bamako). Moreover,
although some progress was made in extending the coverage of the investment program, there were still
several projects executed outside the program. Planning units were set up in the technical ministries to take
over project selection and programming and to provide the DNP with data on project financial execution.
However, these units remained ill-equipped in human and matenral resources. Most of them are still unable
8



to properly perforn their role. Despite progress made, capacities for programming and monitoring of public
investments still remain weak, at the technical ministries as well as at the DNP level.
C.    Improving Statistics and Monitoring of Poverty Indicators
34.    The Government intended to carry out a program containing three elements: (i) elaboration and
implementation of an action plan to strengthen the overall statistical system; (ii) exploitation and analysis of
existing household budget/consumption survey (completed in 1988) and the informnal sector survey
(completed in 1989); (iii) establishment of a permanent household survey system by an integrated
community survey every four years and a pnority survey during the intenm years to monitor socio-econonic
conditions of the population. A report on household living conditions was to be published annually. This
program was to make possible the formnulation of a set of proposals on the orientation of social policy and to
strengthen the administration's capacity, and more particularly that of the National Statistics Directorate
(DNSI), in socio-economnic data collection and analysis.
35.    A Statistics Coordination Commrittee was established in August 1991 and a statistics action plan was
adopted in August 1992 in order to improve the quality and availability of statistical data, and strengthen
administration's capacity in formulation and monitoring of social policy. A poverty profile study was
completed in October 1993, with major delays due to numerous technical problems encountered in the
exploitation of the household budget/consumption survey. The permanent household survey system planned
in the program was never set up. For reasons of weak capacities, the Government elected to first complete
the exploitation of the two existing surveys before proceeding to any other. A first priority survey was
completed in 1994. Progress was made in strengthening technical capacities of the DNSI by training staff
and providing technical assistance. However, implementation capacities have remained weak as many of the
trained staff left for the pnrvate sector or other public departments. Achievement of objectives is therefore
judged to be partial.
IV.  IMPORTANT FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
36.   Four main factors negatively affected implementation of the program and achievement of its
objectives: the sociopolitical disturbances of March 1991 and the administrative instability that ensued; the
fall in the world market cotton pnrce; the economy's lack of competitiveness, and the weakness of the
country's administrative capacities.
37.    The socio-political disturbances of March 1991 severely disrupted the production apparatus and
the administrative services responsible for implementing the prograrn. In particular, a few government
facilities and pnrvate properties were destroyed. The disturbances caused delays in the implementation of the
measures, increased the external resource needs and, in some cases, resulted in changes of priorities. The
political transition to a democratc multiparty system also required greater openness and accountability on the
part of the Government in executing reform measures. Moreover, the Govenmment's authority was
considerably weakened vis-a-vis the growing power of several interest groups (particularly students and the
unions) who stood to lose from application of certain reforms foreseen under the adjustment program or
were seeking financial recognition for their contribution to the overthrow of the military regime.
38.    The drop in world market cotton prices in 1992 and 1993 had not been foreseen at the time the
program was prepared. Compared to 1990, the price received by Mali for cotton exports fell by about 7/o in
1991, 26% in 1992 and by 16% in 1993. This drop entailed a severe decline in exports proceeds and tax
revenue and contributed to the economy's balance of payments and budgetary difficulties.
9



39.    Economy's lack of competitiveness. Despite important measures taken to improve the system of
economic incentives, the competitive position of the Malian economy worsened during the adjustment
period. This was due to the deterioration of its terms of trade, the appreciation of the French Franc, and the
depreciation of the currencies of competitor countries (Ghana, Nigeria, southem Asian countries). The graph
above shows the evolution of the Malian terms of trade and the real effective exchange rate (an upward
movement represents an appreciation). In a country pursuing a flexible exchange rate policy, a substantial
decline in the temis of trade would normally be compensated for by depreciating the real exchange rate to
restore extemal competitiveness. In the case of Mali, as with many other CFA countries, exactly the
opposite happened (i.e., appreciation). The lack of competitiveness impacted negatively on the Malian
tradable sector and limited the recovery of economic growth that would have ensued from a better economic
environment.
M ali: Real Effective Exchange Rate and Terms of Trade
(1985 = 100)
140
1 302
90
to
70                        -  
i986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992   1993    1994
F  Real Eff:ctiv Exchange Rate  U-3,T erm s of Trade
N ote T he R cal Effect ive Exchange R ate is calculated using the foreigri w holesale p rice index
and the dom estic consum er p rice index
Source. World Bank Sicff estim ales
40.    Important weaknesses in administrative capacities hampered the implementation and mornitoring of
key aspects of the SAL I program. Several supervision muissions noted that delays in preparation and
implementation of planned reforms were due to weak capacities and insufficient coordination between the
different structures involved. The reform measures were not followed in all cases by sufficient strengthening
of administrative and technitcal capacities to effectively enforce the measures.  More particularly,
improvement in public investment and social indicators monitoring was lower than expected particularly due
to limiuted capacities of the national planning and statistics directorates.
V.     SUSTAINABILITV OF RESULTS
41.    Despite signi'ficant shortcomi'ngs 'n implementation of the program, the reformn measures helped
introduce an appropriate economic environment and strengthened the economy's ability to cope with
exogenous shocks. By eliminmating the worst distortions and removing significant obstacles to private sector
development, they laid the foundations for the recent comprehensive program --including both internal and
extemnal adjustment-- which helped reestablish supply-led growth and reduce financial imbalances. The
relatively good results observed since the January 1994 devaluation attest to the benefits generated by the
reformis implemented under SAL I. Moreover, the increased focus on social aspects of reforms, especially
the importance of ensuring increased budgetary allocations for education and health, helped raise the
authorities' awareness regarding the urgency to improve Mali's social development. Achievements are
therefore likely to be sustainable.
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE
42.    The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation of the program was satisfactory. The
Bank collaborated closely wihthe Government itn the prior studies and 'in the formulation anid designi of thie
10



reform measures while leaving the borrower sufficient margin to appropnrate and internalize the program. It
also collaborated closely with the Government and the JIMF in the preparation of policy framework papers
which laid the basis for the proposed reforms and also for adjustment of the program in the event of
slippages. The Bank's recommendations generally reflected the best practices of the tme.
43.    Supervision of the implementation of the program was globally satisfactory. The Bank sent on
average three macroeconomic and three technical supervision missions per year to Mali during 1991 and
1993 period. Supervision reports were regularly sent to cofinanciers. A few Malian officials encountered
during the program completion mission stressed, however, that supervision missions tended to concentrate
pnmarily on the macroeconomic framework and did not give enough attention to technical components
handled by administrative units outside the Ministry of Finance. It was also pointed out that technical
supervisions suffered from frequent changes in Bank staff or consultants. Between two technical missions, it
was common that the interlocutors changed, and this, sometimes, put in question the achievement of the
previous mission.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMtANCE
44.    Preparation. The borrower's performance in the preparaton of the operation is rated satisfactory.
Taking into account the experience gained from past adjustment operations, the objectives were intemalized
and measures needed to accomplish them were carefully prepared. The borrower's collaboration with the
Bank in the preparatory work was satisfactory in general and enabled implementation of cnritcal reforms
before the credit became effective. However, by not holding consultatons with key groups that were likely
to be affected by the planned reforms, the Government did not ensure enough constituency in support of
reforms. Unfortunately, the political context prevailing at that time limited the ability to engage in such a
consultation process.
45.    Ownership of the program. Most Government officials demonstrated an initial high degree of
ownership and accurate understanding of the rationale and implications of the program measures. There was
less comrmitment to the reforms during the political transition period since political concems had precedence
over economic concems. The new authonrties were not fully informed of all aspects of the program and the
rationale of certain choices. Moreover, during the transition penrod, it became necessary to build greater
consensus on key policy reform issues. This led to long delays in implementation of planned measures and
some slippages occurred on the financial front towards the end of the transition penrod, particularly regarding
tax revenues and fellowship expenditures. The democratically elected Govemment, which took office in
June 1992, remained committed to continuing the structural reforms.
46.   Implementation. The borrower's performance for the implementation of the different components
was satisfactory except for the civil service reform where agreed key actons were not taken. Implementation
suffered, in general, of poor coordination and communication between responsible agencies. Since 199 1, the
monitoring process was handled by an inter-ministenal commission chaired by a technical adviser to the
Minister of Finance. However, the comnission did not function efficiently as its work was neither well
organized nor coordinated. As a result, the management of the program was centralized in and performed
almost exclusively by the Ministry of Finance. The SAL monitoring mechanism was reorganized in
February 1993 by a ministenral decision creating a broader monitoring mechanism. This mechanism
improved the monitoring and coordination of the program and in particular enabled the economic program
adopted in the aftermath of the devaluaton to be successfully carried out.
47.    Procurement and audits. The borrower followed closely the procurement procedures specified in
the credit agreement. Audits of the credit accounts and those of the associated cofinancings were performed
II



by qualified outside audit finns. The Bank found the audits acceptable in both form and substance. Each of
these audits was., however, submitted with substantial delays.
Vill.  ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOME
48.    Overall, the outcome of the SAL I is rated as satisfactory. Given the difficult socio-political context,
the country's limited administrative capacities, and the extemal shocks that affected the economy, the
program substantially achieved most of its major objectives. fmportant reforms likely to improve the overall
economric environmiiienlt were put in place These reforms enabled the country to:
*  stabilize the macroeconomiic framework by imposing more ngorous public resource management;
*  promote greater extemal openness of the economy by slmplifying and rationalizing the taxation of
foreigni trade,
*  create more favorable conditions to private sector development by increasing the transparency of the
incentive system and simplifying the regulatory framework,
*  improve expenditure manageinent and ensure increased budgetary allocation for social sectors;
* limit the deflationary effects of the disruption of economic activity and the weakened competitiveness of
the economy.
49.    Progress, however, was particularly limited On two components: that of public investment
programninig and monitoring and that of improving statistics and monitoring social indicators. Despite
marked efforts in these areas, results have been far below expectations. Moreover, the revision of the
different codes was not accompanied by sufficient sensitizaton of the public to the new requirements and by
true strengthening of the institutions which enforce them. Furthermore, even though the civil service reform
succeeded in containing the wage bill and reducing the size of the civil service, thus meeting the short term
objectives of the refonn, the longer term objective of improving civil service efficiency was not achieved.
IX.   ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS AFTER SAL I
50.    The Bank has granted two adjustment credits to Mali after SAL I. The first credit --Econormic
Recovery Credit (ERC)-- was approved in March 1994. This credit was designed to assist the execution of
the program of reforms adopted by the Government following the January 1994 devaluation. The second
credit --Education Sector Adjustment Credit-- was approved by the Bank Board in January 1995 and covers
the first of a two-stage approach to develop primary education. Its purpose is to eliminate the main
distortions and inefficiencies in public resources allocated to this sector and to lay solid foundations essential
for future investments that would constitute the second stage. The adjustment program supported by this
credit has been successfully implemented, the final tranche was released in March 1996.
51.    The Malian Govemment, in collaboration with the World Bank, is currently preparing another
adjustment operation which will strengthen the reforms already implemented under SAL I and the ERC. The
operation will mainly support reforms geared towards reducing distortions in the income tax regime,
strengthening tax administration, and improving the budget preparation process and the monitoring of
expenditure execution. Also, an Institutional Development Project currently under preparation will seek to
help the Government address weaknesses in administrative capacities.
X.    MAIN LESSONS
52.   Inadequacy of iernal addustrnent alone. At the macroeconomnic level, the intemal adjustment
strategy adopted by Mali and its partners in the CFA zone pnror to the January 1994 devaluaton produced
modest results. It made it possible to stabilize inflation and contain financial imbalances but at the cost of a
12



greater economic recovery in the medium term. This strategy, which consisted in adjusting to extemal
shocks through deflationary fiscal and monetaiy measures, greatly limited the Government's ability to meet
priority needs, especially in the social and basic infrastructure sectors. It also limited the effectiveness of
trade, tax and regulatory reforms adopted, because of induced recession and its perverse effects on the
financial system. Mali had accumulated domestic arrears amounting to about CFAF 60 billion by the end of
1993, representing 8% of its GDP. In retrospect, it was unrealistic to hope for achieving sustainable overall
growth of the economy in the face of deteriorating terms of trade without a substantial depreciation of the real
exchange rate.
53.   Institutional capacities to implement and monitor reforms. When refonns are designed, great
attention should be paid to institutional weaknesses. It should be ensured that the country does indeed have
the institutional capacities needed to implement the planmed reform measures. The program should comprise
(or be accompanied by) actions specifically targeted towards continuous strengthening of the institutions over
a period longer that the quick-disbursing component of a SAL. Short-lived technical assistance is not, in and
of itself, sufficient to bring about sustainable development of institutions. A longer term institutional
development project, in which other donors participate, would be a better instrument than a TA component
that accompanies a SAL.
54.    Tranche release condition related to macroeconomic performance.  As with other adjustment
operations, the extent to which a country has met the general tranche release criterion of maintaining an
adequate macroeconomic framework depended heavily on the Bank's assessment of progress in restoring
appropriate macroeconomic framework in instances when there were difficulties with the financial program.
In the context of SAL I, all specific conditions for the second tranche release were met by December 1992,
but there had been slippages on the financial program during the preceding three months. Tranche release
was nevertheless recommended on the basis of the Bank's judgment that the newly elected Govemment was
strongly committed to the financial program and was implementing adequate corrective measures. Although
all specific conditions for the release of the third tranche had been met by the end of Apnrl 1993, the Bank
judged that not enough progress had been made to correct slippages on the agreed financial program and the
thrd tranche release was delayed till January 1994. Thus different recommendations on tranche release were
given, based on Bank evaluation of the Government commitment to the agreed financial program. For the
future, it would be desirable to link this conditionality to clear and specific macroeconomic performance
criteria to minimize any element of subjectivity, particularly in cases where there could be undue pressure on
the Bank by the Government and other donors to disburse in order not to jeopardize ongoing structural
reforms. Moreover, it would be advisable to split an adjustment loan into two types of tranches: one linked
to the macro program and the other linked to specified list of structural reforms. This would ensure that the
macroeconomic framework is not put at risk in case of delays in the execution of policy reform measures.
55.    Sectoral budget allocations. While it is appropnate to set quantitative targets for budget allocation to
specific sectors, budget execution could differ significantly from budget allocations and, although the sectoral
targets may be met globally, the intrasectoral pattems may be inconsistent with desired sector development
objectives. Both of these happened to be true under the SAL. In particular, while budget allocation targets
for the education sector were met, the larger part of the increase went towards higher education scholarships
spending, contrary to the broad objective of promoting access to primary education (see para 23). For the
future, conditionalities ought to be tied not to budget allocations alone but to actual expenditures as weUl. In
addition, annual expenditure reviews should be carried out after one budget cycle is completed to provide
input into the next budget cycle.
13






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL 1)
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
PART II- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial        Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                      X
Sector Policies                                     X      _
Financial Objectives               X
Institutional Development                                                          X
Physical Objectives                                                                X
Poverty Reduction                                   X
Gender Issues             r                  r                                     x
Other Social Objectives                             X
Environmental Objectives                                                           X
Public Sector Management                            X r_x
Private Sector Development         X x                       _       _       _
Other    =   X
B. Project Sustainability       Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
Structural Adjustment Credit       X         |              l              l
C. Bank Performance    Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                      X        _
Preparation assistance                              X
Appraisal                                           X
Supervision                                         X
D. Borrower Performance  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                                      X
Covenant compliance                                 X
Operation                                           X
E. Assessment of Outcome  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
Unsatisfactory
Structural Adjustment Credit                        X
14



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                      Purpose                       Year of           Status
Approval
Preceding operations
I. Public Enterprise Sector Public sector rationalization through liquidations,    June 1988  Closed
Adjustment Credit    restructuring and divestiture to reduce the burden
(CR 1937-MLI)         on public finances and particularly to improve
performance and rehabilitation of the public
enterprise sector.
2. Education Sector     Reduce inefficiencies in the large education sector    June 1989  2nd and 3rd tranches
Consolidation Credit    and accelerate the development of primary               cancelled in April 1993
(CR 2054-MLI)         education.
3. Agricultural Sector  Improve the incentive system for the cotton sector    July 1990   Closed
Adjustment/Investment  through both institutional and pricing/taxation
Credit (CR 2163-MLI)  reforms, consolidate the cereals market
liberalization program, increase efficiency in the
public investment program for the agricultural
sector, and improve natural resource management.
Following operations
4. Economic Recovery    Support the implementation of the key        March 1994           Fully
Credit (CR 2580-MLI)  macroeconomic and structural measures taken by                  disbursed
the Government in the aftermath of the January
1994 devaluation.
5. Education Sector     Provide critical balance of payment support in  January 1995   Last tranche disbursed
Adjustment Credit     conjunction with the promotion of the structural               in April 1996
(CR 2673-MLI)         reforms urgently needed to remove distortions and
inefficiencies in sector resource allocation and use.
15



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in            Date               Date
Project Cycle        Planned             Actual
Identification                        July 1988
Preparation                           Feb. and Oct. 1989
Appraisal            March 1990       March 1990
Negotiations                          October 1990
Board Presentation                    December 11, 1990
Signing                               January 23, 1991
Effectiveness        February 1991    March 15, 1991
First Tranche                         March 1991
Second Tranche       December 1991   December 1992
Third Tranche        December 1992   January 1994
Project Completion   June 1993        June 1995
Loan Closing         June 1993        June 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
| FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95   FY96
Appraisal Estimate               22.4    45.4    70.0        0        0        0
Actual                           19.3    22.0    45.3       67.1    68.9    69.3
Actual as % of Estimate           86       49      65        0        0        0
Date of Final Disbursement                         January 1996
Note: By the end of project implementation, the original SDR credit amount had become equivalent to
US$69.3 million.
16



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation ( 1/3)
Policy area                                        Monitorable Actions                                  Implementation            Status
Schedule
1. External trade             (a) Enact tax legislation providing for:                                         By 2nd tranche     Met by 2nd tranche
(i) reduction of the rates of fiscal imports tax (droil fiscal a / 'importation) to three,
(ii) application of the excise tax to kola-nuts, tea, alcohol, tobacco, cigarettes, salt,
ammunition, petroleum products and vehicles;
(iii) application of a declining protection tax to the following categories of goods: flour,
palm oil, household soap, plastic bags, bottles, embroideries, kaki and printed fabrics,
packing sacks, tin basins, galvanized buckets, household articles, batteries, pastas,
biscuits, plasters and matches.
(b) Abolish all valeurs mercuriales and valeurs baremes on imports and exports, except  January 1, 1991  Measure implemented
for valeurs mercuriales on petroleum products.
2. Fiscal reform              (a) Enact legislation providing for:                                              By 2nd tranche     Measure implemented
(i) replacement of the tax on business and services (imp6t sur les affaires et services-
LAS) with a value added tax;
(ii) elimination of the OSRP tax (Taxe de l 'office de stabilisation et reglementation
des prix), the mining Fund Tax, the Petrostock Tax and the TIC tax (Tare interieure
sur les carburants)
(b) Approve legislation in the council of Ministers establishing a unitary personal income    By 3rd tranche  Measure waived
tax and a unitary company profit tax.
(c) Approve petroleum taxation/pricing reforms and implementation schedule.      March 1, 1992       Met since July 1992
(d) Prepare a draft law revising the investment code.                            January 31, 1991    Measure implemented,
new investment code in
force since June 1991
(e) Carry out a study to identify appropriate tax measures for the informal sector, to  March 1, 1991  Study completed
facilitate progress toward broader application of the VAT.
17



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 2/3)
Policy area                                     Monitorable Actions                               Implementation            Status
Schedule
3. Regulatory policies    (a) Eliminate price controls on all items with the exception of petroleum products.  By 2nd tranche  Condition met by 2nd
tranche
(b) Draft an update commercial code and implementation schedule.             Januaiy, 1991      Measure implemented
(c) Make the commercial tribunals operational.                               March, 1991        Measure implemented
(d) Apply the revised labor code.                                            By 2nd tranche      New labor code approved
in August 1992
(e) Evaluate the effects of this revised labor code with a view to making it more flexible.    January 1, 1992  Measure implemented in
1995
4. Restructuring of current    (a) Reduce relative size of wage bill in current government expenditure by maintaining  By 2nd and 3rd  Targets revised during
expenditure                nominal level of 1990-92 wage bill at its 1989 level and reducing government personnel    tranche, respectively  PFP discussions and new
(see 5 b).                                                                                      targets were set
(b) Reduce the number of employees appearing in the payroll database and paid out of the  It     Targets met by 2nd and
state budget from 42,387 at May 1990 to 40,000 at March 31, 1991, 36,000 at March 31,            3rd tranches
1992, and 34,000 at December 31, 1992.
(c) Increase the shares of current expenditure for material to 12.5% in 1991 and 14% in  During 1991-92  Measures implemented
1992; increase expenditure on equipment to at least 12.5% of recurrent expenditure in
1991 and at least 14% of recurrent expenditures in 1992.
(d) Assure adequate budget allocations to the social sectors by:             During 1991-92      Measures implemented
- Maintaining the share of education expenditures in recurrent expenditure at a
minimum of 25%;
- Raising the share of health expenditures in current expenditure to at least 7.3% in
1991 and 8% in 1992;
- Increasing expenditures for road maintenance in conformity with the transport policy
letter.
(e) Transfer expenditures on didactic material in the education sector from budget chapter   Starting with the  Measures implemented
"stipends" to the equipment chapter.                                         1992 budget         starting with the 1995
budget
(t) Incorporate 6 annexed budgets and special funds in the general budget.   Starting with the   Measure implemented
1991 budget
(g) Carry out a study on the future status of three annexed budgets (INRSP, LCV and  June 30, 1991  Measures implemented
LONAMA).
By 2nd and 3rd     Condition met
(h) Agreement with the association on the 1991 and the 1992 budgets.         tranche, respectively
18



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 3/3)
Policy area                                     Monitorable Actions                                 Implementation             Status
5. Civil Service Reform    (a) Implement the Cadres organiques and complete redeployment of surplus personnel to   Iecember 31, 1990    Redeployment of surplus
the Ministry of employment and civil service.                                                      personnel completed;
Cadres organiques not
implemented
(b) Implement an expanded voluntary departure program and reduce the number of  During 1991-92     Measures impletnented;
personnel paid out of the state budget by around 8200 (1700 civil servants and 6500                target number not
contractual staff).                                                                                achieved
(c) Computerize the administrative side of personnel management.              During 1991-92       Not implemented
(d) Prepare reform proposals and an implementation schedule for revision of the  April 1, 1991     Partially implemented in
Government workers remuneration policy.                                                            1993
6. Programming and          (a) Improve the selection of projects included in the three-year public investment program
monitoring of development    and the Special Investment Budget (BSI) by:
expenditures
- preparing feasibility study for projects whose total costs exceed CFAF I billion and   January 1, 1991  Partially implemented
establishing criteria for project selection in social sectors;
- strengthening the project identification and appraisal capacities of the National  1990-92    Partially achieved
Planning Directorate (DNP) and technical ministries.
(b) Approve 1991 and 1992 investment budgets, and 1991-93 and 1992-94 rolling public   By 2nd and 3rd  Met by 2nd and 3rd
investment programs satisfactory to the Bank.                                 tranche, respectively  tranches
7. Statistical improvement  (a) Adopt and implement an action plan of action for strengthening of statistical services.   January 1, 1991  Action- plan adopted in
and monitoriU of social                                                                                                        August 1992
indicators
(b) Establish a permanent system of household survey.                         Starting 1991        System not put in place
19



Table 6: Studies included in the Program
Study                      Purpose               Status                  Impact
Petroleum products pricing   Revision of the pricing and  Completed   Contributed to the reform of the
and taxation study           taxation system and of the                petroleum sector consisting of
organization structure of the            liberalization of petroleum
sector.                                  importation, pricing and
commercialization, as well as creation
of one public entity responsible for
planning and regulation of the sector.
Taxation of the informal sector Identify ways to reduce tax  Completed   Resulted in the introduction of a 5%
evasion, particularly by the              tax rate levied on imports and public
informal sector.                          contracts but deductible from the
VAT and other indirect taxes.
Direct revenue taxation      Examine ways to establish a  Undertaken but None
unitary personal income tax    not completed
and a unitary company profit
tax.
Civil Servants remuneration    Revision of the existing   Completed   Analysis and recommendations
Policy                       remuneration policy in order              contributed to the introduction of a
to create a more efficient civil          new salary grid and to the
service with performance-                 harmonization of personnel
based remuneration.                       management systems of the civil
service directorate and the Central
Payroll Office (BCS).
Table 7: Program Financing
(in US$ Million)
Source                A praisal Estimate                     Actual
Local    Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign        Total
IDA                                 70.0       70.0                70.0         70.0
Cofinancing Institutions            38.0       38.0                86.2         86.2
African Dev. Bank                 (18.0)     (18.0)              (20.0)       (20.0)
European Unoin (EEC)              (20.0)     (20.0)              (22.0)       (22.0)
Germany                                                          (19.0)       (19.0)
Netherlands                                                      (20.5)       (20.5)
Switzerland                                                       (4.3)        (4.3)
Norway                                                            (0.4)        (0.4)
Other External Sources a/                                          150.0        150.0
Domestic Contribution                                  ____
TOTAL               108.0      108.0                306.2        306.2
a/ The IMF provided about US$27 million equivalent under its Structural Adjustment Facility;
about US$123 million was provided by France, USA, Canada and Japan.
20



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Article                                     Covenant                                     Compliance
Status
3.01(a)           The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request of  Complied.
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
_Program and the actions specific in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
3.01(b)           Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the  Complied.
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
3.02              Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and  Complied.
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03(a)           The Borrower shall arrange for studies and other technical assistance activities    Complied.
to support the adjustment of the Borrower's economy as provided in the
program. To that end, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
selected in accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the=Bank in August 1981.
3.04(a)           The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records and accounts  Complied.
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.04(b) (i)       The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of  Complied.
this Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
3.04(b) (ii)      The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any  Complied.
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested.
3.04(b) (iii)     The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other information concerning  Complied. Audit
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from  reports submitted
time to time reasonably request.                                        with substantial
delays.
3.04(c)           For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
3.04(c) (i)        maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this  Complied.
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
3.04(c) (ii)       retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report   Complied.
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
3.04(c) (iii)      enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and   Complied.
3.04(c) (iv)       ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audits referred  Complied.
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
21



Table 9: IDA Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Planned               Revised              Actual
Project Cycle        Staffweeks    US$    Staffweeks   US$   Staffweeks   US$
Preparation/Preappraisal       60.0       162.0       60.0     162.0       66.0     141.3
Appraisal                       80.0     216.0        80.0     216.0       69.0     175.4
Negotiations to Board          20.0       54.0        20.0      54.0       22.3      53.3
Supervision                   172.0      464.4       172.0     464.4      184.4     430.9
Completion                     19.5       52.7        19.5      52.7        6.3       14.0
TOTAL                351.5      949.1      361.5      949.1     348.0      814.9
Table 10: IDA Resources -- Staff Missions
Stage of       Month and  No. of  Days in       Special.     Performance Rating a/   Types of
Project Cycle       Year    Persons   Field      Staff Skills   Implementation    Dev.  Problems b/
Objectives
Through Appraisal      Jan-90       1        7     economist             -           -
Mar-90      4        17    economists            -            -
May-90      2        14    economists            -            -
Appraisal to Board     Nov-90       5       14    economists             -           -
Nov-90      2        12    economists            -            -
Board to Effectiveness   Apr-91     3        8     economists
Supervision            May-91       3        7     economists            2           2         M
Aug-91       1       9      economist            2           2         M
Oct-91       1       8      economist            2           2
| Nov-91       3       18    economists             2           2
|____________________ | Dec-91      1        5      energy specialist    -           -
I _________________ _ 0 Jan-92      1        10     economist
.__________________  Feb-92  1        5     economist
May-92       1       7      economist            -            -
l____________________   Jun-92      5        11    economists            2           2        M/O
Aug-92      2        15    economists            2           2         M
Nov-92      2        5      economists           -            -
Dec-92       1       18    economist
Feb-93       1       18    economist             -            -
Aug-93      2        9      economists           3           3       M/T/O
Oct-93       1       5      economist
Dec-93       1       8      economist            2           2         M
Mar-94       1       14    economist
Jun-94       1       7      economist            2           2         M
Completion             July-95      2       14    economists
TOTAL                     48       265
a/ Key to Rating: 1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems
b/ Key to Problem: M = Managerial; T = Technical; P = Political; 0 = Other
22






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL I)
(CREDIT 2188-MLI)
APPENDIX A - Borrower Contribution to the ICR
MINISTERE DES FINANCES                                 REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ET DU COMMERCE
UN PEUPLE - UN BUT - UNE FOI
SECRETARIAT
GENERAL
RAPPORT DE POST-EVALUATION
DU PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL PAS I
Le credit 2188-MLI "Programme d'Ajustement Structurel Phase r' s'est acheve le 30
juin 1995. Ce credit a appuye les efforts du Mali dans differents domaines concernds par les
reformes economiques sur la periode 1990-1993. A l'achevement de ce credit, il est prevu que
le Gouvernement, en collaboration avec la Banque mondiale, apprecie le deroulement du
programme tel qu'il a ete concu et execute, en differentes composantes. La presente note
retrace le point de vue de l'emprunteur sur le deroulement des differentes phases de l'operation.
I.    Rappel
Le Programme d'Ajustement Phase I, appuye par la Banque mondiale a ete le premier
programme de cette ampleur ayant implique a la fois autant de services de l'administration
publique ou parapublique que d'agents du systeme economique. nl etait ambitieux autant par ses
objectifs que par ses domaines dinter&. Le programme avait pour objectifs essentiels d'appuyer
les efforts d'ajustement entrepris dans le cadre de la Facilite d'Ajustement Structurel (FAS), par
des reformes profondes touchant:
- la gestion des ressources publiques et le processus d'allocation des ressources;
- la gestion des ressources humaines dans l'administration publique;
- le cadre institutionnel et reglementaire des affaires dont la fiscalite de porte, la
fiscalite interieure, le cadre d'echange des biens et services a savoir les procedures de commerce
exterieur, le code de commerce, le code des investissements et la creation d'entreprises;
23



II.    Conception et formulation des mesures du programme
Les etudes d'evaluation et d'identification des mesures ont ete menees, a l'exception
de celles relatives a la revision du code de commerce, par des cabinets et des bureaux de
consultants etrangers ayant eu, semble-t-il, une experience dans des cas similaires en
d'autrespays africains. Cette situation a cree une confusion qui tendait a identifier les
prestataires de services beneficiant de contrat d'etudes et la Banque mondiale, au sein des
differentes administrations. En effet, les consultants semblaient tous "venir de Washington".
L'appropriation des mesures a ete rendue quelque peu difficile par cet amalgame.
Im.   Modalites de mise en oeuvre des mesures du programme: facteurs qui l'ont
favorise ou freine
La mise en oeuvre des mesures a et grandement facilitee par la disponibilite des
operateurs economiques du secteur prive. Toutefois, une certaine resistance s'est manifestee au
sein des agents de l'administration s'occupant surtout de la reglementation economique. Cette
attitude provenait surtout de l'angoisse d'un systeme regule par les forces du marche, par
rapport a la "securite d'un systeme economique administre pendant plus de 20 ans". Cette
resistance a ete rapidement surmontee par la volonte politique clairement affirmee pour les
reformes.
IV.   Le degre de realisation des objectifs du programme
Les mesures retenues dans le cadre du programme ont ete entierement mises en
oeuvre. Toutefois, certains objectifs du programme, bien que realises, ont ete a la source de
nouveaux problemes. n1 s'agit du volet reinsertion des partants volontaires de la fonction
publique. En effet, certains fonctionnaires, candidats volontaires au programme de depart, ont
par la suite "regrettes leur geste" et se sont regroupes en associations devenues de veritables
groupes de pression en face du Gouvemement. Ces associations symbolisent les victimes de
l'ajustement structurel. Par ailleurs, afin de respecter les objectifs d'effectifs inscrits au
programme, le Gouvemement a dfi autoriser le depart des personnels socio-sanitaire, educatif
ainsi que le personnel charge des statistiques, tous initialement exclus du programme.
V.    Principaux facteurs qui ont freine la realisation des objectifs du programme
Le manque de sensibilisation a la reforme de la part des agents de l'administration et
des usagers de l'administration a ete le principal facteur ayant quelque peu retarde la realisation
des objectifs. Ainsi, dans le domaine de la reforme fiscale, la modification de la reglementation
a et, pendant un temps assez long, ignoree des agents et des operateurs qui contiuait a operer
de bonne foi selon l'ancien systeme. Le programme de depart volontaire a ete insuffisamment
explique aux candidats qui s'imaginaient beneficier d'avantages non prevus au programme.
24



VI.   La viabilite future des realisations du programme
Les resultats atteints dans le cadre du programme constituent des acquis qu'il faut
consolider. Les agents economiques et les admninistrations ont pu en apprecier tout l'inter&
apres la devaluation. En effet, grace au PAS qui a contribue fortement a donner a leconomie
toute sa flexibilite, le pays a pu le mieux profiter, plus que tous les autres pays de la zone, de la
devaluation du franc CFA intervenu en janvier 1994.
VII. La performance de la Banque mondiale durant les phases de conception, de
formulation, et de mise en oeuvre des mesures du programme, y compris
I'efficacite/inefficacite de ses relations avec la partie Malienne
Compte tenu de l'ampleur et de la profondeur des reformes, la performance de la
Banque mondiale est jugee satisfaisante. Elle aurait pu s'ameliorer n'eut et cet amnalgame entre
consultants et equipe de la Banque mondiale.
Certaines mesures ont fait l'objet de controverse dans leur mise en oeuvre du fait de
leur echec dans des pays voisins. Cette experience a et difficile a traduire dans la mise en
oeuvre du PAS I (c.i.d. la mise en place de l'imp6t unique dans la taxation des revenus). Le
programme de depart volontaire a et poursuivi, alors meme qu'il apparaissait clairement qu'il y
avait des difficultes qui necessitaient la revision des conditions de mise en oeuvre de ce
programme.
VIII. Les lecons que l'on peut en tirer pour l'avenir
* Le rythme et l'ampleur des reformes conduisent a penser que le processus de dialogue
doit etre assez long pour porter fruit.
* La sensibilisation et 1'explication du contenu des reformes sont la cle de vouite de la
reussite.
*   L'inteemalisation du processus par un contact avec les nationaux, pour les differents
messages, a l'adresse des administrations et des operateurs economiques s'av&e un
element fondamental.
*   Une large diffusion des textes modifies ainsi que leur accessibilite au public est un
gage de succes.
25






AaIc S:PfNISEH                    ALG5 0E                                                                                                                                                         5
Oceani                    -.R       ALGERIA                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, dcenominations and any other information
Ocean    HARAj  I   'N                                         "N                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group,
N~~~~~~~  N                                'N, N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legol status of any territory, or any endorsement
f   i   s                             !                        '                                           ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or occeptrJnce of such boundaries.
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                  0             150            300 KILOMETER5
MALI I
SENEGA/ )                    /  \NIGER                                                                                      N
B..o/'i(RKNU- 
GUI            Gt        FASO U                                                                                                                 A      L    G     E    R    I   A
I           '\    'COTE 'IOE               >i                                            
10'                                                                                                      ">
M                A  L                                              T O M BOCTOU   . U                                          _
20                    a0   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                            !                                                      p   jei.oIit k .
*   CERCLE CAPITALS                                         I                                            N                             _. -f-ii ZrJoe,sn                                /20
0    REGION CAPITALS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 0Arrosjne                                                   -'(R-G---Nr -
FLOOD AREA                                                                  R                                             K  E  G  - 
a-RIVERS 
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                        I                                                              ,fr'-    .       "
- -    REGION BOUNDARIES
---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   !                                           '
t                                                          \        _   Goun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*T m   tro , Bhrm        C.t     k       (       -
M A U R I T A N I A                               ?           e    _                          %tnoko
- - - -I   - -;         -- -   -  -    -   -sboro-Mooind    e                                      ,  >Ano%o
15'                     ,Aoor                        0                                    '.A -MO  T         0    *       0toni            .    L                                                                  15'
-                                               .Ks.405.                                 )~~~~~~~~~v)  o . t. Bn
Mye,           -I0.   RiE hKoo            Mo  l              TV5TkO       5'o
SENEGAL    , 0SwMo    NeIeoIo~                           ~j/J~'           RI EI C   -                                                      A
Y.O0t, sIie   RO0                                                            t.S       ondijw
U                  Ioti- or  -        -- od  -O         5 fBI7
kt    do4                 7;:        ,;.                                   iCn      ;&o 
SENEGA     SoL deugu   Ksobst  090 TA       ..
Is.       )'~~~jo  S~EGr               o 
-~~ ~.. -~          90*-Gok                   FoIdi Nioo.               KeRE   Y,ow 
_ _'1O                            f              urbrool& 93 0>7  sXi1>t>bi34 M   gou't,           o                          G U Ro  N  A  F Aon o                                      a             i
SRordoonor. Si  -     0   N
B..oh ~IKASS                                                                                                                                 NI G ERI A
2   CPITAL AREA                 9O0   'Koo        N1oSi,s
C              ~~G U I ? A                          Bdavo 
c[lo, ~~~~~~~~~~~i5,









IMAGING
Report No:      15644
Type: ICR



