                                      Documentof
                                   TheWorldBank




                                                        ReportNo.: 40070




                PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT


                                REPUBLICOFMALI

                   FIRSTSTRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                   (CreditNo. 2188)

                         ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
                                   (CreditNo. 2580)

                       ECONOMICMANAGEMENTCREDIT
                                    (CreditNo. 2894)

                   THIRD STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                    (CreditNo. 3582)

                                      June 15,2007




County Evaluation and Regional Relations
IndependentEvaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
(As ofDecember 31,2006)

CURRENCY UNIT=CFAFRANC                 (CFAF)
US$1= CFAF 498.07

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

AAA            Analytical and Advisory Activities
CFAF           CFA Franc
CMDT           Compagnie Maliennepour le De'veloppement des Textiles
DPC            Development Policy Credit
EEC            European Economic Commission
E M C          Economic Management Credit
ERC            Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU             EuropeanUnion
FDI            ForeignDirect Investment
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GNP            Gross National Product
HUICOMA        Huilerie Cotonni2re du Mali
HIPC           Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
ID             InstitutionalDevelopment
IEG            Independent EvaluationGroup (formerly OED)
IFC            International Finance Corporation
MDG            MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MIGA           Multilateral InvestmentGuarantee Agency
MRSC           Mission de Restructuration pour le Secteur Coton
M S M E        Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized Enterprises
MTEF           MediumTermExpenditure Framework
NPV            Net Present Value
ODA            Official Development Assistance
OED            Operations EvaluationDepartment (changed its name to IEGeffective December 2005)
PE             Public Enterprise
PESAP          Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project
PFP            Policy FrameworkPaper
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
PRGF           Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
UNDP           UnitedNations Development Program
VAT            Value Added Tax
WAEMU          West African Economic and Monetary Union

Fiscal Year
January 1-December 31


Director-General, Evaluation                               Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent EvaluationGroup                      Mr.Ajay Chibber
Senior Manager, IEGCR                                      Mr.Ali Khadr
Task Manager                                               Mr.GerardKambouand
                                                           Mr.James Sackey
PrimaryAuthor                                              Mr.Adil Kanaan

I   IEG Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.                        I
 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is producingthe
 expectedresults, and second, to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percentof the
 Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento thosethat are innovative,
 large, or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;thosefor which Executive
 Directorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelytogenerate importantlessons.
 The projects,topics, andanalyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluationstudies.
        A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluationbythe responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEG staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowingcountryfor onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augmentthe information provided inthe ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEG studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the IEG RatingSystem
        The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. IEG evaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEGwebsite:
 http://worldbank.org/IEG/eta-mainpage.html).
        Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectivesare consistent with the country's
 current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies).Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficacy: The extentto which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficiency: The extentto which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
        Susfainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
        InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human,financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignmentof the missionand capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
 institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Outcome: The extentto which the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
 achieved, efficiently.Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
        BankPerformance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regularoperationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
        BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
 quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
 achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

PrincipalRatings       ................................................................................................................      i

Key StaffResponsible           ......................................................................................................       ...
                                                                                                                                            111

Preface
      .................................................................................................................................     v

Summary  ..........................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                           vi1

1 BackgroundandStrategicContext
.                                                            ............................................................................   1

      Political....................................................................................................................         1
      Economic..................................................................................................................            2
      WorldBank GroupRelations with Mali and Other Donors....................................                                               3
      IDAAssistance Strategy...........................................................................................                     4
2 First StructuralAdjustmentCredit (SAC I)
 .                                                                           .............................................................  7

3 EconomicRecovery Credit
 .                                            ........................................................................................     11

4 EconomicManagementCredit
 .                                                    .................................................................................    15

5 The Third StructuralAdjustment Credit (SAC 111)
 .                                                                                          .............................................. 19

6 Evaluationof OverallOutcomes
 .                                                      ...............................................................................    25

      MacroeconomicPerformance ................................................................................                            25
      Sector Reforms ....................................................................................................... 26
      Poverty and the Millennium Development Goals..................................................                                       28
7 Lessonsfor the Future
 .                                     ...............................................................................................     31

Table 3.1 Mali.KeyMacroeconomic Indicators1985-1995                                      ......................................       12
Table 6.1 Mali.Key Macroeconomic Indicators (1992- 2005)                                     ...................................     25

Health(2000 -2004)
Table 6.2 Mali.PublicExpenditures on Basic Education and
                   .......................................................................................................           26
Table 6.3 Mali.Status of SelectedMDGTargets                          ........................................................        29


Annexes

Annex A: Basic Data Sheet    .............................................................................................            33

Annex B: Mali-Timeline of Major Events and Bank Outputs                                      ....................................     41

Annex C: The Supplemental Grant to SAC I11                         ...........................................................        43

Annex D: Related Operations        ........................................................................................           45

Annex E: IMFPrograms      ................................................................................................            49

Annex F: Macroeconomic Targets set by the MaliPPARCredits                                            .............................    51

Annex G: Main Public FinancialReform Provisions of the Mali PPAR Credits                                                          .....53
Annex H:List of Organizations and PersonsM e t                        ........................................................        55

                                                          1



PrincipalRatings


                                                 ICR *                      ICR Review **                           PPAR
Outcome                                      Satisfactory              ModeratelySatisfactory             ModeratelySatisfactory
Sustainability                                   Likely                         Likely                              Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment Impact               Not Rated                       Negligible                           Modest
Bank Performance                             Satisfactory                     Not Rated                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                         Satisfactory                     Not Rated                          Satisfactory




                                                  ICR *                     ICR Review **                          PPAR
Outcome                                    Highly Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                 Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                                   Likely                          Likely                             Likely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact                 Not Rated                        Modest                          Not Evaluable
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory                    Not Rated                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory                    Not Rated                          Satisfactory




                                                  ICR *                     ICR Review **                          PPAR
Outcome                                       Satisfactory            ModeratelyUnsatisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                                    Likely                         Likely                            Likely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact                   Modest                         Modest                             Modest
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                      Satisfactory




                                                   ICR *                     ICR Review **                         PPAR
Outcome                                        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                                    Likely                          Likely                            Likely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact                  Negligible                       Modest                            Modest
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
'* The ICR Review is an intermediate IndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) product that seeks to independentlyverify the
findings of the ICR.


                                      ...
                                      111



Key Staff Responsible


Project              Task Manager-Leader       Division Chief/   Country Director
                                              Sector Director
 Appraisal            Fabien Nsengiyumva     LawrenceE. Hinkle   MoniqueP. Garrity
 Completion           Fabien Nsengiyumva      Birger Fredriksen  Francois Laporte*
* Lead Economist



Project              Task ManagedLeader        Division Chief/   Country Director
                                              Sector Director
 Appraisal              Victoria Kawka        Jean-Louis Sarbib  Katherine Marshall
 Completion           NanasamuddChhim         Birger Fredriksen  Jean-Louis Sarbib




Economic Management Credit (Credit No. 2894)
Project              Task ManagedLeader        Division Chief/   Country Director
                                               Sector Director
 Appraisal              Victoria Kawka          HasanTuluy       BirgerFredriksen
 Completion            ChristinaWoods         EmmanuelAkpa        A. David Craig




Project              Task ManagedLeader        Division Chief/    Country Director
                                               Sector Director
  Appraisal          ChristinaWood / Patrick   EmmanuelAkpa /      A. DavidCraig
                             Labaste         Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
  Completion             ChristinaWood           RobertBlake       A. DavidCraig


                                              V



Preface
        This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) evaluates the four structural
adjustment lendingoperations to the Republic o fMali from 1990to 2003.

        The First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) SDR 50.3 million(equivalent
                                                        for
to US$70 million) was approved bythe Bank's Board on December 11, 1990. Itwas co-
financed bythe EuropeanEconomic Commission(EEC), the African Development Bank
(AfDB), andthe governments ofthe Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, andNorway,
for a total o fUS$86.2 million equivalent. Itwas also associatedwith additional financing
totalingUS$123 million from the governments o f France, the USA, Canada, andJapan;
as well as a disbursement o fUS$27 million equivalent inconjunctionwith the first
annual agreement under an IMFEnhanced StructuralAdjustment Facility (ESAF)
arrangement. The total financing package associated with this operation was over
US$306 millionequivalent.

        The EconomicRecoveryCredit (ERC) o f SDR 18.2million(US$25 million) was
approvedbythe Bank's Boardon March 17, 1994. It was associatedwith a disbursement of
SDR29.46 million inconjunctionwiththe second annual agreementunderthe FundESAF.

        The EconomicManagement Credit (EMC) o f SDR 41.6 million(US$60 million)
was approved by the Bank's Board on June 27, 1996. Although not formally co-financed,
the project reportedly attracted financing from the governments o fthe Netherlands,
Canada, andthe USA, as well as from the EuropeanUnion(EU), and the AfDB.

        The Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 111)for SDR 55 million
(US$70 million) was approved bythe Bank's Board onDecember 11,2001. It was
associatedwith additional financing from the IMF, and the governments of France and
the Netherlands. This credit was supplementedby an IDA grant o f SDR 10.5 million
(US$15 million) inDecember 2003.

        This PPAR is basedonthe relevant documents for the four operations reviewed
bythe Bank's Board, and other documents relevant for understanding the context o fthe
operations reviewed. They include country assistance strategies, IMFreports, and
Economic and Sector Work (ESW) reports. The PPAR is also based on interviews,
conducted duringa missionto Mali inJuly 2005, with government officials andmembers
of civil society who were knowledgeable o f Bank support inthe areas reviewed; with
Bankstaffat headquarters andinthe Bamako office; with IMFstaff; andwith staffof
resident offices o f some o fthe other donors active inMali.

        Comments from the Bank's RegionalManagement have been incorporated. The
draft PPARwas sent to the Government o fMali for comments, but no comments were
received.

        This report was preparedbyAdil Kanaan (Consultant), with Gerard Kambou and
James Sackey as Task Managers. Janice Joshi, Vikki Taaka and Cecilia Tan provided
administrative support.


                                             vii


Summary

1.      This ProjectPerformance AssessmentReport (PPAR) evaluatesthe four structural
adjustment credits to the Republic o fMali from 1990to 2003: the 1990 SAC I(IDA-
US$70 million; co-financing-US$306.2 million), the 1994 ERC (IDA-US$25 million),
the 1996 EMC (IDA-US$60 million), andthe 2001 SAC 111(IDA-US$70 million, plus
IDA Supplementary grant o fUS$15 million; co-financing-US$20 million).

2.       The strategic context for these loans was articulated ina set o fcountry assistance
strategies andrelateddocuments spanning the period 1990-2003. The main themes o f
these country strategies emphasized the following objectives: (i)  promoting economic
growthwithin a stable macroeconomic environment; (ii)       promoting sectoral and
structural reforms, and; (iii) supporting poverty reduction through improvements in
humanresource development.

3.       The four operations andthe supplement to SAC 111,totaling US$240milliono f
IDA resources andUS$326.2 milliono f donor co-financing, supported reforms in
macroeconomic stabilization, includingtrade, pricingpolicies, and fiscal andpublic
expenditure management, which had satisfactory outcomes. Other major objectives
supportedbythe four operations, including civil service reform, improving access o f
women to landandcredit, and reformingthe very important cotton sector had
unsatisfactory outcomes.

4.       Despite the progress made inachieving macroeconomic stabilization, the
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks becauseo f its dependenceon a few
major products. The economy also continued to depend heavily on external financial aid
anddebt relief. Progress onpovertyreductionhad also beenslow, although atwo percent
average growth inrealper capita income was realizedover the last decade. There were
also encouraging improvements insocial indicators, especially ineducation. Onthe basis
o f these developments, the overall outcome o fBank assistance inthe four operations i s
rated moderately satisfactory, with sustainability rated likely and institutional
development impact rated as modest.

5.       The main lessons learned from this review are:

     Country ownership o fthe reform process matters very much. For those components
     o fthe reform process, such as the public resource management, inwhich government
     commitment was strong, reformswere generally well implemented. Bycontrast, for
     those reform components inwhich country commitment was not as strong, such as
     civil service restructuring, gender development, and fundamental cotton sector
     reform, outcomes were poor.

                                     ...
                                   Vlll



It would bebetter to keep the design o f adjustment operations simple andfocused
on a limitednumber ofkey policy areas, whose implementationcanbe
realistically expected withinthe short disbursement perioddictatedby an
adjustment operation. A well designed monitoring and evaluation system could
complement this effort.




                                                            Vinod Thomas
                                                           Director-General
                                                              Evaluation

                                               1


1.      Background and Strategic Context

Political

1.1     Malibecameindependent from France in 1960. Following a military coup in
1968, General Moussa Traork took over power and governed for about 23 years. During
this period, the military leadership attempted to pursue economic reforms but for several
years faced debilitating internalpolitical struggles anddisastrous sahelian drought. By
1990, there was growing dissatisfaction among the general populationwith the demands
for austerity brought about by the economic reforms.

1.2     A major uprisingledby students andcivil servants in1991ledto the formation of
a new transition government. Following a consultative process, Colonel Amadou
Toumani Tour6 was appointed President. This transitionperiod and the consultation
involved laid the groundwork for the evolutiono fthe buddingdemocracy inthe country.

1.3     InJune1992,Alpha0.Konarkbecamethefirst electedPresidentfor afive-year
term. This period was characterized by attempts by the government to balance between
the prerogatives ofthe new democracy and the re-establishment o f state authority,
following the social turmoil associatedwith the uprising. The students andcivil servants,
who hadbeen instrumental inbringingabout the transition to democracy, had also
become apotent political force with demands oftheir own. This period also witnessed the
intensificationo fthe Touareg rebellioninthe north, the rippleeffects o f which continue
to this day. Inview o fthis instability, three cabinet reshuffles took place between June
1992 and December 1994. Fortunately, despite the politicalunrest, economic
liberalizationmovedforward steadily.

1.4     Parliamentary andpresidentialelections took place in 1997 inan atmosphere of
heightenedpolitical turbulence and protests by the opposition. President Konark was re-
elected for a secondterm.

1.5     The Spring2002 presidentialelections saw the returnofPresident Amadou
Toumani Tour6 to power, as an elected civilian. H e appointedAg Hamani as Prime
Minister (PM). Mr.Hamaniwas re-appointed as PM following the parliamentaryelection
inJuly2002. Hesubsequently resigned andwas succeededbyOusmane IssoufiMaiga.

1.6     Inanutshell, although the23-year ruleofMoussaTraork was characterizedbythe
socialist-type foundations o f an e'tatisteeconomy, there were periods inthe early 1980s
when economic liberalization policies were pursued.Inthe early 1990s, Mali embarked
on a dual program o fpolitical democratization and economic liberalization. Relative
political stability hasprevailedsince then, punctuatedwith some turbulence related to the
continuing Tuareg rebellion. Inaddition, major economic policy decisions have hadto
factor inthe importance ofthe lobby o f students and civil servants, as well as the interests
ofmanagerso f some remainingandpowerful public enterprises.

                                               2


Economic

1.7     Mali is a large, land-lockedcountry with a limited resource endowment and an
underdeveloped physicalinfrastructure. Transportation within its distant regions i s
cumbersome, and accessto ports inthe regioni s difficult. Itis among the poorest
countries inthe world, with aper capita gross national income o fUS380 in2005. The
level ofhumanresource development i s very low. Inthe 2006, Mali ranked 175 out o f
177 countries inthe UNDP human development index.

1.8     The country's productionhasbeen dominatedby agricultural commodities, made
up o fcereal crops, cottonand livestock. The exploitationo fgold has accelerated andhas
recently started to exceed cotton interms o fvalue o f exports. However, barring
significant new discoveries, its productionhas already peaked and cannot bereliedupon
for too long into the future.

1.9     A keycharacteristic ofthe economy is its fragility becauseofits significant
dependence on exogenous factors. Chef among those is the unpredictability and
variability o frainfall, andits effects on cotton productionand exports. Another i s the
unpredictable movements inthe international prices o f gold and cotton, Mali's main
exports. Regionalpolitics i s another factor. Any major political turmoil inMali's
immediate neighborhoodcan be a significant exogenous shock to the economy, as has
been the case with the political crisis inCote d'Ivoire that erupted inSeptember 2002.
Finally, inview o fMali's very difficult economic situation due to these factors, it
continues to be highly dependent on foreign aid for its financial survival. Although this
aid hasbeen forthcoming, the persistent need for it does represent a source o f economic
fkagility.

1.10 Mali's push, at independence in 1960, for rapid growth andindustrialization
through a state-led development strategy ledto serious macroeconomic imbalances inthe
early 1980sas debt arisingfrom government's massive investment programs mounted.
Throughout much o f the 1970s, the fiscal deficit averaged inexcess o f 5 percent o f GDP,
financed largely from external official flows. For most o f the 1960s and 1970s, economic
policy became increasinglyinward-looking, with highprotection, controls over imports
andmanyprices, and a proliferationo fpublic enterprises inall sectors. The government,
with the encouragement o fthe donor community, adopted stabilization andstructural
adjustment programs supportedby the IMF andthe World Bankbeginningin 1982 in
order to address its budgetaryandbalance o fpayments problems and to restore growth.

1.11 The stabilizationmeasureshelped reduce the budgetdeficit, brought inflation
under control, andimprovedthe external accounts. Cerealmarkets were liberalized, most
price controls were eliminated andtrade monopolies abolished. These efforts attempted
to reduce the state's role inthe economy; andto stabilize it. Butwhile the reforms
reversedthe economic decline inthe early 1980s, they were insufficient to spur private
sector-led growth. Price controls andhigheffectiverates o fprotectionremainedon some
key products; reforms o fpublic enterprise inelectricity, telecommunication, railroad and
air transport were only partial; the regulatory and administrative frameworks were
cumbersome and legal institutions weak; the financial sector was inefficient and lacked

                                                   3


depth; and rigiditiespersisted inthe labormarket. Inaddition, while as a member o fthe
CFA Franc (CFAF) zone, Mali benefited from monetary stability and low inflation for an
extended period, inthe mid-1 9 8 0 the~ fixed paritywith the French franc (FF) had
                                          ~
become incompatiblewith the sustained deteriorationo fthe CFA zone's terms o ftrade
andthe sharp appreciation ofthe Frenchfranc against the U.S. dollar', malungitdifficult
to promote export-oriented activities. Insum, at the start o fthe periodunderreview, a
deepening ofreforms andrenewed government commitment to their implementation were
neededto movethe economy onto a patho fhghand sustained growth.

World BankGroupRelationswithMali andOther Donors

1.12     Mali became a member o fthe World Bank and IDAin 1963. Since then, the Bank
has maintained a close partnership with the country andhas beenactive ina number o f
key economic sectors and areas, including agriculture andrural development, human
resource development, infrastructure and, more recently, structural adjustment. During
the reviewperiod o f this report, the relationshipwent through many cycles, depending on
the Government's willingness to accelerate reforms. This, inturn, was influencedby
domestic political developments. Since the coming to power o fthe administrationo f
PresidentTraork, the relationship hasbeen on a positive upwardtrend, with the Bank's
Country Office inBamako, which was established in 1976, playing a role that i s being
appreciatedby the government andthe resident donor community.

1.13     As o fNovember 2005, there were eleven ongoing IDA-supportedprojects
covering the areas listedabove. Commitments under these projects amounted to
US$478.4 million. This i s inaddition to two projects supported through GEF grants, for a
total o fUS$9 million. IFC's portfolio inMali as o fNovember 2005 amounted to US$8.6
million, including interests intwo miningcompanies. Mali is aparticipant inthejoint
IDNIFC Micro, Small, and Medium-SizedEnterprises (MSME) Initiative inSub-
SaharanAfrica. The Mali component ofthis initiative i s part o f a proposedUS$55
million loanto the country intendedfor SME development, mining, telecommunications,
andpostalreforms. Malijoined MIGA in1992. MIGA's outstanding portfolio consists o f
two contracts o f guaranteewith aUS$25.2 milliongross exposure, involving a
Senegaleseinvestor ina major telecommunications project.

1.14     There is a large community o f donors active inMali. While donor coordination
hadbeenpoor, coordinationseems to have recently started to improve, with the
government playing a more active role since the adoption o f the 2002-2006 PRSP. The
Government holds periodic meetingswith major donors, chaired by the Minister o f
Economy and Finance. Donors holdmonthly meetingsthemselves, with the chair rotating
every six months and alternating between bi-laterals andmulti-laterals. The donors

'Malii  s a member o f the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) which, together with
the CentralAfrican Economic andMonetary Union (CAEMU) and the Comoros, form the Communauti
FinanciBre Afiicaine (CFA) franc zone. The other members ofthe WAEMU are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote
d'Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. OnJanuary 12, 1994, the CFA zone countries agreed
unanimously to change the parity of the CFAF from 1FF= SOCFAF, the prevailing rate since 1948, to 1FF
= 100CFAF. Since 1999, the CFAF hasbeentiedto the euro.

                                                   4


resident inBamako broadly feel that the Bank could do better at consultingwith them
andkeepingthem informed, while they admit that the situationhas been improving
recently.

1.15    TheBankcoordinated its activities regarding its structural adjustment operations
and its macroeconomic dialogue very closely with the IMF. Three o fthe four operations
reviewedinthis report were associatedwith parallel IMFarrangements, which, jointly
with the support throughthe Bank's operations, deserve credit for the country's improved
macroeconomic performance (see Annex E).Inaddition, both the Bank andthe Fund
coordinatedjointly with the Government inthepreparation o f important strategic and
policy documents such as the Policy Framework Paper associatedwith SAC I, the                  and
PRSP andPRSP annual progress reports associatedwiththe subsequent adjustment
operations. The IMFtook the leadinthe discussions with the Government leadingto the
devaluation o fthe CFAF in 1994, with the Bankplaying a supporting role.

IDA Assistance Strategy

1.16    Main themes (1990-2005). The mainthemes that were present throughout the
reviewperiod andwere includedas components inallthe country assistance strategies
are: (i)promoting economic growth within a stable macroeconomic environment: (ii)
promoting sectoral structural reforms; and (iii)        supporting poverty reductionthrough
developing humanresources. The first was to be achieved by improvingthe incentives
systemandthe overallbusiness environment for private sector development. The second
and thirdwere to be achieved by improving public expenditure management, both for
better overall fiscal Performance andto ensure sufficient funding for social services. A
thirdmajortheme that hasbeenrepeated inmore thanone country assistance strategy
was the promotion o finstitutional development and good governance.

1.17    The early 1990speriod. A review o f available Bank reports didnot reveal any
stand-alone country assistance strategy inthe early 1990s. An internal review for the
1990 SAC I,   however, included a section onBank Group assistance strategy insupport o f
a Policy FrameworkPaper (PFP) that hadbeen agreedwith the government*. The main
objective o fthat strategy was to assist the government infostering growth with equity, as
keyto poverty alleviation. It sought to do that by focusing onthree areas: (i)
rationalizing the incentives system to promoteprivate sector growth; (ii)               improving
public resource management to reduce the fiscal deficit, while assuring the efficient
provision o f essentialpublic services; and (iii)       alleviating long term resource constraints
by strengthening the humanresourcebase andnaturalresourcemanagement.

1.18    The mid-1990s country assistance strategy. This strategy was prepared and
processedon the heels o f the devaluation o fthe CFAF inJanuary 1994 andthe
Emergency Recovery Credit which hadbeen approved inMarch o fthat year. President
KonarC hadbeeninoffice for almost two years, andprogress was being made inpolitical
democratization and economic liberalization. The country assistance strategy, which

 The Bank's assistance strategy was formally stated in the early 1990s in the context o f the Natural
Resource Management Project and updated in FY93 in the context o fthe Private Sector Assistance Project.

                                              5


coveredthe mid-to-late 1990speriod, stressedthat, incontrast to the pre-devaluation
periodwhen the emphasis was necessarily on domestic adjustment, the devaluation called
for a shift instrategic focus to external adjustment inorder to preserve any increases in
competitiveness brought about bythe devaluation. The main strategic objectives were: (i)
economic growth; (ii) resource development; and (iii) vulnerable groups;
                        human                                  helping
all inthe context o f a stable macroeconomic environment and an improvement in
institutional capacity.

1.19     The late 1990s country assistancestrategy. This strategy was originally intended
to cover the late-1990s to the early-2000 period, but was de-facto extended to FY03
while the Bank supportedthepreparation ofMali's PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
(PRSP). The PRSP was completed about a year after the second-term ofPresident
KonarC, which ended inJune 2002.

1.20    Buildingonthe government's own development strategy at the time the country
assistancestrategy, jointly prepared with IFC, focused on two mainareas for Bank Group
support: (i)  humanresourcedevelopment; and(ii) growth, basedprimarilyon
                                                     stable
private sector development. The strategy notedthat IDA support would also address a
number of cross-cutting issues such as capacity building, decentralization, environmental
protection, gender development, regional cooperation, and cultural development. But
very little inIDA'Sprogram duringthe country assistance strategy periodwas designed
to addressthese issues, except for the gender component o fEMC.

1.21     TheJuly 2003 country assistancestrategy. Bythe time this country assistance
strategy was beingprepared, the economy hadbeen trying to adjust for about ten months
to the repercussions o f the Cote d'Ivoire crisis, whose adverse effects continued well into
the periodo fthis country assistancestrategy. A milestoneonthe economic front was that
Mali hadreached the CompletionPoints ofthe Original and the EnhancedHIPC
Initiatives inSeptember2000 andMarch2003, respectively. Onthe political front,
Amadou Toumani Tour6, bythen a civilian, hadbeen elected President in2002 andhad
proclaimedthe intention ofhis administration to carry on with the economic reform
efforts.

1.22     The government's economic reformprogramwas now embodied ina PRSPthat
rested on four pillars: (i)accelerated andre-distributive growth, considered the "pre-
requisite pillar"; (ii)
                      promoting institutional development, while improving governance
andparticipation; (iii) development ofhumanresources and improved access to
                         the
quality basic services; and (iv) the development o fbasic infrastructureandproductive
sectors. This represented a rather all-encompassing andnon-discriminating strategic
agenda. Inthe Joint StaffAssessment o fthe PRSPby the Fundand the BankinMarch
2003, which was endorsed bythe Boards o fthese two institutions, the two institutions
called uponthe government to set tighter priorities among its strategic objectives, with
special emphasis on reducingpoverty and accelerating social development.

                                            6


1.23   This country assistance strategy, which covers the FY04-06period, and was
extended defacto through FY08,took the PRSPas its startingpoint and focused on three
mainthemes: (i) promoting growth; (ii)   developinghumanresources; and (iii)improving
public finance management and governance. A primary objective o fthe overall strategy
underpinning these three themes was to assist Mali achieve progress toward meetingthe
MDGs.

                                               7


2.       First StructuralAdjustment Credit (SAC I)

2.1    Background and Context. Inthe early 1980s Mali faced a serious economic and
financial crisis due to recurringdroughts, a decline inthe terms o ftrade, and
inappropriate economic policies. The government launched a series o f stabilization and
adjustment programs in 1982. Initial progress eroded in 1986 following a sharp drop in
the world price o f cotton, and deteriorated further into amajor economic crisis in 1987.
Between 1985 and mid-1988, there were no new lendingoperations by the Bank inview
ofwhat the Bankconsidered to be very poor macroeconomic and sector policies at the
time. The government resumed its adjustment efforts inmid-1988 and, with the
assistance ofthe Bank and the Fund, prepared a PFP covering the 1988-90. A second
PFP, covering the 1990-92, focused on five areas: (i)   the incentives system for private
sector development; (ii)  public resource management; (iii) o fthe cotton sector;
                                                              reform
(iv) restructuring o fthe PE sector; and (v) reform o fthe financial sector.

2.2     Objectivesand Design. The mainobjective o f SAC Iwas to support two o fthe
five areas ofthe second PFP: the incentives system andpublic resources management.
The incentives systemcomponent includedmeasures to: (i)        simplifyandrationalize
foreigntrade taxation; (ii) restructure direct and indirect taxation; and (iii)
                                                                              remove
regulatory constraints facing private sector development. The public resources
management component includedmeasures designedto: (i)          restructure current
expenditures; (ii) reform the civil service; and (iii)improve the programming and
monitoring o fpublic investment. The IDA credit was disbursed inthree tranches,
following the fulfillment o ftranche conditions pertainingto the policy reforms outlined
above.

2.3     Relevance of Objectivesand Design. The objectives, components and specific
measuresunderlyingthis credit were consistent with the government's reform objectives
andBankassistancestrategy; they werebasedonthe PFPwhichwasjointly preparedby
the government, the Bank and the Fund.The Bank andthe Fundtook the lead,
conceptually and analytically, inarticulating the substantive contents o f SAC I. They
were then able to convince some o fthe keyMalian interlocutors, such as the Minister o f
Finance at the time, o fthe desirability o fthe proposed policy measures, particularly those
concerning trade. Those interlocutors, inturn, hadto convince their colleagues in
government and the President.This was not always easy; but inthe end, Bank staff felt
that the mainpolicy measures enjoyedsufficient support to proceedwith processing the
credit.

2.4     A basic question that ariseswhenassessingthe design ofthis operation is: as long
as Mali had a fixed and over-valuedexchange rate, was a structural adjustment operation
appropriate at the time? And ifso, giventhe exchange rate issue, was the design o f SAC I
appropriate? Since the country was ina deep financial crisis by the late 1980s, it was in
urgentneedof fast financial support. The fact that a significant group from the
international donor community put together a substantial financial package exceeding
US$300millionto help out was testimony to the size ofMali's financial needs.
Meanwhile, the overvalued CFAF itselfhad developed into apolitically charged issue
andthere were limitsto how muchthe Bankcouldpushfor its devaluation. It appears

                                             8


thenthat the Bankhadlittlechoicebutto go inwitha fast-disbursing operation ina sub-
optimal situation, limitedto "internal adjustment" measures. It did so incoordination
with the IMF.

2.5     Underthe circumstances, the design o fthe operation was good, except for
including a civil service reform sub-component ina fast-disbursing credit, without
sufficient preparation and strong commitment by the Borrower. The set o fmeasures
includedinall three incentives system sub-components andintwo o f the three public
resources management sub-components werejustified. To a great extent, they represented
necessarybut not sufficient conditions for improving overall economic performance once
the exchangerategot moreproperlyaligned. Thus, the lesson from the ICRthat the
internal adjustment could not havebeen expected to produce the requiredgrowth was
correct.

2.6     Implementation andAchievement of Objectives The following measureswere
implementedunderthe incentives system component: elimination o fall importrestrictions
andexport taxes; replacement of specific taxesbyad-valorem taxes; reduction ofthe fiscal
imports tax from 27 percent to 3 percent; replacement o fthe existingtax on goods and
servicesby a value addedtax (VAT); introductiono f a decliningtax on 18 categorieso f
locallyproduced goods; andliberalization o fthe pricing system for petroleum products.
A numberofadministtative reforms were also implemented, including: simplificationo f
import andexport formalities; revisiono fthe commercial, investment and labor codes;
simplificationo fprocedures for the establishment o f enterprises; andmodificationo fthe
institutional framework governing the petroleum sector; anddisengaging the state from all
activities relatedto petroleumproducts.

2.7      As for the public resources management component, progress was achieved in
strengtheningbudgetarycontrol andmonitoringprocedures, andincreasing allocations to
priority expenditure categories. However, the civil service reform sub-component
encountered serious problems, and the public investment sub-component suffered from
weak institutionalcapacity andthe inclusionof some projects inthe investment program
without proper economic justification, such as the Palais des Congris deBamako. The
civil service reform sub-component, inparticular, had a numbero f serious
implementationdifficulties, including problems with the voluntary departure program
that endedupwith distorted incentives. The Bank was keento help improve the
perfonnance o fthe public sector by controllingpublic expenditures, andtherefore,
includedmeasures designed to limit increasesto the public sector wage bill, and to
reduce the number o f civil servants through a "voluntary departure" paymentshncentives
scheme. However, according to a numbero fMalian officials involved inthe
implementationo fthis credit, the civil service ended up losing some o f its better
personnel, including manyexperienced teachers o f technical and vocational schools who
opted to take advantage o fthe incentives. Some o f these schools had to be closed at a
timewhenthe countryneeded themmost, andthe economy is still tryingto makeup for
this shortageto this date. Another ironyreportedwas that the availability ofthe funds
from the IDA credit andrelated financing by other donors made itpossible to resume
salary payments that hadbeen interrupted, countering the intento fthe voluntary
departure incentives scheme. Some employees who had already departed wantedto

                                                 9


rejoin, and suedthe government incourt when they were refusedre-entry. The unionof
civil service employees also suedthe government for bloclung salary increases. The
perceptionthat this component had ironic andperverse results i s generally heldbyboth
Malian officials and representatives o fthe donor community inBamako. The main
conclusionreachedbythe authorities andthe donor community inrelation to this
component i s that it was not a good idea to include a politically difficult civil service
reformcomponent inan adjustment operation, andto impose an unrealistically fast pace
o freform inan area that neededmuchmore time for successhlimplementation.

2.8     Outcome. The following factors had an adverse effect onproject achievement: (i)
the disturbances o fMarch 1991that ledto the demise o fthe military dictatorship, but that
also disruptedeconomic activity and severely affectedthe administrationo fthe program;
(ii) fallinthepriceofcotton,whichledtopoorgrowthperformanceandbudgetary
    the
difficulties; (iii)
                  an overvalued CFAF that made Malian exports uncompetitive; and (iv)
weak administrative capacity, which particularly affected the monitoring o fpublic
investmentandpovertyindicators. Therefore, despite the successfbl implementationof
several important measuresunder the incentives system component, actual growth
stagnated and fell below expectations in 1990 (0.4 percent compared to 3 percent), 1991
(minus0.9 percent comparedto 3.9 percent), and 1993 (minus2.4 percent comparedto
4.2 percent); although it exceededexpectations in 1992 (8.4 percent compared to 5.9
percent). Although the shortcomings inthe implementation o f the credit inthe civil
service areawere significant, onbalance achievements intrade and tax policy, regulation,
and the increase inthe proportiono f expenditures on the social sectors leadto a ratingo f
moderatelysatisfactory.

2.9     Sustainability. Despite the continuedvulnerability o fthe economy to external
shocks, andthe resultant erratic nature o f overall economic growth andperformance; the
structural reforms o fthe incentives systemcomponent, andbudget management
improvementmeasures implementedunder this credit appear to have taken hold
sufficiently to justify a ratingo f likely to the sustainabilityo fthe results achieved.

2.10    Institutional DevelopmentImpact. The credit's institutionaldevelopment (ID)
impact was modest.This ratingi s based on the observation that althoughmeasureslike
the introductiono f a VAT were accompanied by the creation o f an appropriate
administrative apparatus, and the administrative and procedural measures applied to
improve budgetmanagement helpedlay the foundation for strengthening the capacity o f
the Ministryo fEconomy andFinance, they represented an encouraging but limited
strengthening o f institutional capacity.

2.11 Bank Performance. At the time when this credit was beingprepared, the country
was still underthe Traor6 regime andanktatiste economic structure. The mainreasonthe
Government was ready to embark on abroad economic reformprogramwas that the
economy was indeep crisis. Itwas, therefore, opportune for the Bankto play a central role
inassistingthecountry to embark onsuchapath, throughastructural adjustment operation
which helpedmobilize a substantial amount o f financing to help Mali. The leadershprole
playedbythe Bankwas appreciatedbythe Malian authorities andthe donor community.
Onthe other hand, the design ofthe credit was ambitious, andthepoliticallyand

                                             10


technically difficult civil service reformcomponent was not sufficiently well preparedto be
implemented effectively undera fast-disbursing credit. Moreover, some o fthe Malian
officials concerned felt that the Bankwas heavyhandedinimposingits conditions, some o f
whichwere viewed as unrealistic by the authorities, who went alongbecausethe country
neededthe funds. However, onbalance, the Bank's overallperformance is considered
satisfactory as inthe ICR.

2.12    Borrower Performance. Incooperation with the Bank and the Fund, the
government prepared a PFPwhich laidthe strategic basis for this credit, andit
implemented a wide set o f good adjustment measuresunder the incentives system
component. However, due inpart to technical capability constraints, the officials were
too ready to agree to some o fthe conditions, particularlyunder the civil service reform
component, whenthey knew inadvance that they would not be able to implement them at
the pace envisioned. Inaddition, implementationsuffered duringthe political
disturbances and transitionperiod (April 1991-June 1992)' due to staff disruptions and
preoccupationwiththe events at the time. Still, becausethe adjustment measures
implemented were significant, the Borrower's overall performance is ratedsatisfactory as
inthe ICR.

2.13    LessonsLearned. The mainlessonslearned from this operationwere that: (i)a    in
situation where the Borrower lacks sufficient technical capabilities andis indire needo f
external financing, the Bank should ensure that its proposals and conditions are well
understoodandtruly accepted. It should listenmorecarehlly and go a step fwther by
actively solicitingthe Borrower's views and endorsement and (ii)civil service reform
                                                                   a
component needsto bewell-prepared and agreeduponinadvanceifit is to be includedina
fast-disbursing adjustment operation; otherwise, a separateinstitutionaldevelopment
project is probably preferable.

                                             11


3.     Economic Recovery Credit

3.1    Background, Context, and Objectives. The mainobjective o fthe Economic
RecoveryCredit (ERC) was to provide emergency financial support to Mali to help it
overcome adverse short term repercussions, particularly on vulnerable groups, o fthe
devaluation o fthe CFAF inJanuary 1994. Inorder to meet the urgentneedfor fimds, the
credit was processed on a fast-track basis inonly three months from conception to
approval. Inaddition, the operation aimedto support the continuedimplementationo fthe
reformprogramwhich was based onthe 1994-96 PFP, andwhich was expected to
increase the competitiveness o f the economy andto encourage private sector-led growth.
An ancillary objective was the desire to continue the policy dialoguebetween the Bank
and Mali.

3.2    Relevance of Objectivesand Design. Inview o f its emergency nature, the
operation hada relatively straight-forward design. The single tranche, which needed to be
disbursedquickly, was made available uponeffectiveness and subject to a set o f 14prior
actions covering fiscal, monetary, trade liberalization, pricing, and social safety net
measures. Thejustification for this credit andits accommodating design andrapid
processing were basedon the fact that a significant depreciation o fthe CFAF was needed
to make the economy more competitive and to engender significant growth inthe
mediumto longterm. The previous internal adjustment efforts that hadbeensupportedby
SAC Ihadproveninsufficient, andthe Bankandthe Fundhadbeenpressing for amajor
devaluation. Since the benefits o fthe devaluation were expected to accrue only over
some time inthe future, the credit and the associated IMFfunds were needed to help out
to alleviate hardships and to encouragethe continuation ofreforms.

3.3     Implementation and Achievement of Objectives.The achievement o f overall
program objectives was substantial. The credit provided about 14.2 percent o f overall
budgetary support for Mali in 1994, andits timely availability allowed the country to
withstand the financial effects ofthe devaluation, while maintaining overall
macroeconomic stability. Most o fthe 14prior actions ina wide range o fpolicy areas
were implementedby end-January 1994, more than six weeks prior to credit approval. As
such, the credit was ineffect justifiedby actions that had already beentaken, rather than
beingpre-conditioned by actions to come.

3.4     Outcome. The overallmacroeconomic results for 1994 and 1995 were quite
favorable when one compares actual results to programprojections, particularly with
regardto overall growth andthe fiscal balance (see Table 3.1). While it i s difficult to
determine how much o f this good performance was due to the devaluation itself and how
muchto the policies embodied inthe prior conditions, it appears fair to attribute credit for
the improvedmacro performancejointly to the Bank andthe Fund(see Annex E).

3.5     Interms ofstructural reforms, progress was madeinthree areas: (i)      pricing
policies became more flexible; (ii)  some good agricultural sector measureswere taken,
includingpassing on the increase inCFAF values o f agricultural exports to the producers;
and (iii)a significant number o f PESwere either restructured or privatized.

                                                       12



Table 3.1 M a l i Key Macroeconomic Indicators 1985-1995
                     -
                                            1985-1993          1994                1995
                                                         Program   Actual  Program     Actual
Real GDP Growth(%)                             1.7         2.4      2.3        5.1       6.0
Change inCPI("h)l'                             -0.8        40.1    24.8        8.0      12.4
Investment`GDP (%)                            21.1         26.9    26.5       26.0      26.0
OverallBudget Balance (% GDP;
excluding grants)                             -10.5       -15.1    -13.7      -12.4     -10.5
Current Account Balance ("hGDP;
excluding official transfers) l'              -14.6       -20.4    -18.2      -14.5     -15.2
"Datarefer to 1989-1993.
Source: 1994-1996Policy framework papersand IMFreports.

3.6       On the pricing fi-ont, tariffs on water, electricity andtelecommunications were
increasedby 10-20percent, whle taxes onpetroleumproducts were reduced. All other
prices, except those for cotton, were market determined. Inagriculture, measureswere
taken to improve the efficiency o fproductioninthe cotton, cereals, andrice sub-sectors.
Inthe areaofPEreform, theUpperKala SugarComplexwas transformed into amixed
company, the Sikasso Tea Operation was leasedto a foreign investor, and six large PES
invarious sectorswereprivatized.

3.7       The ICR for the ERC correctly concluded that, inresponseto the devaluation, the
economy experienced a very positive supplyresponse, particularly inthe agriculture,
textiles, and construction sectors. Itwent on to assert, correctly, that the supply response
facilitated the diversification o f exports, especially livestock, gold, h i t s and vegetables.
The ICR concluded with a rather bold statement contending that "the financial viability
o fthe cotton sector has been restored". Inview o f the continued difficulties faced bythe
cotton sector, the statement was too optimistic andpre-mature. Nonetheless, inview o f
the improvements inthe policy environment, this assessmentrates the outcome o f the
credit as highly satisfactory, as inthe I C R

3.8       Sustainability. Barring any unforeseen and adverse external shocks, it was
reasonable to expect that the maintenance o frelatively stable macroeconomic
performance and the benefits from the structural reforms would be sustained. Therefore,
this assessmentagreeswiththe ICRratingo fsustainabilityas likely.

3.9       Institutional DevelopmentImpact. IDimpact i s ratednot evaluable, since this
was essentially an emergency operation with no expectations o f improving institutional
capacities.

3.10      Bank and Borrower Performance. Performance byboth the Bank and Borrower
was satisfactory. The Bank moved aheadvery rapidly inpreparingand approvingthe
credit and succeeded inmalungthe credit funds available to the country on atimely
manner. The government conducted an effective media campaign regardingthe
devaluation and the neededmeasures to ensure its implementation. It was able to gain
labor union support for the program and to overcome student resistance.

                                             13


3.11 LessonsLearned. Given the straight-forwardnature o fthis operation, because of
its emergency nature, it did not lenditselfto deep lessons. The main "lesson" it provided
was that, ifneeded, the Bankcould move very quickly and flexibly to help fill a financing
gap. Insuch a case, a single tranche credit, with retroactive financing andup-front
"conditionality" provedvery appropriate.


                                            15




4.      Economic ManagementCredit

4.1     Background and Context.Although the 1994devaluation hadelicited efficiency
gains insome sectors, the overall supply response wasjudged insufficient bythe Bank.In
addition, the fiscal situationhadremained fragile, withmost ofthe improvements inthe
fiscal balance due to expenditure contractionrather thanrevenue gains. Therefore,
improvingthe performance o fboth sides of the budget to achieve a sustainable fiscal
regimewas viewed as a central part o f a strategy to consolidate and expand the
competitiveness gains andto promote growth. Inaddition, increasing the role o f women
indirectproductiveactivities was also seenas helpfulto promote growth andreduce
poverty; which was a central theme o f the mid-1990s country assistance strategy.

4.2     Objectivesand Design. The credit's mainobjectives were to: (i) the
                                                                         improve
performance o f government revenues andreduce distortions inthe income tax system;
(ii)improve the efficiency, effectiveness andpoverty focus o fpublic expenditures; and
(iii) removeconstraintstoaccesstolandandcreditbywomen.Thethree
     help                                                                         ,
components o fthe credit mirroredits three objectives andwere designed to address
domestic resource mobilization; expenditure efficiency and effectiveness; and gender
issues. The revenue component consisted o fpolicy and administrative measuresrelated to
the Customs andDomestic Taxes Departments o f the Ministry o f Finance. The measures
were intended to strengthen performance, simplify processes, andreduce fraud. The
expenditure component consisted o f administrativemeasures designed to improve the
budgetingprocess andstaffperformance, as well as to restructure expenditures infavor
o fpoverty ameliorating programs, such as education, health, androadmaintenance. The
gender component was designed to help facilitate accessto landbywomen through
improvements inthe legal framework, and to facilitate financing small-scale activities o f
women's cooperatives, inadditionto conducting media campaigns on the role o fwomen
ineconomic development. EMC hadthree tranches, whichwere fully disbursed
following compliance o fthe macroeconomic targets.

4.3     Relevance of Objectivesand Design. Fromthe Bank's viewpoint, the objectives
and components o fthe credit were consistent with the country assistance strategy.
However, whereas the Malian authorities were by now fully committed to carry on with
improvements inbudgetary performance andto implementthe two fiscal components,
they perceivedthe gender component as something that was more important to the Bank,
butnot apriority for the countryat that stage. According to ahgh-ranking ex-official,
they went along because they neededthe IDA funds, without beingtotally convinced.

4.4     The policy content ofthe operation was limitedcompared to the reform
requirement o fthe economy. Bank staffnoted that the Bankwould have preferredto
expand the structural measuresto include the restructuringo finfrastructureservices as a
means to improve the efficiency ofthe economy as a whole. This was not done because
the Bank felt that preparation for the 1997 presidentialelections had occupied the
attention o fthe country's leadership who were thus not readyto have a meaningful
dialogue on structural policy reforms.

                                               16


4.5     Implementation andAchievements of Objectives.The domestic resource
mobilization component was well-implemented, except for lengthy delays inthe revision
o fthe miningcode, which was one o fthe conditions o fthe first floating tranche. A
number o f administrative measureswere implemented, including the establishment o f a
"large taxpayer unit", with computerized and trained staff. The taxpayer identification
systemwas improved, with the introductionofuniquenumbers for all taxpayers. Tax
auditingwas strengthened and became more frequent andbetter targeted. The Customs
Department was reorganized, its internal control functions strengthened, and staff
redeployed to major trade corridors. A new single tax on the consolidated income o f
larger firms was introduced. Although the budgetary impact directly attributable to these
measuresis difficult to measure, fiscal revenues did increase from 11.4 percent o f GDP in
1995 to 14.9 percent in 1998.

4.6     The public expenditure component also proceeded well, with a number o f specific
measuresimplementedto improve budgetpreparation andmonitoring. A procedural
manual was prepared, the budgetpreparation process was completely computerized, and
stafftrained. The staff o f the Ministryo f Finance, incollaborationwith Bank staff,
conducted annual analyses o fbudget execution, through Public Expenditure Reviews
(PERs). Budgetallocations for education andhealthincreasedto finance the recruitment
o f around 600 additional teachers, andto maintain school facilities andpay for teaching
materials.

4.7     Only limitedprogress was achieved inthe implementationofthe gender
component. The number o fwomen granted landinthe areas controlledby the Office du
Niger increasedproportionatelymore thanthat for men(about six-fold for women
compared to about double for men, between 1995 and 2003), but the number o fwomen
landholders remained avery small fraction (about 2.7 percent in2003) oftotal
landholdings. Some observers attributed the limitedprogress to traditional socialnorms
rather thanto project design. Others argued that, such traditional norms applied only to
"familial property", which was usually underthe control o fmale memberso f a family.
Landmanagedbythe Office du Niger was freely accessibleto womenjust as muchas to
men.Withrespectto accessto credit, a study commissioned in1997to evaluate the
savings and credit institutions, including a special fund under EMC for helpingwomen's
development, concluded that the fundwas under-performinginmost aspects. An action
planwas put inplace to improveits performance, but yielded no improvement.

4.8      Outcome. The macroeconomic indicators (for growth, inflation, the budget
deficit, andthe balance o f payments deficit) were broadly inline with program
expectations during 1997-98. Performance however deteriorated in 1999, because o fthe
adversethe terms of trade associated with the cotton crisis, and the oil price shock. In
addition to the unforeseen exogenous factors, implementationo f some o fthe components
was delayed because o f staffing discontinuities and uncertainties relatedto the 1997/98
election. As such, the overall outcome o f the credit i s rated moderately satisfactory.

4.9      Sustainability. The sustainability o fthe two public finance components o fthe
credit is rated likely, andthe gendercomponent is rated highly unlikely. Good overall
progresswas achevedinthe management o fpublic finances as Government commitment

                                             17


was high.Bycontrast, implementation o fthe gender component was unsatisfactory and
unlikelyto succeedunless restructured. Forthe project as awhole, sustainability is rated
likely onthe basis o fstrong government commitment for budgetreforms (both resource
mobilizationandexpenditure efficiency).

4.10    Institutional Development Impact. The IDimpact o fthe two public finance
components is rated substantial. Buildingonprevious support inthis area, the project
fiuther enhancedthe administrative and operational capacity o f the Ministry o fFinance
through the development o f systems, computerization, organizationalimprovements,
rationalizationand streamliningo fprocedures, andtraining. By contrast, the IDimpact o f
the gender component was negligible since theproject didnot leadto anappreciable
development o frelevant institutions. Takenas a whole, the IDimpact o fthe credit i s
rated modest.

4.11 Bank Performance. Duringappraisal, there were persistent questions, including
those bythe LoanCommittee, on: (i) appropriatenesso fincluding the gender
                                       the
componentinthis operation; (ii)   whether the public expenditurecomponent would address
povertyissueseffectively; and (iii)  the complexity andnumber o f tranches. These questions
werenot adequately addressedbeforeproject implementation. Staffcontinuityduring
supervision was poor, withthree different task managersover athree year period. In
addition, the gender component didnot receive sufficient attention. Only one o fthe six
supervision missions had a gender specialist on the team. The effectiveness o fincludingthe
component inan adjustment operation was questionable, andimplementationwas
fi-ustratedby low Government commitment andinsufficient attentionbythe Bank.Inview
o fthe above, the Bank's overallperformance is rated unsatisfactory.

4.12     Borrower Performance. The Borrower's overall performanceis ratedsatisfactory
mainly because o fthe successful implementationofthe resource mobilization and
expenditureefficiency components, despite the lack o f attentiongivento the gender
component. The reform instruments for revenue mobilization (customs and domestic
taxes) required political commitment as the measures were intendedto strengthen
performance andreduce fi-aud. Undertakingthese reforms inan environment inwhich the
leadership was pre-occupied with the1997 presidential elections was laudable.

4.13 LessonsLearned. The mainlesson learnedwas that grassroots-type components
(such as the gender component) that are spreadover wide rural areas should not bepart o f
structural adjustment operations unless they are well prepared inadvance and enjoy
strong commitment by the Borrower. Such components require extensive supervision by
specialized staff andnormally receive inadequate attention bymissions primarily staffed
to supervise adjustment operations. Their implementationhorizon i s also typically much
longer than that o f fast-disbursing loans, andt h s asymmetryis inevitablyresolved at the
expense o fthe non-adjustment components.


                                              19




5.      The Third StructuralAdjustment Credit(SAC 111)

5.1     Background and Strategic Context. The origin o f SAC I11goes back to the cotton
crisis o f 1998 when the world price of cotton dropped sharply, causing severe difficulties
for the sector andthe economy. The cotton PE, CompagnieMaliennepour le
Dkveloppement des Textiles (CMDT), that had enjoyedthe benefits o f a buoyant cotton
market during 1994-98, could not cope with the sharp drop inexport revenues. The large
losses it suffered were absorbedbythe budget, and threatened the progress that hadbeen
made on macroeconomic stability following the 1994 devaluation. Despite efforts bythe
government to stabilize the producer price, the company reduced the purchase price to
farmers inMay 2000, andthe farmers responded with aboycott which ledto a 50 percent
drop inproduction, increased losses for CMDT, and a drop inrural incomes. Inresponse,
the government began a series ofconsultations with the farmers and CMDT and escalated
the level o fits own attention to t h s important matter by creating a special unit inthe
PrimeMinister's Office (the Mission de Restructuration pour le Secteur Coton (MRSC))
to overseethe restructuring o fthe cotton sector. The resulting reformprogram for the
sector was basedon further consultations inthe context o f a national forum heldwith
stakeholders inApril 2001. This programreflectedthe farmers' preference for a gradual
approach to enable farmers' organizations to buildtheir own capacities to manage
functions such as input supply, credit, and eventually ginning.Duringthe period o f
intense domestic dialogue, the Bank was invitedinAugust 2000 to support the
Government's efforts to reform the sector with an adjustment operation.

5.2      Objectivesand Design. The objective o fBank support was to provide financing
inorder to helpclosetheoverallfinancing gap that resultedfromthe cotton crisis, while
assistingthe government to restructure and reform the cotton sector andput it on a more
robust footing for its long-termdevelopment. Inaddition, SAC I11sought to continue the
Bank's support for public expenditure management, with a focus onpoverty reduction.
SAC I11was disbursedinthree tranches.

5.3      Thetwo maincomponents ofthe credit consisted of: (i)cotton sector recovery
                                                                    a
and reform program; and (ii) expenditure reforms for poverty reduction. In
                               public
addition, as an adjustment operation, the credit requiredsatisfactory macroeconomic
performance, although it didnot set any specific targets by which such performance
would be evaluated (contrary to a mainlesson from the implementation o f SAC I,        where
the ICRhad arguedthat requiringsatisfactory macroeconomic performance without clear
benchmarks andconditions could leadto confusion andmisunderstandings).

5.4      The cotton sector component consisted ofup-front support for a short term action
planwhose implementationwould lay the groundwork for amore comprehensive reform
o f the sector to be taken up infuture operations. The actionplanwas expected to address
the sector's most urgent problems: to rapidly restore output and farmers' incomes during
the 2001-02 cropping season, and to prevent social and other problems that would result
from the continued deterioration o f the sector. It consisted o f four mainelements: (i) an
emergency financial rescueplanfor CMDT; (ii) o f CMDT accounts and studies to
                                                   audit

                                               20


delineate a liberalization programfor the sector; (iii)  preparationo fthe first package o f
liberalizationmeasures, includingprivatizationo f the cottonseed oil subsidiary o f
CMDT, the Huilerie Cotonnikre du Mali (HUICOMA), and the ginningmills and other
assets belongingto CMDT inthe OHVNffita zone; and (iv) restructuring o f CMDT to
focus on core functions (ginningand product marketing), while divesting from other
marketing activities. The latter requiredthe sale o fnon-core assets; subcontracting o f
non-core services to the private sector, including farmers' organizations; and preparation
o fa safety net to meet the costs o f staffretrenchment. Implementationo fthe actionplan
set the stage for a full-scale reform o f CMDT leadingto its restructuringinto several
separate entities that were privatized.

5.5     The objective ofthe public expenditurecomponent was to improvethe impact of
public expenditures onpoverty reduction. The programbuilt on the achievements made
underthe previous EMC andfocused onbudgetpreparation, execution, andmonitoring.
The component was designed to deepenandwiden the improvementsachieved under
EMC to the administrative and operational procedures o f the budgetingprocess, primarily
on the expenditures side, and to help apply harmonizedregional procedures, in
accordancewith the West Africa Economic andMonetaryUnion(WAEMU).

5.6     Relevance of Objectives and Design. The objectives o fthe SAC I11were highly
relevant to Mali's needs. The IDA funds were requiredto fill a financing gap precipitated
bythe cottoncrisis. Layingthe foundations for restructuringandreformingthe cotton
sector was expected to improve the sector's capability to better deal with external shocks,
andplay a more resilient role inpromoting growth and reducing poverty. Finally,
improvingthe link between public expenditure decisions andpovertyreduction would
methodicallybuildon progress achieved already inexpenditure management under
previous credits to improve the chances o f combatingpovertythrough better basic
education and health services.

5.7     However, expecting to deal effectively with the politically charged and
technically difficult restructuringo fthe cotton sector inthe context o f a structural
adjustmentoperation turnedout to be ambitious. Perhaps some o fthe less contentious
and less time consumingmeasures could have beenincluded, with the more difficult
measures, such as the privatizationo f HUICOMA andthe CMDT assets inthe
OHVNffita zone, relegated to a separate operation with a longer implementation and
disbursementprofile. Giventhe strong feeling expressedbyanumber o fkeyMalian
officials that the fast pace o f difficult measures was imposedon them against their better
judgment, the objectives o fthe operation appear to have beenoverly ambitious, and
consequently relevance i s rated as moderate.

                                             21


5.8     Implementation and Achievement of Objectives. Implementationo fthe public
expenditure component was moderatelysatisfactory. Buildingon progress achieved under
previous adjustment credits, a significant number o f additional procedural and
administrative measureswere implementedto further rationalize andharmonizepublic
expenditures. They included: (i)  preparation o f aprocedural manual for budgetexecution;
(ii)development o f aninformationsystemthat integratedthe functions o f all the
departmentso fthe Ministry ofEconomyandFinance (iii) of a consolidated Treasury
                                                            use
balance statementsbeingissuedon amonthlybasis; (iv) strengtheningo f auditing
functions; (v) application sincethe 2003 budget o f abudget nomenclature for local
governments compatible withthe nationalbudget; and (vi) completiono fmediumterm
expenditure fkameworks (MTEFs) for the education andhealthsectors andit application to
the 2004budget. The fiameworks took the MDGs as their startingpoints, followed by 10-
year sector expenditureplans translated into specific annualbudgetallocations. This
resulted inthe strengthening o fthe llnk betweenthe strategic sector objectives and actual
expenditure allocations. To ensurethat the budget allocations were actually beingused for
their intendedpurposes,the Banksupportedtracer studiesunderSAC IV (see Annex D).
SAC IValso supported the development o fMTEFs for other priority sectors, withthe
objective o ftheir generalized adoption to both central andlocal govemment budgets.

5.9      However, implementation of the cotton sector component was only partially
successful. m l e a number o fthe plannedshort term actions were implemented, a wide
gap remainedbetweenthe govemment andthe Bankonhow the fundamental reform o fthe
sector should proceed.

5.10     Among the short-term measures successfully implementedwere the following: (i)
cost saving measureswere instituted; (ii) eliminated some o fthe social services it
                                           CMDT
provided; (iii) truckers were engagedinhaulingpart o f cottonproduction; (iv) a
                private
marketbasedpricing formula for cottonlintwas partially adopted for the 2002/03 crop
year; and (v) HUICOMA andthe assets o f CMDT inthe OHVNffita zone were brought
to the point o f sale, but the bidswere considered too low andnot acceptedby
government. By contrast, some of the morefundamental restructuring andprivatization
measures were delayed, or not implemented. This ledto delaying some o fthe relevant
benchmark conditions from the second to the thirdtranche and doing away completely
with the thirdtranche-an      important shortcominginterms o f its potentialfiscal
implications.

5.11 All officials interviewedbythe PPARmission agreed that the sector needed to be
restructured andreformed, and its fiscal link to the nationalbudget reduced, so that it
would not represent a destabilizing factor to macroeconomic performance ingeneral. The
concern was how and at what pace. Some agreed with the Bankthat the ultimate
privatization o f CMDT couldbe a solution, but felt that the pace at which it couldbe
done effectively should not berushedas was beingrequiredby the Bank.Others
questioned whether privatizationinitselfwould succeed inmaking the sector less
vulnerable. They pointedto Benin and Cote d'Ivoire where the cotton sectors hadbeen
privatizedbuthadnot resultedinloweringthe sector's vulnerability. Also, inBurkina
Faso, where the linkbetween the cotton sector andthe budget hadreportedlybeen
reduced, it was claimedthat the government subsidized the inputs for some producers.

                                                    22


5.12     Keygovernment officials, such as the PrimeMinister andthe Minister ofEconomy
andFinance, felt that afast-disbursing structural adjustment creditwas notthe appropriate
instrument for the privatizationo f even the pilot OHVNmtazone. They expressedconcern
about likely adversepolitical consequencesthat wouldbe difficult to manage, ifthe
proposedprivatizationwere to proceed at the pace envisioned under SAC III. fbrther       They
statedthat theywere opposedinprinciple to privatizationbasedonpre-assigneddates, and
pointed to what they considered as very bad andpainful experience withthe "privatization"
ofmanyprevious PESthat were subjected to what theybelievedhadbeenunrealistic target
dates underthe Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project (PESAP) o f 1988. Most o fthe
PESthat were slated for privatizationunderthat projectwere liquidatedfor lack o fbuyers
resulting fiom inadequatepreparati~n.~

5.13     Most o fthe officials interviewedthought that the pricing formula for cotton
agreedunder the subsequent operation (SAC IV), which linkedthe domestic purchase
price to the world price, was a step inthe right direction. The step was also important for
de-linking pricing and o f distributingissues fiom the more fundamental issue o f
privatizing the cotton sector. The officials also agreed that the management o f CMDT
neededto be improved and felt that keepingCMDT apublic entitywhile reducingits link
to the budget could serve this purpose. They argued that improving CMDT management
andefficiency couldthenbea step towardits eventualprivatizationat a pace that is
politically acceptable. Inthe meantime, President Toure informed the Bank that any
hndamental restructuring o f the cotton sector would have to be postponed until2008.
This i s beinginterpretedbymost as a desire byPresident Tour6 to allow the 2007
elections to take place before embarking on apolitically unpopular program. As a result,
SAC IV, which IDA approved inMarch 2005, didnot include any fimdamental cotton
restructuring component.

5.14     Outcome. Macroeconomicperformance duringthe implementation o f SAC I11
was subjected to a number o f exogenous factors. Onthe negative side, the political crisis
that eruptedinCote d'Ivoire inSeptember 2002, about 9 months after credit
effectiveness, had serious adverse effects onthe economy o fMali. The closure o fthe
road from Bamako to Abidjan (Mali's main export port at the time) had a detrimental
effect on the export o f cotton and livestock. Over 40,000 Malianworkers inCote d'Ivoire
were estimated to have returnedhome, leadingto a sharp drop inremittances by about 30
percent. Inaddition, the world price o f cottonwas stagnant. Onthe positive side,
significant debt reliefwas providedto the country underthe EnhancedHIPC Initiative in
March 2003. There were also additional resources made available through a supplemental
grant to SAC I11(see Annex C). Owingto these factors real GDP growth slowedto 4.3
percent in2002 compared with 12.2 percent in2001. However, drivenby a strong
recovery inagriculture, on account o fimprovedweather conditions, growth strengthened


3The experience withPESAPhadnot beenpositive and it continued to fuel resistance ofkey policy-makers
to what they perceive as fast-paced privatizationgovernedbypre-set dates (see Annex D). The privatization
ofHUICOMA inJune 2005 was givenas an example ofa successbecausethey felt they hadtaken their time
to findthe right buyer.

                                              23


to 7.2percentin2003. Mali was able to meet the macroeconomic targets contained inthe
PRGF arrangementin2002 and 2003. As i s the case for all four o fthe credits reviewedin
thisPPAR, the IMFplayedamajor role inthe improvedmacroeconomic performance,
with a supporting rolebythe Bank (see Annex E).

5.15      Inview o fthe partialprogress made inimplementingthe public financial
management component o fthe project, andtaking into account the modest relevance o f
the key cotton sector objectives andthe difficulties encountered intheir implementation,
this review rates the outcome as moderately unsatisfactory.

5.16      Sustainability. Inview o fthe Government's ongoing desire to improve the
management o fpublic expenditures, the sustained improvements inthis areaunder
previous Bank operations, the successful performance under this credit, andthe inclusion
o f follow-up components insubsequent operations; the sustainabilityo f the benefits
achieved inthis area i sjudged as likely. The sustainability o f adequatemacroeconomic
performance is also likely, barring significant adverse external shocks. As for the
restructuring andreform ofthe cotton sector, the Government has not demonstrated a
clear commitment. Its skepticism withregard to the pace andmethodo f change does not
augur well for the sustainability o f the meager benefits achieved thus far. Onbalance the
sustainability o f the achievements o fthis credit i s likely.

5.17      Institutional Development Impact. The continued Bank's support to the
MinistryofEconomyandFinanceto strengthen the budgetingprocess andadministration
hashelpedimproved capacity for public expenditure management. The institutions
dealing with the reform o fthe cotton sector, such as the MRSC, and the CMDT, remain
ingreatneedof strengthening. Overall, the IDimpact isratedmodest.

5.18      Bank Performance. The Bank's focus on assisting Malito maintain
macroeconomic stability, improve the management o fits public spending, and lay the
foundations to reformthe cotton sector to makeitmore resilient infacing external shocks
was appropriate. However, therewas a strongperceptionbyconcerned Malianofficials that
the paceo frestructuring andprivatizationwas unrealistic andwas beingimposedbythe
Bank without beingsufficiently responsive to their concerns. The inclusiono f a politically
contentious andtime-consuming cotton sector reformcomponent ina quick-disbursing
adjustment operation was problematic. The commitment o fthe Government was weak,
whde the Bankwas overly accommodating onits conditions. For example, credit
conditions that required some PESto be "brought to the point o f sale" underthe second
tranche were movedto the thirdtranche, although the secondtranche was disbursed
anyway. The originalthirdtranche conditions, which requiredthe entities be divested to the
private sector, were subsequently eliminated. Inaddition, the Bank couldhave made a
greater effort to keep its development partners better informed o fits evolvingposition
regardingdevelopments inthe sector. One o fthe maindevelopment partners complained
that whenthe Bank decided to go alongwith a request from President Tour6 that any
fundamental restructuring o fthe sector should be delayed till at least 2008, it didnot inform
this partner ina timely manner, leaving the latter inan embarrassing situation. For these
reasons, this assessmentratesoverall Bankperformance as unsatisfactory.

                                             24


5.19       Borrower Performance. The Borrowerperformedvery well inthe preparation
andimplementationof thepublic expenditure component o ft h s credit. Inaddition, the
governmentdealt effectively with the effects o fthe Cote d'Ivoire crisis, byre-routing
trade, finding alternative sources o fpetroleum and other products, and containingthe
budgetary impact, without reducing expenditures related to poverty reduction. However,
the government couldhave beenmore assertive andnot gone along with important
measuresincluded as conditions under the cotton sector component when it felt that the
proposedpace o f implementationwas unrealistic. Overall, the Borrower's performance i s
rated satisfactory.

5.20       Lessons Learned. As with the EMC, the main'lesson learned from the
implementationo fthis credit i s that borrower commitment i s essential for successful
implementation. The implementationo fthe budget component progressedwell becauseit
was ownedbythe borrower who viewed the Bankas a welcomed and effectivepartner in
t h s area, andbecause it felt that the measuresincluded could be implementedwithin a
timehorizonnormally appropriate for an adjustment operation. By contrast, the cotton
component acheved only partial successbecausethe pace expected for the
implementationo f some o fthe more difficult measuresprovedtoo ambitious. Inaddition,
the Borrower's commitment to implementingthose measures was uncertain, and many
officials concerned felt that the Bankwas more o f an adversary rather than apartner in
t h s area.

                                                     25




6.       Evaluation of Overall Outcomes

6.1      This section evaluatesthe overall outcomes o fthe Bank's assistanceto Mali inthe
three key areas that constituted the main objectives o fBank interventions inthe four
operations under review: (i)      macroeconomic performance; (ii) and structuralsectoral
reforms and (iii)     povertyreduction andprogress toward meetingthe MDGs. O fcourse, it
is not possible to specifically attribute performance inall these areasto the Bank's
support by itself: Many other players have beeninvolved, starting with the policies and
actions o fthe country itself, and including a number o fvery active other donors. In
addition, perhaps the most significant factors have been the exogenous variables;
particularly the amount o frainfall, the world prices o f cotton and gold andpolitical unrest
inneighboringCoted'Ivoire. Nevertheless, the analysis presentedinthis sectiontries to
give abroadperspective onwhat, onbalance, has been achieved over the review period
bythe combined efforts of allparticipants inMali's economic development efforts.

Macroeconomic Performance

6.2      Mali's overall macroeconomic performance since the early nineties has improved
considerably, despite its continuedvulnerability to external shocks (see Table 6.1). This
improvement i s attributable to a combination o f factors. The economic stabilization and
adjustment measuresundertaken inthe earlypart o f the decade (supported by SAC I,                      the
IMF, andother donors), and supplementedbythe 1994 devaluation andsignificant
amount o f aid anddebt reliefthat the country has enjoyed, yieldedthe desired results.

 Table 6.1 M a l i Key Macroeconomic Indicators (1992- 2005)
                      -
                            1992-
                               93      1994-95       1996-99            2000-02         2002-03   2003-2005
                                           AverageAnnual PercentageChange
 Real GDP Growth ("A)          1.9       4.8            5.3                5.9              5.8      5.0

 Consumer Price Index         -3.2       18.0           3.3                2.1              1.8      0.7
                                                      Percentof GDP                               2003-2004
 Total Budget Revenue         14.2       12.9           15.9              16.5             16.2     15.6
 Total Budget
 Expenditure                 26.8        25.8           24.1              24.7            22.6      21.8
 Overall Balance
 (excluding grants)          -14.6      -12.9           -8.2              -8.2             -6.4     -6.2
 Current Account Balance
 (excluding official
 transfers)                  -15.1      -18.7          -10.9              -11.0            -5.6     -9.4
                                         Percentof Exports of Goodsand Services
 Debt Service Ratio         18.
 (before debt relief,)       3      19.8          16.9              10.9               10.1
 DebtService Ratio (after


 Source: IMF,variousdocuments, WB World DevelopmentIndicators,WE3 African DevelopmentIndicators

                                              26


6.3     Growth acceleratedfrom less than2 percent in 1992-93, to almost 6 percent over
2000-03. Annual growthrates have exhibited substantial fluctuations becauseofthe
country's dependenceon a few export commodities that are subject to substantial world
price fluctuation. Gold mining, cotton andrice have, on average, accounted for morethan
50 percent of growth over the 1992-2002period. Exceptfor ahighpeak following the 1994
devaluation, inflationhasremainedmodest, andinlinewithinflationinthe Euro zone.

6.4     Fiscalperformance has also improved significantly. The overall deficit has shrunk
from 14.6 percent o f GDP in 1992-93, to 6.4 percent in2002-03. Although a larger share
of this decline hasbeendue to expenditures compression, revenues have increased as
well, dueto various measuressupportedby IMFprograms, as well as by SAC Iand
EMC, andby other donors. Despite the contraction inoverall expenditures relative to
GDP, support bythe donor communityhas enabledthe relative share o f expenditures on
basic education to increase as o f2002, andthat on healthas o f 2003; following previous
declines (see Table 6.2).

Table 6.2 Mali PublicExpenditureson BasicEducationandHealth(2000 -2004)
                     -
                                                            YOof total expenditure
                                                2000     2001       2002     2003     2004
ExpendituresonBasicEducation                    10.2     6.7        7.7      10.2     11.6
ExpendituresonHealth                            6.7      6.4        5.9      10.1     11.6
Source: Ministryof Economyand Finance


6.5     The external account has also improved significantly over the 1992-2003 period,
withthe current account deficit, excluding official transfers, declining sharply fromjust
over 15percent o f GDP in 1992-93, to 5.6 percent in2002-03. Despite sharp fluctuations in
the exports o f cotton, overall exports increasedbytwice as much as imports on average
duringthis period, inpartbecauseofthe expansion ingoldexports which havebecome a
largerexport earnerthancotton. Malireachedthe completion point underthe initial H P C
initiative inSeptember2000 andunder the EnhancedHIPC inMarch2003. The combined
debtreliefo fUS$539millioninNPVterms was instrumental inreducingthe ratio ofthe
NPVoftotaldebt to exports to 150percent in2003.

Sector Reforms

6.6      StructuralAdjustment. Mali has made significant progress instructural reforms
since 1992. These reforms tended to be associatedwith programs o f the Bank, the Fund,
andother donors. Despitethe lack o fownership and commitment onthe part o f
Government, the initial reforms o fthe early nineties were undertaken with the support o f
SAC I.   It implementedthetrade liberalizationprogram as amember o fWAEMUby:
settinga common external tariff structure with four rates; lowering the maximumtariffto
20 percent; and complyingwith the progressive elimination o ftariffs within the WAEMU
area. Onlytwo prices remainadministered: those for cotton andrice. The domestic cotton
purchaseprice from farmers i s now set according to a market-based formula that follows
world prices (this was agreedunder SAC IV).

                                               27


6.7      Progresshas beenmade inprivate sector development (PSD), including
privatization. Onprivatization, only three large PESremaininthe public sector: CMDT,
thetelecommunications company SOTELMA, andtheHousingBank. The Government
is not opposed to their privatization, but wants to make sure that it i s done properly and
advantageously. With regardto PSD, a number o fmeasureshave been implemented,
which included: harmonizationo fthe legal andregulatory environment underthe
Organization for the Harmonization o fBusiness Law inAfrica (OHADA); a ten-year
plan for the development o fthejudicial sector was adopted in 1999, andmeasureshave
been taken to raise the skills o fmagistrates; andnew regulatory and legal frameworks
have been implemented for the privatizedpublic utilities. However, governance issues
andpolitical interference remainproblemsthat need to be addressed. FDIhas increased
significantly, mainly due to the relatively large gold miningconcessions to South African
andAustralian companies.

6.8      Despite some notable improvements, the financial sector needs Wher structural
reforms. Most indicators o f financial soundnesshave recently improved, andthe numbero f
banksthat have complied withprudential regulations hasrisen. Butthe sector still suffers
fiom a large stock o fnon-perfonningloans, which leadsto a spread ofmorethan 10
percent betweenlendinganddeposit rates and ahghconcentration o floans. Micro-finance
institutions (MFIs) have increasedandnow account for almost 5 percent o f deposits and
credits. Treasury bills were issued for the first time inJune 2003, and a regionalstock
exchangehasbeen established.

6.9      Role of ExogenousShocks. The vulnerability due to its dependenceon rain fed
agriculture andthe world prices o f cotton and gold i s the Achilles heel o fthe Malian
economy. The adjustment operations reviewed inthis assessmentincluded components
designed to either directly, or indirectly, help reduce this vulnerability through
diversifyingthe economy andreducingits dependence on cotton. For example, the
incentives system component of SAC Ihelpedimprove the overall economic policy
setting andbusiness environment that could, indirectly, encourage diversificationinto
other economic activities. The cotton component o f SAC I11was specifically designed to
address the vulnerability issue, bytryingto help the sector become more robust and
flexible inresponding to external shocks. Inaddition, the cottonpricing formula adopted
inconjunctionwith SAC lVcontributed to the development ofastabilizationfundthat
could help attenuate financial difficulties inlean years by usingany surpluses
accumulated inbetter years. Unfortunately, the policy reforms were unableto reduce the
economy's vulnerability to cottonprices. Economic diversificationfor a land-locked
country with a limitedresource base and institutional capacities, and a poorly educated        3


andtrained labor force, is difficult to acheve. Nevertheless, the Bankis still tryingto
assist inthis areathrough operations such as the recently approved Growth Support
Project and, indirectly, through other operations designed to further the development o f
the financial andprivate sectors.

                                                 28


6.10     Aid Dependence.According to the World Bank study o f aid andreform in
Ahca4,Mali i s one o fthe top ten aid recipients inthe world. In 1997, for example, net
ODA inflows represented 18.4 percent o f GNP, 77.2 percent o f investment, and47.5
percent o fimports. Over the 1994-97 period, 54 percent o fnet ODA disbursements on
average came from bilateral sources, and 46 percent from multilateral. The EUmember
countries were responsible for 37 percent o fthe total (France 18 percent, IDA 16percent,
andthe EC 13percent). Thetotal amount o fnet disbursements increased sharplyfrom
about US$115 million (constant 1996 prices) during 1964-67 to about US$576 million
during 1982-85.

6.11 A reviewo fthe Malian experience underthe aid andreform study, regardingthe
linkbetween aidandreform, concluded that: "(i) ismorelikelyto facilitate reformif
                                                       aid
a critical situation hasrevealedthe needfor it; (ii) i s more likely to lead to reform if
                                                        aid
the stakeholders are aware o fits usefulness or ifthere i s scope for mediation between
opposing interests; (iii) aid i s more likely to facilitate reform ifthere i s no disagreement
betweenvarious donors on the details o f the reform; and (iv) aid is more likely to
facilitate reform ifit considerably reduces the costs incurred." These conclusions are
broadly consistent with the observations o fthis assessment, andrepresent a set o f
important lessons for future Bankoperations.

Povertyandthe MillenniumDevelopmentGoals

6.12     Povertyreductionhasbeen a central objective o f Government policy, as
enunciated previouslyby PFPs, andmore recently, inthe PRSP. Ithas also beena major
objective o fthe Bank's country assistance strategies. So has makingprogress inmeeting
the MDGs, which have recentlybeenusedbythe Malian authorities as a reference point
for the MTEFsand annual budget allocations inbasic education and health. The main
strategies andpolicies employedto those ends havebeen: the promotion o f overall
growth, particularlythrough private sector development; andincreasing the proportion o f
public expenditures on the provision o fbasic education andhealth services.

6.13     Progress inreducingpoverty, improving the distribution o fper capita
consumption, and generally moving toward achievingthe MDGshas beenmixed, but
generally slow (see Table 6.3). Thus, for example, the percentage o fthe population living
underthe poverty line hasbeenreduced from about 64 percent in 1990, butremained at
about 57 percent in2001 (latest information). Similarly, the Gini Index for consumption
was loweredfrom 45.5 percent inthe mid-nineties, but remained at 40.1 percent in2001.
While encouraging progress has beenmade inmoving toward achievinguniversal
education and gender equality, attempts to reduce child andmaternalmortality have been
disappointing. At the current rate o f improvements it is unlikelyfor Mali to achieve the
MDGsrelatedto poverty andhealth, whereas inthe case o feducation, targets are likely
to be met ifefforts inthat direction are sustained.




4 The World Bank, Aid and Reform in Afi-ica, WaslungtonD.C., 2001.

                                                     29


6.14     Insummary: (i)       macroeconomic stabilization andoverall growth have done well
on average, despite sharp fluctuations andperiods o f crises causedby external factors;
(ii)considerable and commendable progress hasbeen made ina number o fkey areas o f
structural reform, including trade liberalization, privatization andPSD. Despitethese
stabilization and structural adjustment achievements, the economyremains vulnerable to
external shocks becauseo fits dependence on a few major products. The economy also
continues to depend heavily on external financial aid and debt relief. Progress on poverty
reduction hasbeenslow, despite a two percent average growth inper capita income each
year over the last decade. Butthere i s encouraging improvements ineducation indicators.
On the basis o fthese developments, the overall outcome o fBank assistance inthe four
operations i s ratedmoderately satisfactory, with sustainabilityratedlikely and
institutional development impact rated as modest.


Table 6.3 Mali Status of Selected MDGTargets
                    -
Objective      Target: Proposed changefrom 1990 to 2015             Actual changefrom 1990 to 2001

              Halve the proportion o fpeople below the
              poverty line                                   Reduced from 64% to 57%

    1.        Halve the proportion o fpeople who suffer from Stunting  increased from 27% to 38%
              hunger                                         Wasting reduced fiom 43% to 33%

    2.        Achieve universal primary education            Gross enrollment rate increased from 26%
                                                             to 67%
                                                             Ratio o fboys to girls inprimary, secondary
    3.        Eliminate gender disparity ineducation         and tertiary schools increased from 62% to

    4.        Reduce child mortality by 66%                  Reducedby less than 4%
    5.        Reduce maternal mortality by 75%               Essentially unchanged
              Stop and reverse the current trends o f        Population affected in2001 byHIV: 1.7%;
    " HIV/AIDSandmalaria.                                    by malaria: 32% "

"Datafor 1990notavailable.
Source: World Bank, December 2004.



6.15     Monitoring andEvaluation. The design andimplementationofall four operations
reviewed didnot highlightnor emphasizespecific sets o fvariables to monitor and evaluate
with aview to initiatemid-course corrections, as needed. Instead, inlinewith all
adjustment operations, the focus was more on overall economic performance and outcomes
o fthe benchmark conditions governing tranche releases. However, three o fthe four
operations includedcomponents that couldhavebenefited from a monitoring and
evaluation framework: the civil service component under SAC I, gender component
                                                                            the
underERC, andthe cottoncomponent under SAC 111.Inall three, serious difficulties were
encounteredintheir implementation, which neededappropriate mid-course adjustments.
Withbetter monitoring andevaluation frameworkbuilt intoproject design and
implementation, the distortions o fthe civil service component mayhavebeen averted. The
gendercomponent couldhavebeenredesigned, andthe cottoncomponent mighthavebeen
recognized fiom the beginningas too complex to be included inan adjustment operation.


                                          31


7.  Lessons for the Future


7.1 The main lessons learned from t h s review are:

    Country ownership matters very much. The components o fthe loans that were
    owned bythe country, such as the public resource management and some o f the
    structural adjustment components were generally successfully implemented. By
    contrast, the components for which country commitment was not as strong, such
    as civil service reform, gender development, and fundamental cotton sector
    reform; didnot fare very well.

    As a generalrule, it would be very useful for the Bank to listenbetter and to go to
    extra lengths to explain its positions, and to solicit views and seek genuine
    agreement with country authorities. This could improve country ownership of
    programs. According to keyofficials inMali, the Bankhas become a better
    listener duringthe last few years, and the Resident Mission has played an
    importantrole inthis regard. This i s a good development which shouldbe
    sustained andbuilt upon.

    It is importantto keep a good andsubstantive dialogue with the main
    development partners; again by listeningbetter to their view points, keepingthem
    better informedabout those o fthe Bank, and seeking to reach agreements when
    possible. Ths would increase the effectiveness o f the support being givento a
    country by development partners as a group as well as individually.

    As hashappened already with SAC N,itwouldbepreferable to keep the design
    o f adjustment operations simple and focused on a limitednumber o fkey policy
    areas, whose implementationcanberealistically expectedwithin the short
    disbursement period dictated by an adjustment operation. A well-designed
    monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) could further help facilitate
    implementationand avoid stalemate situations.


                                                                         33


Annex A: BasicData Sheet
Mali: First StructuralAdjustment Credit (Credit No. 2188)


                                                                      Appraisal                    Actual or                  Actual as % of
                                                                      Estimate               current estimate                appraisal estimate
IDA                                                                       70                            70                           100
CofinancingInstitutions                                                   --                           86.2                           --
    African DevelopmentBank                                                                             20                            --
    EuropeanUnion(EEC)                                                    ----                          22                            --
    Germany                                                               --                            19                            --
    Netherlands                                                           -                            20.5                           -_
    Switzerland                                                           --                           4.3                            --
    Norway                                                                --                           0.4                            -_
    Other ExternalSources a                                               --                           150                            -_
Total                                                                      --                         306.2                           -_
a The IMF provided US$27 million equivalentunder its StructuralAdpstmentFaciltty: about US$123 million was prowdedby France, USA, Canadaand Japan




                                                                 Original              -                       Actual                    -~
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                    March 1990                                     March1990
Boardapproval                                                    n.a.                                           December11,1990
Signing                                                          n.a.                                           January23,1991
Effectiveness                                                    February1991                                   March 15, 1991
Closingdate                                                      June 1993                                      June 1995




                                                                                             ActuaWLatest Estimate
                                                                           N" Staff weeks                                    os$~ooo)
Pre-appraisal                                                                     66                                             141.3
Appraisal                                                                         69                                             175.4
Negotiations                                                                      22.3                                           53.3
Supervision                                                                       184.4                                         430.9
Other                                                                             6.3                                            14
Total                                                                             384                                           814.9

                                                    34


MissionData
                    Date       No. of   Staff days Specializations Performance Rating  Typesof
                (month/year) persons     in field   represented       rating   trend   problems
Identification1 Jan-I990         1          7     Economist             -_       --       --
Preparation
                Mar-I990         4          17    Economists
                May-I990         2          14    Economists
Appraisal       NOV-I990         5          14    Economists
                NOV-I990         2          12    Economists
                Apr-I991         3          8     Economists
Supervision     May-I991         3          7     Economists
                AUg-1991         1          9     Economists
                Oct-1991          1         8     Economists
                NOV-I991         3          18    Economists
                Dec-1991          1         5     EnergySp.
                Jan-I992          1         10    Economists
                Feb-1992          1         5     Economists
                May-I992          1         7     Economists
                Jun-I992         5          11    Economists
                AUg-I992         2          15    Economists
                NOV-I992         2          5     Economists
                Dec-I992          1         18    Economists
                Feb-1993          1         18    Economists
                AU9-1993          2          9    Economists
                Oct-I993          1          5    Economists
                Dec-I993          1          8    Economists
                Mar-I994          1         14    Economists
                Jun-1994          1          7    Economists
Completion      July-1995         2         14    Economists
l=Problem free or minor problems:2= moderateproblems
M= Managerial;T=Technical; P=Political;O=Other

                                                        35


EconomicRecovery Credit (CreditNo. 2580)

Kev ProiectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                    Appraisal         Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate      current estimate      appraisal estimate
Originalcommitment                                                        25                   100%
Total cancellation
Total projectcost
Cancellation




                                               Original                         Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                  January 1994                     January 1994
Boardapproval                                  March 1994                       March 17, 1994
Signing                                        March 1994                       March 18, 1994
Effectiveness                                  April 1994                       May 5,1994
Closingdate                                    June 1995                        June 30,1995




                                                             ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                            N" Staff weeks                           US$~OOO)
Pre-appraisal                                      _-                                     -_
Appraisal                                         4.5                                   15.3
Negotiations                                      2.8                                    9.7
Supervision                                       7.5                                   22.4
Other                                             1.9                                    8.6
Total


MissionData
                      Date       No. of Staff days Specializations   Performance     Rating       Types of
                 (month/year) persons     in field      represented      rating       trend      problems
Identification/ JanlFeb 1994      5         15       Economist             --           -            --
Preparation
Appraisal        --               -          _-      --
Supervision            1994       2         15
Completion       --June        __       --           --Economists

                                        36


EconomicManagementCredit (Credit No. 2894)

Kev ProiectData (amounts in US$million)
                                    Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as % of
                                     estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
Originalcommitment                      60                 60                     100%
Total cancellation                       -                  --
                                                                                   I



Total projectcost
Cancellation




                                Original                         Actual
Departureof AppraisalMission
Boardapproval                   --                               June 27.1996
Signing                         July 24, 1996                    July 24,1996
Effectiveness                   December 18,1996                 December18, 1996
Closingdate                     December31, 1998                 June 30,2001




                                                     ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                         N" Staff weeks                     US$(OOO)
Pre-appraisal                              34.9                              87
Appraisal/ Negotiations                    21.9                              33.0
Supervision                                68.6                              198.6
Other                                      n.a.                              n.a.
Total                                      125.4                             318.6

                                                  37



                              Date     No. of      Specializations   Implementation Development
                          (monthhear) iaersons       reiaresented      Prowess       Objective
Identification/Preparation 07/95-03/96   3    Economist                   S              S
                                          1   ResidentRepresentative
                                          1   Public Resource
                                              Management
                                          1   OperationsAnalyst


Appraisal/ Negotiations    04/96-06/96    3   Economists                  S              S
                                          1   OperationsAnalyst
                                          1   FinancialAnalyst
                                          1   IndustrialSector Sp.
                                          1   ResidentRepresentative
Supervision                 02/29/97      2   Economists                  S              S
                            10116/97      2   Economist
                            o~/zi/ga      1   Economist
                            Iwmga         1   Economist
                            06/30/99      2   Economists;Mining
                                              Specialist
ICR                         02/17/00      1   Economist
                                          2   Economists

                                           38


Third StructuralAdjustment Credit (Credit No. 3582)


                                      Appraisal         Actual or            Actual as % of
                                      estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Original commitment                       70.0             70.0                   100
Total cancellation                                 _-                   _-
                                  I                I



Total projectcost                 --                                    -
Cancellation                      _-               -                    _-



                                   Original                      Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                     --
                                  I



Boardapproval                      December 12,2001               December II, 2001
Signing                           _-                              December17,2001
Effectiveness                     --                              January 3,2002
Closing date                      June 30,2003                    June 30,2004


StaffInwts(staff weeks)
                                               ActuaYLatestEstimate
                                 N" Staff weeks                        US$('OOO)
Identification/Preparation            49                                  221.5
Appraisal/ Negotiations               52                                  166.6
Supervision                           37.9                                323
Other                                   5                                  12
Total                                 143.9                               723

                                                 39


Mission Data
                  Date      No. of   Staff       Specializations represented     Implementation Development
               (month/year) persons days in                                        Progress      Objective
                                     field
Identification/  8/2000       12       --   Economist-TTL (I);                        _-             --
Preparation                                 TelecommunicationsSpecialist(1);
                                            EnergySpecialist(1); Financial
                                            Sector Specialist(1); Rural
                                            DevelopmentSpecialist(1);
                                            Agricultural Economist(1);
                                            ProjectImplementationSpecialist(1);
                                            Economist(1); Macro SectorManager
                                            (1); RuralSector Manager (1);
                                            ResidentRepresentative(1); IMF
                                            Economist(I).

                 212001        8            Economist-TTL(1);Agricultural
                                            Economist(2); Economist(1);
                                            Public FinanceSpecialist (1);
                                            AgriculturalServicesSpecialist(1);
                                            Rural DevelopmentSpecialists(2)

Appraisal/       9/2001        9       --   Co-TTL& Sr. Economist(1); Co-TTL          __
Negotiations                                & Rural DevelopmentSpecialist(1);
                                            Economist(1); Public Finance
                                            Specialist(1);Agricultural Economist
                                            (1); Agricultural ServicesSpecialist
                                            (2); ProjectImplementationSpecialist
                                            (1); ResidentRepresentative(I).

Supervision      3/2002        4       --   Co-TTL& Sr. Economist(1); Co-TTL          S              S
                                            & Rural DevelopmentSpecialist(1);
                                            Agricultural Economist(1); Country
                                            Director(1).

                10/02-11/02    4       --   Co-TTL& Sr. Economist(1);                 S              S
                                            Co-TTLand Rural Development
                                            Specialist(1);Agricultural Economist
                                            (1); Ag. & Rural Development
                                            Specialist(1).

                11/11/2002     6       --   Co-TTL(2);Ag. Ops. officer (1);           S              S
                                            Agri-businessspec. (1);Public
                                            expend. Spec. (1); Economist(1)

                2/28/2003      2       - Co-TeamLeader(1);Sr.Ag.                      S              S
                                            Economist(1).

                 7/2003        3       --   TTL and Sr. Economist(1);                 S              S
                                            Advisor to the ED (1); Economist
                                            (1).

                12/12/2003     2            CottonTeam Leader(1);                     S              S
                                            Agri. Economist(1).


e
2
u
.3
v)
ta
pi
..
\o
m
z
P




r-
a;\
m
10
2


                                             43


Annex C: The SupplementalGrant to
SAC I11

1.     A single tranche SDRlO.5 million(US$l5 million) Supplemental Grantto SAC
I11was approved inDecember 2003 to help finance the additional financing gap that
emergedthat year due to the ongoingIvoriancrisis, inorder to helpprevent the reform
program from sliding off track. This grant met the Bank's requirements for supplemental
financing (OP 13.20) andwas consistent with the recently completed July 2003 country
assistancestrategy. Mali's entire share o fIDA grants was applied to this supplement,
which was associatedwith additional financing from the EU, and the governments o fthe
Netherlands, France, and Sweden, for a total o f about US$20million equivalent.

2.     The approval o fthis grant requiredthat: (i) was maintaining anappropriate
                                                     Mali
macroeconomic framework, andthat hadbeen confirmedby the sixth and final review o f
the Fund's PGRFoperation inJuly 2003; and (ii) progress inthe implementationof
                                                   that
SAC I11was also beingmaintained, and that was confirmed inthe report requestingthe
releaseo fthe third tranche o fthat credit, dated August 25, 2003. Inaddition to meeting
these two requirements, comfort was also providedby the intention, at the time, that IFC
would be involved inthe privatization o f CMDT.

3.     The ProgramDocument for this grant, dated November 13,2003 included a
detailed account o fthe adverse consequenceso f the persistingcrisis inCote d'Ivoire, and
o fmeasures that the country hadbeentaken to ameliorate them. These measures
included: (i) developing alternative transport routes and facilities; (ii)
                                                                         adjusting tax
exemptions, delaying the application o fthe special tax onpetroleum products, and
increasing non-bank financing to help settle obligationsto the power, water, and
telecommunications utilities; and (iii)trying to encourage other sources o f growth such as
agro-industries, mining, tourism, with the participation o f foreign investors.

4.      The grant wasjustifiedbythe following considerations: (i)was consistent with
                                                                      it
the SAC I11legal covenants; (ii) other fhding on reasonable terms was believed
                                  no
available; (iii)there was not sufficient time available to process a new adjustment
operation; (iv) the Borrower was judged to have sufficient commitment and competence
to carry onwith the implementationo f the ongoingreforms; and (v) IDA'Scontribution
was part o f a larger internationalfinancing package.

5.      The ProgramDocument for this grant was well articulated. The effects o fthe
ongoing Ivoriancrisis on the economy ofMali were serious and contributed to a
significant increase inthe balance o fpayments deficit and, inturn, to external financing
requirements. The ProgramDocument estimated that almost US$60 million in
exceptional financing would be neededin2003 inthe revisedmacroeconomic
framework, due to the crisis. Whereas the government's commitment to the restructuring
ofthe cotton sector remained questionable, its track record and commitment to reforms in
several other areas (including fiscal, monetary, trade and pricingpolicies; as well as

                                             44


credible efforts to encourage private sector development ingeneral) were worthy o f
continued support.

                                            45


Annex D: Related Operations
1. Althoughthis assessmentis only ofthe four coreoperations discussed inthe body o f
the report, a very briefdescriptionis presented below o f a numbero frelatedoperations.
This is intendedto give the overall evaluationabroader perspective.

Previous Operations

2. In1988, two twinoperations, one adjustment andthe other technicalassistance, were
approved to assist inthe restructuringo f the PE sector.

3. Public Enterprise SectorAdjustment Project (PESAP). This SDR29.3 million
(US$40 million) credit was approved on June 24, 1988 andbecame effective on
September 29, 1988. It closed on June 30, 1992, after a 6 months delay from the original
closing date.

4. Followingindependence in 1960 andthroughout the subsequenttwo to three decades,
the PE sector had grown to dominate the economy. However, by and large, its
performance was rather poor andit accumulated a large debt, with a detrimentaleffect on
the economy. Under the 1989-92 PFP, the Bankhad originally thought o f assisting the
government's efforts to deal with the sector's problems with a PErehabilitation
operation. This was subsequently abandoned infavor o fthis full-fledgedPE sector
adjustment operation.

5. Inretrospect, it turnedout to be a somewhat ambitious project, inview o f
implementationcapacity constraints and the country's overall economic conditions at the
time. Somenotable achievements took place, interms ofreducingthe burdenofthe PE
sector onthe state budget, through liquidations andprivatizations.However, the actual
outcome o f improvingthe overall Performance o fpublic enterprises was disappointing.
The Performance Audit Report (PAR) rated the credit's overall performance as
marginally satisfactory.

6. The legacy o fthis operation from the perspective o fthe Malian authorities was quite
unfavorable. They felt that the Bankhadimposed wholesale privatization o fthe country's
PE sector, without adequatepreparation, and subjected the process to unrealistic, pre-
determined dates. This, intheir view, ledto the unnecessary liquidationo f a significant
portion o fthe production base o fthe country, and created severe political difficulties for
the authorities, particularlywith the unions. This legacy continues to affect the attitude o f
the authorities regarding privatization,particularly that which espousespre-set dates for
sale, or liquidation o fPES.

7. Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project (PEIDP). This
SDR7.0 million (US$9.5 million) credit was approved inconjunction with PESAP, but
two days later, on June 26,1988. Itbecame effective on the same day as PESAP on
September 29, 1988, and closed onApril 30, 1996.

                                             46


8. Its mainobjective was to provide technical support to the entities that were to be
involved inthe PE sector reform. It consisted of five components that included
institutionaldevelopment measures and studies. The ICR, dated June 19, 1996 concluded
that this project achieved its objectives only partially andratedits overall outcome
unsatisfactory.

9. The mainproblems, according to the ICR, were unclear implementationplans, and
insufficient commitmentbythe implementation agencies.

Concurrent Operations

10. The only concurrent operation considered inthis assessmenti s a 1992 credit designed
to assist inthe development o f the private sector.

11.Private SectorAssistanceProject (PSAP). This SDR8.2million(US$12.0 million)
credit was approved onNovember 12, 1992; became effective on July 8, 1993; and closed
on March 31,2002.

12. Its main objective was to support the development o f the private sector as a primary
engineo fgrowth. It consisted originally o f four components: (i)     regulatory;
(ii)institutional development; (iii) and (iv) informationcampaigns relatedto the
                                     studies;
project. Problems with project design and implementation arrangements were identified
early on, and some components were modified, or dropped, duringtwo project
restructurings.

13. There was a major divergence inthe performance ratings assigned to this project in
the ICR, comparedto an internalproject assessment. The ICRgave the following ratings:
satisfactory for outcome; likely for sustainability; satisfactory for Bank performance; and
satisfactory for Borrower performance. An internalproject assessment, on the other hand,
gave the following ratings: moderately satisfactory for outcome; unlikely for
sustainability; unsatisfactory for Bankperformance; and unsatisfactory for Borrower
performance. The internal project assessment concluded that whereas the project ledto
improvements inthe policy, legal andregulatory framework, successful implementation
o fthese reforms remains uncertain. Although the mentionedinternalproject assessment
felt that the quality o f the ICRwas generally satisfactory, it felt that the ICR hadtracked
objectives and outputs, rather than outcomes, when evaluating project performance.


Subsequent Operations

 14. Two subsequent operations are considered briefly inthis assessment:the Fourth
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV); and the Growth Support Project (GSP).

 15. Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC Iv). This SDR16.5 million
(US$25 million) credit was approved on March 22,2005, andbecame effective onMay
 12,2005. Itwas prepared quite rapidly since there was a needto meet an urgent financing
gap for Mali. InJuly 2004, the world price o f cottondropped sharply. To protect the
farmers, the Governmentdidnot reduce the purchase price from farmers. The resultant

                                             47


losses o fthe cotton PEwere absorbed by the budget, necessitating urgent financial
supportto protect the integrityo fthe macroeconomic situation.

16. While Mali's Country Policy and InstitutionalAssessment (CPIA) ratingqualifies it,
inprinciple, for aPovertyReductionSupport Credit (PRSC) operation, IDAhasnot
madethis instrument available yet, becauseo fthe poor progress beingmade inreforming
the cotton sector. Instead, andinview o fthe urgent need for filling the country's overall
financing gap, the Bank electedto move aheadwith SAC N,as atransitionalinstrument;
with the added original intention to follow it up with a SAC V, also on a transitional
basis. The proposed SAC V has since beenreplacedby a First Development Policy
Credit (DPC I),  which i s under preparation.

17. Becauseo fthe difficulties encountered inimplementingthe cotton sector component
of SAC 111, the design o f SAC I V was intentionallykept simple, andthe credit consisted
oftwo components: (i)    private sector led growthto reduce poverty; and (ii) sector
                                                                             public
expenditure management (a ubiquitous component inall o f Mali's adjustment operations,
at least since SAC Iin 1990). The measures included inthe second component follow up
on progress o fmeasures implementedunder SAC 111.The private sector component
focuses on fiscal policy incentives and the financial sector.

18. Growth Support Project. This credit o f SDR12.6 million (US$19.5 million) was
approved on February 15,2005. It is based on an Investment Climate Assessment andi s
designedto help promote sustainable andmore diversifiedgrowth, ledbythe private
sector. The main components o fthe project are: (i)  implementation o fthe
recommendations o fthe Investment Climate Assessment, focusing on improving the
legal andregulatory framework, andpolicy-makingand operational capabilities for
private sector development; (ii) infrastructure support for growth, focusing on an
industrialzone, Bamako airport, telecommunications, and infrastructure for tourism and
mining; (iii) improving financial and non-financial services, focusing on micro, small and
medium enterprises (MSMEs); and (iv) project coordination, monitoring, and evaluation.


                                              49


Annex E: IMFPrograms
1.      Duringthe 1992-2002period, the Fundprovided financial support to Maliunder
three consecutive arrangements; the first under the ESAF, andthe following two under
the PRGF.A secondandmorerecent PRGFprogram covers the 2004-07 period.

2.      The Fundprograms included a number o fprior actions, perfonnance criteria, and
macroeconomic and structural benchmarks. The main policy areas covered included:
fiscal and monetary policy; the regulatory and legal system, particularly regardingprivate
sector development; cotton sector reform; privatization o fPEs ina number o f sectors,
includingtelecommunications; pricing o f cotton andpetroleumproducts; and others.

3.      In2003, anArticle lV Consultationwas conducted, andits report, dated
November24,2003, included an annex which presented an ex-post assessment o f
performance under Fund-assistedprograms during 1992-02. According to this
assessment, the main achievements were: (i)     macroeconomic imbalances were reduced,
and growth accelerated, partly due to the 1994 devaluation, but also due to the
commitment to reform; (ii)   debt sustainability improved following the debt relief
providedwhenMali reachedthe completionpoint under the EnhancedHIPC Initiative;
(iii) fiscalstanceimprovedduetothestrengtheningandstreamliningoftaxpolicy
     the
and administration and increasedtax revenues; (iv) the trade regime was liberalizedby
implementingacommonexternal tariffandnarrowingthe rangeo ftariffrates on imports,
inconnectionwith the WAEMU; (v) the privatizationprogrammovedforward,
competitionincreased, and the financial system became more sound; and (vi) the
management, monitoring, and auditing o fpublic expenditures improved.

4.      Theremainingchallenges identifiedbythis assessmentincluded: (i)         poverty
reduction, economic diversification, further private sector development, and vulnerability
to exogenous shocks remained elusive objectives, andprogress on these fronts continued
to be slow and uncertain, requiringcontinuedexternal support; (ii)    public expenditure
prioritiesneededto have a better poverty-reducing focus; (iii)   the financial sector still
needed further strengthening; (iv) the benefits o fprivatizationneeded to be more visible
for the programto enjoy greater support bythe population; (v) the liberalization o fthe
cotton sector was still at a very early stage (despite efforts supported by the Bank and the
Fundinthis important area); and(vi) improvements were stillneededininstitutional
capacities, governance, and the generation and maintenance o f databaseson
macroeconomic and social indicators.

5.      Onthe implementationo fthe programs, the Fund's evaluation concludedthat
performance hadbeengenerally satisfactory, but hadbeen"somewhat better inthe
quantitative than inthe structural areas and under the ESAF than under the PRGF
arrangements."


                                              51


Annex F: MacroeconomicTargets set by
the Mali PPAR Credits

While Annex E detailed the efforts ofthe Fundto improve macroeconomic perfonnance,
three ofthe four credits that are the subject o f this PPARalso contained conditionality
relatingto ths area. This is shown inthe table below.



                           SAC I            ERC                 EMC                 SAC I11
GDP growth         4.2?'0,  1990-2000   2.4-5.1Y0,1994-                        Principallyrelies on
                                              1996                            meeting FundProgram
Inflation                 Below 3%     <35%, 1994-1996*
ODA                US$500m/annum
                          1990-1993
Current account    Decline to 12.1%    20.4% of GDP in
                    of GDP by 1993       1994; 13.4% in
                                              1996
budget surplus      Rises to 4.5% in    2.7% of GDP in
                            1993         1994;5.6% in
                                              1996
Fiscal deficit                          15.1% of GDP in
                                       1994; 10%in 1996
Fiscal balance,                                            -5.2% of GDP in
including grants                                          '96; -4.5% in'97; -
                                                             -3.9% in'98


                                           53


Annex G: Main PublicFinancialReform
Provisionsof the Mali PPAR Credits


SACI
     Prepare feasibility studies for large projects
     Establish criteria for project selection
        o Strengthen selection capacity ofNationalPlanningDirectorate and
            techcal ministries
     Strengthenproject monitoringby establishmg clear procedures

ERC
     Freeze all civil service benefits
     Other financial actions stated interms o f quantitative outcomes

EMC
  0  Prepare anduse new budget procedures manual
  0  Consolidate into the regional budgetscurrent centralministry allocations that are
     passedon to regions for execution
  0  Computerize entire budgetpreparation process
  0  Adopt new budget document format to enhance transparency
  0  Conduct staff training on budget procedures
  0  Adopt format for presentationo f large projects
  0  Prepare and adopt 1997-98 budget laws acceptable to IDA
  0  Execute annual budget reviews (1995-97) to:
        o Evaluateexpenditures vs. budget allocations
        o Identifyexpenditures inviolation ofprocedures
         o Provideinformation on sectoral andregionbreakdowns o fexpenditures
         o Closelymonitor expenditures inprimaryeducation, health, road
             maintenance, agricultural extension
  0  Strengthenmonitoring o fpublic investment budget
  0  Analyze execution o fPIP 1993-95

SAC I11
     Integrate local government expenditures into national classification system
     Treasury balance sheet produced withno more than45 days delay
     Health and education expenditures executed inline with macro andbudget
     framework and PRSP
     Integrate ODA into current and investmentbudgets
     Adopt "bridging table" to allow preparation o f 2001budget according to
     WAEMUnorms

                                    54


Estimatemediumterm macro resource envelope as well as mediumterm envelope
for health and education sectors
Document links between current andinvestment budgets for 2002 by showing for
eachprogram:
    o Amounts to be executed by each agency, byprogram
    o Associated budgetlines, program amounts, andprogram totals
Completion o f external review of functioning o fbudgetprocess
Produce MTEFreport for 2001-03 integrating expenditures forecasted for
education andhealthsectorsunderPRODEC AND PRODESS within medium-
term macro framework
Augment initialMTEFto include additional sectors as identifiedbyPRSP
Automate budget execution functions at all ministries
    o Prepareprocedural manual for budget process
    o Complete functional andtechnical study to define MIS for various units of
       MinistryofEconomics andFinance
Improve transparency, accountability, andmonitoring o f expenditures-
particularly poverty-related sectors
    o Adoption of appropriate budget codes
    o Productionof annualpublic expenditure reviews
    o Completion of audited expenditure executionreports
    o Detailedbudget statement o fH P Cresource expenditures
    o Consolidated 2001budgetstatement by functional ministryinsteado fby
       budget chapter
    o Synthesis o fbudget itemsrelated to povertyreduction
    o Synthesis of2002 budget allocationby b c t i o n (i.e., education, health,
       etc.)

                                         55


Annex H:List of Organizations and
Persons M e t

Officeofthe PrimeMinister
Mr.OusmaneIssoufiMaiga, PrimeMinister

MinistryofEconomyand Finance
Mr.Aboubacar Traore, Minister
Mr.Abdoulaye Tour&,Director, NationalBudget
Mr.SambouWague, Technical Advisor, RelationswithWB/IMF
Mr.SidiAlmoctar Oumar, TechnicalAdvisor, PublicFinance
Mr.Jean-Louis deMiras, TechnicalAdvisor, ReformofFinancialAdministrationProject
Ms.AssaDOUCOUT~,   Technical Advisor (Cotton Sector)
Mr.Cheick Oumar Sidibe, Economist, BudgetReformCell(Involved inSAC I)
Ms. AssitanKouyatC, Missions Coordinator

MinistryofEducation
Mr.YoubaBa, Director, BudgetDepartment

CottonSector ReformCommittee(MRSC)
Mr.Tiena Coulibaly, Consultant (Previous MinisterofFinance)
Mr.AlyKontao, Consultant

TextileDevelopmentCompany ofMali(CMDT)
Mr.OusmaneGuindo, President andDirectorGeneral
Mr.IbrahimaCoulibaly, PrincipalController

Syndicateof CottonProducers
Mr.KeffaDiana, Secretary General

MaliDevelopmentBank
Mr.Abdoulay Daffe, President&DirectorGeneral
Mr.MamadouDoudouSene, Director

Association ofFarmers' ProfessionalOrganizations
Mr.Lassine Sidibk, Director
Mr.MamadouTogo

Association ofNGOsofMali
Mr.BoureimaAllaye Tour&,PreviousSecretaryGeneral

Mali Women's Collective
Ms.BintouSanankoua,President

                                           56


MaliWomen's OrganizationsCoordinatingBodv
Ms.Traore Oumou-TourC, President

KONIExpertise
Mr.Koniba SidibC, Director

DevelopmentPartners
Mr.HarryBuikema, Ambassador, TheNetherlands
Ms.Louise Ouimet, Ambassador, Canada
Ms. Irene Horejs, Resident Representative, EuropeanUnion
Mr.Alexander Newton, MissionDirector, USAID

Former GovernmentOfficials
Mr.BassaryTourC, FormerMinisterofFinanceandPreviousExecutiveDirectoratthe
World Bank
Mr.BacariKon6, FormerMinister ofFinance(Currently Coordinator, FinancialSector
Development Project)
Mr.BangalyTraorC, Former Secretary General, MinistryofFinanceandEconomy
(Currently Director General o f Sahelo-Saherienne Bank)

World BankandIMF
Mr.AlassaneDiawara, CountryManager, ResidentMission
Ms.Yeyande Sangho, Sr. Operations Officer, ResidentMission
Mr.Youssouf Thiam, Economist, ResidentMission
Mr.Abdoulaye KonatC, Economist, ResidentMission
Mr.A. DavidCraig, CountryDirector, MNC04
Mr.JohnPage, ChiefEconomist, AFRCE
Mr.TedAhlers, CountryDirector, MNCOl
Mr.HasanTuluy, CountryDirector, MNACS
Mr.Emmanuel Akpa, SectorManager, AFTP1
Ms. ChristinaWood, Senior Economist, AFTP4
Mr.Zeljko Bogetic, LeadEconomist, AFTP1
Mr.Marcel0Selowsky, Assistant Director, IndependentEvaluationOffice, IMF
Mr.EdouardMaciejewski, DivisionChief, AfricanDepartment, IMF
Mr.Mounir Rached, Former, Resident RepresentativeinMali, IMF


