Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2188 MLI
                  (Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 23, 1991
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2188 MLI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF MALI
(the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
October 6, 1990, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the "Program"), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports and services required during such execution;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the imports and services required
during the execution of the Program; and
      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
Page  2
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as
hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
      Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
      detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
      execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
      Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
      and the Association of their respective obligations under the
      Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest, the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (b)   "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 27, 1990 and July 7,
1990, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (d)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986); and
      (e)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Sections 2.02 (b) and 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 50,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (1) of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, open and
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (hereinafter referred to
as "Special Account A") in BCEAO on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (2) of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, open and
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (hereinafter referred to
as "Special Account B") in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment.
      (d)   Deposits into, and payments out of, any of the Special
Accounts, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (e)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year, specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in  semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
Page  4
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is here-  by
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The National Manager (Directeur National) of
BCEAO is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions in respect to Category (1) of the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than five
hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000) equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall arrange for studies and other
technical assistance activities to support the adjustment of the
Borrower's economy as provided in the Program. To that end, the
Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
Page  5
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the ex-
penditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than four months after
                   the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Association shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account was made, all records (con-
                   tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                   other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal con-
                   trols involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Page  6
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Association that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
                   ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                   to perform any of its obligations under such
                   agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Pro-
                   ject are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINIFINANCES              972559 MINIFINANCE
                   Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
Page  7
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                         By /s/ Mohamed A. Tour¶
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Imports required         47,500,000         100% of foreign
      during execution                            expenditures
      of the Program
(2)   Technical                 2,500,000         100%
      Assistance
(3)   Refunding of                300,000         Amount due
      Project                                     pursuant to
      Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (e)
      Advance                                     of this Agree-
                                                  ment
                              ___________
          TOTAL                50,300,000
                              ===========
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from which goods and services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall also
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made out of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  8
allocated to Category (1) of the table set forth in such paragraph
in respect of:
     (a)expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
   112                --          Alcoholic beverages
   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse
   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)
   525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials
   667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
                                  precious stones, unworked or
                                  worked
   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors
   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                  wares (including set gems)
   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 10,100,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after the
date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
      (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
      (d)expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
4.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 may be permitted
by the Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify.
5.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph
1 above, after, under said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount
of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of sixteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,000,000) unless the Associa-
tion shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
Page  9
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in
Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
      (b)   No further such withdrawal shall be made and no further
such commitment shall be entered into after, under said Category,
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of thirty-two million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,000,000), unless the Association shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
6.  If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph
5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) of
paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,500,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines"), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or
           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or
          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
Page  10
equivalent of less than $2,500,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association;
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct contract-
ing procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and the informa-
tion to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                   Conditions for Release of the
              Second and Third Tranches of the Credit
Part A:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (a) (ii) of Schedule
            1 to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second
            Tranche)
1.    The Borrower has enacted tax legislation providing for:
      (a)   replacement of the Tax on Business and Services (Impot
sur les Affaires et les Services) with a Value Added Tax;
      (b)   elimination of the OSRP Tax (Taxe de l'Office de
Stabilisation et Reglementation des Prix), the Mining Fund Tax, the
Petrostock Tax and the TIC (Taxe Interieure sur les Carburants);
      (c)   reduction of the rates of Fiscal Import Tax (Droit
Fiscal a l'Importation) to three;
      (d)   application of the Excise Tax to kola-nuts, tea,
Page  11
alcohol, tobacco, cigarettes, salt, ammunition and petroleum
products; and
      (e)   application of a Degressive Protection Tax (Taxe
Degressive de Protection) to the following categories of goods:
flour, palm oil, household soap, plastic bags, bottles, embroider-
ies, kaki and printed fabrics, packing sacks, tin basins, galvanized
buckets, household articles, batteries, pastas, biscuits, plasters
and matches.
2.    Price controls have been eliminated on all items with the
exception of petroleum products.
3.    The Borrower's Labor Code has been revised so as to introduce
greater flexibility in hiring and dismissing procedures and is
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The aggregate number of the civilian employees on the payroll
of the Borrower's State Budget (civil servants and contract
employees) has been reduced to not more than 40,000.
5.    The Borrower has approved the 1991 current and investment
budget satisfactory to the Association and a 1991-1993 rolling
Public Investment Program satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower has implemented the 1990 current and investment
budget in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) (ii) of Schedule
            1 to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third
            Tranche)
1.    The Borrower has approved legislation in the Borrower's
Council of Ministers establishing a unitary personal income tax and
a unitary company profits tax.
2.    The aggregate number of the civilian employees on the payroll
of the Borrower's State Budget (civil servants and contract
employees) has been further reduced to 36,000.
3.    The Borrower has approved the 1992 current and investment
budget satisfactory to the Association and a 1992-1994 rolling
Public Investment Program satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has implemented the 1991 current and investment
budget in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Category" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the case of Special
Account B, Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of the same
Schedule;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to CFAF 2,500,000,000,
and in the case of Special Account B, to CFAF 80,000,000.
Page  12
2.    Payments out of any Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that any Special Accounts has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of any Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into such Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the relevant Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                   as shall have been shown by said documents and
                   other evidence to have been paid out of such
                   Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Category, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the relevant Eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
relevant Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to any Eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account concerned as of the date of such notice will be
Page  13
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account concerned shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
