NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2188 MLI
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE
KINGDOM OF NORWAY
in Conjunction with the Structural Adjustment Program
in the
REPUBLIC OF MALI
Dated                 2     , 1992


﻿NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2188 MLI
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   R           *    , 1992, between the ROYAL
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFA RS of the KINGDOM OF NORWAY ("Norway") and
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") to
provide for the administration by the Association of certain funds
to be made available by Norway to the Republic of Mali ("Mali").
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement dated October 2, 1986, between
Norway, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
and the Association provides the framework for cofinancing of
development projects by the parties thereto;
(B)   Norway wishes to make available to Mali a grant in the
amount of three million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 3,000,000) (the
"Grant") to assist Mali in financing part of the goods and services
required during the execution of Mali's Structural Adjustment
Program (the "Program");
(C)   Norway wishes that the proceeds of the Grant be incre-
mental to the Credit extended for the same purposes by the Asso-
ciation to Mali pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
No. 2188 MLI, dated January 23, 1991, between Mali and the Associa-
tion (the "Development Credit Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to administer the Grant upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall enter into such agreement or agreements with Mali, as
it may deem appropriate but consistent with the terms and conditions
of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the debt service
provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in the financing
of the goods and services required during the Program. Such agree-
ments with Mali shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the
Grant may be withdrawn by Mali to finance expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of technical assistance and related goods and works
required for the data collection and analysis of the social
dimensions of adjustment component of the Program. The agreements
shall also provide that the amounts to be withdrawn need not be


﻿-2-
repaid and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy of each
such agreement shall be furnished by the Association to Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of
the Program.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered into between Mali and the Asso-
ciation for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled solely
by the Association, and the Association specifically reserves the
right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to exercise,
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or
to modify any provision thezeof provided, however, that, before
suspending the right of Mali to make withdrawals of funds under such
agreement, the Association shall inform Norway and afford Norway a
reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises
with respect to the administration and management of its own affairs
and shall have no further responsibility to Norway in respect
thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway
shall, subject to parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount
of three million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 3,000,000) into the
International Development Association's Cash Account 'T' (No.
0629.05.35636) which is maintained with Norges Bank (the "Trust
Account").
(b)   The funds in the Trust Account shall be freely exchange-
able by the Association with other currencies as may facilitate
their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as from time to time shall be needed to meet
the reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to be
financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such disburse-
ment shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for
eligible expenditures submitted by Mali to the Association in
accordance with the Association's procedures for withdrawal of
proceeds of credits made by the Association.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the Asso-
ciation under this Agreement, the Association may invelt and
reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pending their disbursement
to Mali, and may retain for its own account the income from any such
investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account
disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement; and (ii) promptly after the end of each fiscal year,
furnish to Norway a statement of account on such records and
accounts.
(b)   Promptly after all funds made available under this
Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon
termination of this Agreement, whichever is the earlier, the Asso-
ciation shall cause such accounts and records to be audited and
certified by the Association's external auditors and shall furnish
the report of such audit by said auditors to Norway. The cost of
such audit shall be borne by the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from
time to time at each other's request on all matters arising out of
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of
the progress made in the implementation of the Program. To such
purpose, the Association shall furnish to Norway all relevant
progress performance and assessment reports rov3ating to the Program.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform Norway of all
forthcoming major missions and meetings in connection with the
Program and, subject to the consent of Mali, shall afford represen-
tatives of Norway the opportunity to participate in such missions
and meetings.


﻿-4-
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform Norway of any
proposed significant modification to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and shall afford Forway a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Association before effecting any such modification.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written and, subject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until all funds made available
under this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account to
Mali.
Section 5.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-
priately be carried out, the Agreement may be terminated at the
initiative of such party by a ninety (90) days' notice in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of the Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or portion
thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator on behalf
of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and any funds or other
property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be
considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after all funds made available under
this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon
termination of this Agreement, whichever is the earlier, the Asso-
ciation shall furnish to Norway a final report and a financial
statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion of the
Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such


﻿-5-
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
P.O. Box 8114 Dep.
0032 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:                   Telex:
NORAD-N                      76548 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF
THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By  5/                    Q--,r S e
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


