Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11235-Ho
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DECEMBER 14, 1992
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
T1q$l = 5.4 Honduras Lempiras (L)
SDR 1.0 = US$1.4045 (October 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer (km) = 1,000 m
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AIDS   Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BFLH   Breast-feeding League of Honduras
BMI   Maternal Child Coupon Program (Bono Materno Infantil)
BMJF   Women Head of Household Coupon Program (Bono Mujer Jefe de
Familia)
CACM   Central American Common Market (Mercado Comun Centroamericano)
CARE   Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere (NGO)
CBH   Central Bank of Honduras
CESAR Rural Health Center (Centro de Salud Rural)
CESAMO   Health Center with Physician (Centro de Salud con Medico)
CONAMA   National Environmental Commission (Comision Nacional del
Medioambiente)
EEC   European Economic Community
ESAC   Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
FHIS   Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondurelo de Inversidn
Social, also "SIF")
FHIS-I   First Honduran Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS-II   Second Honduran Social Investment Fund Project
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
GNP   Gross National Product
GOH   Government of Honduras
GPA   Global Program on AIDS
GPO   General Procurement Office (Proveedurfa General de la Republica)
HIV   Human Immunodeficiency Retroviruses
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
IDA   International Development Association
IDB   Inter-American Development Bank
IHSS   Honduran Institute of Social Security (Instituto Hondurelo de
Seguridad Social)
JNBS   National Social Welfare Board (Junta Nacional de Bienestar Social)
JUNTA Local Water and Sanitation Board (Junta Administradora de Agua)
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding
LSMS   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOE   Ministry of Education
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOH   Ministry of Public Health
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
NLO   NGO Liaison Office
PAC   Supplementary Food for Women and Children (Programa de
Alimentacidn Complementaria)
PAHO   Pan-American Health Organization
PHC   Primary Health Care
PRAF   Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar, also
"FAP )
PRONASSA   National Health Services Program
SAC   Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SANAA National Water and Sewerage Service Company (Servicio Autonomo
Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
SECPLAN   National Planning Secretariat
SCES   Social Cabinet Executive Secretariat
SDR   Special Drawing Rights
SOE   Statement of Expenditure
STD   Sexually Transmitted Disease
UN   United Nations
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
UNICAP   UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center
UNICEF   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID U.S. Agency for International Development
WFP   World Food Program
WHO   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HONDIURAS
NUTRITION AND H8ALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL R8PORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
BASIC DATA SHEET  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . vii
I. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION . . . . . . . . .   1
A. The Economic Reform Program .1
B.   Poverty in Honduras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C. Government Strategy.                                               4
D. Bank and IDA Support .5
E.   IDA Lending Strategy for the Social Sector  . . . . . . . . .   6
F.   Lessons Learned From Past Experience  . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
G.  Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                    9
II. THE NUTRITION AND HEALTH SECTORS       ..                               9
A.   Nutrition Overview and Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B.   Overview of the Health Sector and Issues  . . . . . . . . . .  13
C.   Sector Objectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
III.  LESSONS FROM THE PRAF PILOT FOOD COUPON PROGRAMS  . . . . . . . . .  23
A. Overview of the Programs .23
B.   Evaluation Findings and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . .  25
IV.  THE   PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
A. Origin of the Project .27
E. Objectives .27
C. Description .28
D.   Lending Arrangements and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . .  36
E. Costs and Financing Plan .38
F. Procurement .41
G.  Supervision and Reporting .44
H. Disbursements .45
I.   Documentation of Expenditures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
J.   Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
K.   Annual Project Implementation Reviews . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
This report is based on the recommendations of an evaluation study of PRAF
food coupons program undertaken in November 1991 (Report No. 10488-HO) and on
the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Honduras in July 1992.
The mission was composed of Messrs./Mes. A.M. Sant'Anna, Task Manager, E. de
Gaiffier A. (LA2HR), R. Bitran, A. Cajina, R. Jarquin, M.A. Roschke and F. Vio
(CONS). Messrs./Mmes. Arriagada, de St. Antoine, Dorkin, and Nguyen
contributed to the report at headquarters. Messrs. Rainer B. Steckhan (LA2DR)
and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are the Department Director and Division Chief,
respectively, for this operation and Messrs./Mfes. F. Mardones, P. Musgrove
and A. Dianderas (LATHR) are the Peer Revievers.
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  BPNBFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                48
A. Benefits ..........48
B.    Risks   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .48
VI.  AGRBDKUTS REACHED AND RCONATIXOU.  . . . . . . . . . .49
A.    Agreements Reached ................49
B.    Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
1.    Project Costs
2.    Financing Plan
3.    Disbursement Schedule
4.    Project Area
5.    Regional Organization of the Ministry of Health
6.    Project Performanc  Indicators
7.   Annual Project Implementation Reviews
8.    Impact of the PRAF Food Coupon Progrm_
9.    Improvements in the PRAF Food Coupon Program  to be Implemented Under
the Project
10. PRAF Food Coupon Programs: Targeting Criteria and Expansion Plan
11.   PRAF Organizational Chart
12.   Nutrition Education
13.   Primary Health Care Centers
14.   Human Resources Development of the NM
15.   Basic Drugs for the Primary Helth Care Network
16.   Environmental Health
17.  Terms of Reference for Studies
18.   Nutrition and Health Sector Policy Letter
19.  Draft Outline of PRAF Operational Manual
20.  Draft Outline of Water Supply and Sanitation Operational Manual
21.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP: IBRD No. 24083



HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Honduras
Executina AQencies:   The Ministry of Public Health (MOH)
The Family Assistance Program (PRAF)
Social Cabinet Executive Secretariat (SCES)
Beneficiaries:         Targeted poor groups in rural and urban marginal areas,
particularly mothers and children under eight years of
age, in the 13 departments with the highest
malnutrition rates
Amount:                SDR17.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10
years of grace
Proiect Obiectives:   The proposed project would help achieve the following
objectives: (a) protect groups particularly vulnerable
to the economic adjustment process by channeling
nutrition assistance to improve the nutrition status of
children and pregnant and nursing women among the
poorest segments of the population; (b) support the
development and implementation of a longer-term
nutrition 4ssistance strategy for Honduras; (c) reduce
maternal, child, and infant mortality and morbidity
rates by improving access to basic health services and
safe water supply and sanitation, by improving the
quality of services provided by the MOH, and by
supporting health, nutrition, and family planning
education activities; (d) strengthen the institutional
capacity of the MOH, the PRAF and the SCES for sector
planning, program formulation, monitoring, and
evaluation, and improve efficiency in the procurement
of drugs; and (e) control the spread of AIDS.
Proiect Description:  The project would provide for:  (a) Expanding nutrition
assistance and develoning a lonQer-term nutrition
uolicv (US$32.2 million equivalent to 591 of total
project cost) through: (i) formulation and
implementation of a longer-term nutrition policy
(0.21); (ii) expansion of the PRAF food coupon programs
to about 255,000 poor, pregnant and nursing women,
children under five, and primary school children in the
13 departments with the highest malnutrition rates
(551); (iii) technical assistance to strengthen PRAF's
institutional capacity to administer the program in the



iv
project area (21); (iv) nutrition education for health
staff, community workers and mothers focusing on
breast-feeding, weaning and early childhood feeding
practices (2%); and (v) annual nutrition censuses at
public primary schools (1U); (b) Strenathenina the
delivery of basic health services (US$16.7 million
equivalent to 281 of total project cost) including:
(i) rehabilitation of about 130 health care centers and
construction of an estimated 30 additional health
centers in priority rural areas where services are
currently not available (71); (ii) improvement of MOH
institutional capacity through additional staff, staff
training, and supervision and institutional support to
the project unit of the MOH (61); (iii) basic drugs for
the primary health care network and technical
assistance to improve the efficiency of pharmaceutical
procurement (131); and (iv) support of the formulation
and implementation of a medium-term national AIDS
control program (41); (c) Improving environmental
health (US$4.1 million equivalent to 71 of total
project cost) through: (i) provision of rural water
supply and sanitation supported by community
participation, benefitting about 60,000 people in poor
underserved communities in four departments (7.91); and
(ii) a medical waste disposal training program (0.11);
and (d) Monitoring. evaluation and auditing (US$1.2
million equivalent to 21 of total project cost)
including institutional strengthening of the SCES.
Benefits:              The main benefits of the project would be to:  (i)
prevent a deterioration in the nutritional status of
the population most at risk to the impact of the
economic adjustment program, through the distribution
of food coupons; (ii) support longer-term nutrition and
health sector policy formulation and implementation;
(iii) reduce maternal, child and infant mortality and
morbidity rates by improving access to basic health
services and safe water supplies and sanitation; (iv)
increase the coverage and efficiency of primary
education through increased enrollment and lower
repetition and dropout rates; (v) improve poor
children's capacity to learn through better nutrition
and greater school attendance; (vi) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the MOH, SCES and PRAF; and
(vii) help curtail the spread of AIDS.
Risks:                 The main risks associated with the project are:  (i)
management constraints affecting PRAF's operational
capacity to administer expanded food coupon programs,
and to adjust them to the Government's longer-term
nutrition policy; the project would reduce this risk
through institutional strengthening of PRAF; (ii)
delays in improving the quality of basic health
services in the project area due to institutional



v
constraints facing the MOH; the project would reduce or
eliminate this risk through institutional strengthening
of the MOH, annual reviews of project implementation,
and improved health and nutrition expenditure controls
and budget planning at the MOH. Risks (i) and (ii)
would also be addressed through close IDA supervision,
especially in the food coupon program, which is a new
area for the Bank group; and (iii) uncertain
sustainability of the PRAF food coupon programs beyond
project support; this risk would be reduced by: (a)
assisting the GOH in securing donor participation for
the formulation and implementation of a long-term
national nutrition assistance strategy; and (b)
attracting additional donor assistance for further
support of the PRAF food coupon programs.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:'                       Local       Foreian       Total
US$ million
I.    NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
A. Nutrition Policy                       0.01          0.09        0.10
B. PRAF Food Coupons                     21.00          9.00       30.00
C. PRAF Technical Assistance              0.35          0.61        0.96
D. Nutrition Education                    0.44          0.29        0.73
E. Nutrition School Census                0.22          0.02        0.24
Subtotal                                 22.02         10.01       32.03
II.   HEALTH SERVICES
A. Primary Health Care Centers            1.47          1.58        3.05
B. Human Resources Development            2.68          0.05        2.73
C. Basic Drugs                            0.63          5.83        6.46
D. AIDS Program                           0.53          1.32        1.85
Subtotal                                  5.31          8.78       14.09
III.   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH                      2.08          1.10        3.18
IV.    MONITORING. EVALUATION
AND AUDITING                              0.47          0.60        1.07
BASE COST                                29.88         20.49       50.37
Physical Contingencies              0.32          0.25        0.57
Price Contingencies                 2.16          1.13        3.29
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       32.36         21.87       54.23
Net of taxes and duties.



vi
FINANCING PLAN:
Local       Foreign      Total
US$ million
Government of Honduras                    9.45           1.78      11.23
Beneficiaries                             0.69           0.29       0.98
IDA                                      12.06          12.94     25.00
USAID                                     1.80           1.20       3.00
World Food Program                        6.00           4.00      10.00
UTNDP                                     0.14           0.19       0.33
UNICEF                                    0.11           0.00       0.11
PAHO                                      0.01           0.07       0.08
Other Donors                              2.10           1.40       3.50Y'
TOTAL FINANCING                          32.36          21.87      54.23
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS:
IDA Fiscal Year                                    199        1996
US$ million -
Annual                   4.8'       9.4        7.7        3.1
Cumulative               4.8       14.2       21.9       25.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:  Not applicable
Y The GOH is pursuing discussions with donors interested in the project (see
para. 4.15).
Y Includes Special Account deposit of US$2.0 million.



vii
9tit          Y  r
A. General Country Data
GNP per capita                                     570   US$ (estimate)    1991
Population                                         5.1  Million (amt.)    1991
Projected Population Year 2000                     6.3  Million
B. Demoaranhic indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 inh.)                  6.8   Deaths              1991
Population Growth Rate                             2.8   Percent (est.)    1991
Total Fertility Rate                                5.2   Births             1990
Life Expectancy at Birth                          66.3   Years               1991
Women aged 15-44 using contraceptives             29.7   Percent             1991
C. Basic Health Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)    50.0   Deaths               1989
Mortality of Children 0-5 Caused by
Diarrhea and Acute Reospiratory Infections      46.5   Percent             1987
Maternal Mortality Rate
(per 100,000 live births)                       221.0   Deaths             1990
Births Unattended by Health ItaUi                  53.0   Percent            1991
Physicians (per 10,000 inh.)                       4.1   Physicians          1991
Nurses (per 10,000 inh.)                            1.5   urses             1991
Auxiliary Nurses (per 10,000 inh.)                 10.0  Aux. Nurses         1991
MOH Expenditures as k of
Total Current Expenditures                        7.2   Percent             1991
MOH Expenditures as % of GDP                        2.0   Percent            1991
D. Basic Nutrition Indicators
Low Weight of Infants at Birth                    20.0   Percent             1985
Children 0-5 malnourished (weight/age)            46.4   Percent             1990
Children 6-9 yru malnourished (height/age)        34.9  Percent              1991
Households Consumption of Food below
80t adequacy                                     49.1  Percent             1987
E. Environmental Health
Lack of access to safe water supply               36.0   Percent            1989
rural areas:                                52.0   Percent            1989
urban areas:                                15.0   Percent            1989
Lack of access to adequate exreta disposal        38.0   Percent            1989
rural areas:                                58.0   Percent            1989
urban areas:                                11.0   Percent            1989



viii
F. Basic Education Indicators
Adult Illiteracy Rate                              32.4   Percent             1988
Primary School Enrollment/Children 7-13 yr.        93.0   Percent            1991
Primary Education Repetition Rate                  11.7   Percent            1991
Primary Education Completion Rate                  30.6   Percent            1991
Primary Students per Teacher                         37   Students           1989
NOR Expenditure as e of
Total Current Expenditures                        18.6   Percent            1990
MOE Expenditure as e of GDP                         8.2   Percent            1990
Sources:  SECPLAN, MOH, MOE, SCES, 1991 MOH Epidemiological and Health Survey.
DEFINITIONS
Crude Death Rate         Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate   Number of deaths of infants under one year of age in a
given year per 1,000 live births.
Life Expectancy Rate    Average number of years an infant would live if
prevailing age/sex-specific mortality trends at the
time of birth were to continue.
Total Fertility Rate    Average number of children who would be born alive to
a woman during her lifetime if she were to pass
through her child-bearing years conforming to the
prevailing age-specific rates.
Enrollment Rate          Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled
in schools at a particular level of education.
Adult Illiteracy Rate   Percentage of population aged 15 and over who cannot
read or write.
Completion Rate          Ratio between the number of students exiting last
grade of an education cycle and the number of students
entering the first grade of the same education cycle.



HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE RCONOMIC REFORK PROGRAM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
A.    The Economic Reform Procram
1.1. Since March 1990, the Government of Honduras (GOH) has carried out a
comprehensive economic stabilization and adjustment program designed to
correct distortions resulting from past macroeconomic mismanagement and to lay
the foundation for sustained economic growth over the medium-term. The
stabilization program has focussed on increasing tax revenues, adjusting the
exchange rate to reflect market trends, reducing public expenditures,
increasing tariffs for major public enterprises, and reducing Central Bank
financing of the fiscal deficit. The structural adjustment program has rested
on five pillars: (i) a trade/tariff reform promoting the production of
exportable and efficient import-substitution goods; (ii) a gradual
liberalization of financial sector policies and regulations; (iii)
administrative decontrol of agricultural pricing and marketing, including
elimination of the public monopoly on the basic grains trade; (iv) public
sector reforms in the areas of tax structure and administration, investment
programming; and (v) public enterprise restructuring. At the sectoral level,
the GOH expanded the reform program in late 1991 to the energy sector, with
the objective of establishing a sound framework for energy policy formulation
and regulatory functions, enhancing the efficiency and financial viability of
the electricity subsector, and promoting greater competition in the petroleum
(oil and gas) subsector through deregulation of pricing, distribution, and
exploration activities.
1.2. Good macroeconomic performance during 1991 suggests that the economy is
recovering from the 1990 recession and attests to the GOH's satisfactory
implementation of the economic stabilization and adjustment programs described
above. Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.9% and agricultural output grew
by 3.4% with strong increases in production of nontraditional agricultural
commodities for the export market and maquila activities in the free trade
zones. While encouraging, this GDP growth rate is only slightly below the
population growth rate of about 2.8% per year, resulting in a decline of per
capita GDP. The fiscal deficit was contained at about 3.5% of GDP (down from
8.4% in 1990), and inflation declined from about 11 during the fourth quarter
of 1990 to 2% during the fourth quarter of 1991. In the same period private
and public investment increased by 11.5% and 30.3%, respectively.
1.3. Implementation of the stabilization and adjustment program has had a
mixed impact on different sectors of the economy and on rural and urban
families. Liberalization of the exchange rate and decontrol of agricultural
prices have increased income earning opportunities in agricultural and export-
oriented activities (as well as in efficient import-substituting industries).
Consequently, real incomes appear to be increasing for participants involved
in these sub-sectors of the economy. These same factors, however, have
increased hardships for urban dwellers and net consumers of food in rural



2
areas, who face higher prices for basic foods and other consumer commodities.
Contraction of employment in the central government and publicly-owned
enterprises has largely affected urban workers, as has the increase in tariffs
for public utilities (water, sanitation, electricity, telephone), since these
services are not widely available in rural areas. While severance payments
have helped cushion the impact of layoffs and many affected workers have found
employment in the private formal and informal sectors of the economy, the high
levels of open unemployment and underemployment in Honduras at 4.6% and 30.1%,
respectively, in 19911' have meant that families have often faced reductions
in disposable income.
1.4. The combined impact of these factors on the real income of the poorest
families has raised serious concerns that health and nutrition indicators may
decline in the short-term, particularly among the vulnerable groups consisting
of pregnant and nursing mothers and children under five. There is also
concern that the welfare of children from poor families may deteriorate in
other ways, resulting from increased pressure on parents to withdraw children
from school and put them to work. The seriousness of such potential
developments, when viewed against the background of Honduras' underlying
chronic poverty, spurred the GOH to establish two innovative safety net
programs in 1990: first, the Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Iondureflo
de Inversion Social, FHIS), which finances labor-intensive social and economic
infrastructure, social services, and informal sector subprojects; and second,
the Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asignacion Familiar, PRAF), which
provides nutritional assistance via food coupons for the most vulnerable
groups of the population. The dimensions of poverty in Honduras are explored
in greater detail in the following section.
B.    Poverty in Honduras
1.5. Honduras, with an estimated population of 5.1 million in 1991, is one of
the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere. Its 1991 gross national
product (GNP) per capita of US$570 is higher only than that of Haiti, Guyana,
and Nicaragua. Fifty-seven percent of the population live in rural areas.
The population of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, the largest cities in the
country, are estimated at 600,000 and 340,000 inhabitants, respectively.
Although social indicators have improved over the last 20 years, they are
still very low: between 1972 and 1991, estimates of average life expectancy
increased from 53.1 to 66.3 years and infant mortality declined from 124.9 to
50.0 per 1,000 lives births. Extreme poverty affects over 50 of the national
population and nearly 80% of the rural population. The poverty problem is
aggravated by the rapid population growth of about 2.8% per year, arising from
high fertility rates (5.2 children per woman of childbearing age on a national
scale, and over six children in rural areas in 1990), low levels of
contraceptive use (60.8% in urban areas and 36.1% in rural areas in 1991), and
low birth spacing, with 30% of births taking place in an interval of less than
24 months.
1.6. Health and nutrition indicators reflect the acute problems facing the
Honduran poor: lack of sufficient income leading to inadequate diets, lack of
sanitation (38% of households lack appropriate excreta disposal and 36% do not
' SECPLAN. Multipurpose Household Survey, May 1991. In urban areas, open
employment and underemployment estimates were 7.6% and 25.2%, respectively.



3
have access to safe water), deficient coverage of the primary health care
(PHC) system (which currently reaches approximately 601 of its target
population), and ignorance about hygiene, correct nutritional practices and
preventive health care. Infant mortality is due largely to diarrhea and acute
respiratory infections. Maternal mortality is estimated to average 221 per
100,000 live births.k These indicators are much higher in rural areas and
are subject to wide regional variations. For example, maternal mortality is
estimated at above 340 per 100,000 in the three poorest health regions.
Honduras has made significant progress in controlling transmissible diseases
in recent years through intensive immunization campaigns. During the 1990-91
period, there were no reported cases of poliomyelitis, cholera or hemorrhagic
dengue, and only a handful of cases of typhoid and measles. Nevertheless, the
incidence of diarrhea, acute respiratory infections and malaria continue to be
very high, and the recently observed explosive pattern of transmission of
Human Immunodeficiency Retroviruses (HIV) and Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome (AIDS), is of epidemic proportions, particularly in the northwestern
coastal region of the country (para. 2.14).
1.7. Nutritional deficiencies are a contributing factor in about 60* of
infant deaths, and in 1990, an estimated 461 of children under five were
estimated to be malnourished. By the time they enter primary school, 351 of
children are stunted, a sequel of chronic undernutrition. Undernutrition is a
major health problem of pregnant and nursing women: over half the women
attending health centers suffered from mild or moderate anaemia and vitamin A
deficiency. These national averages mask large regional disparities. For
example, in the poorest regions the malnutrition rate for children under five
is estimated to exceed 65%.
1.8. The status of education in Honduras is also critical. Although school
enrollment indicators show good access to public schools (931 net enrollment),
the country has a 321 adult illiteracy rate, and on average the population
attains only 2.4 years of schooling. Repetition and dropout rates are high,
with only 30W of those who enter first grade likely to reach sixth grade at
the national level, and much worse in rural areas. Part of the reason for
these low completion rates (particularly in rural areas) is that over 361 of
primary schools offer less than six grades. Repetition in primary school is
201 and 121 in the first and second grades, respectively. The dropout rates
average 3.71 and are 5.2* in first grade, reflecting a legacy of poor
management and inappropriate resource allocation in the education sector,
which has resulted in low internal efficiency of the education system in
general, and of the primary level in particular. The primary education
system, especially, suffers from a severe shortage of classrooms,
deterioration of existing facilities, and a lack of textbooks, desks, and
teaching materials.
C.    Government Strategy
1.9. The GOH's fundamental goals for poverty alleviation are to: (i) improve
child and maternal survival; (ii) develop the human capabilities of the
population; and (iii) enhance income earning opportunities for the lowest
v The Honduran maternal mortality rate is only exceeded in Latin America by
that of Haiti, estimated at 230 per 100,000 live births.  See UNDP, HIuma
Development Report. 1990.



4
income groups (Annex 18). To achieve these objectives, the GOH is
implementing a two-pronged strategy in the social sectors. In the short-term,
priority is being given to execution of the safety net programs managed by the
FHIS and the PRAF, which are targeted to the most vulnerable members of
society and are intended to prevent a deterioration in the already precarious
living standards of the poorest groups during the adjustment period. Although
these institutions are viewed as temporary,F and as providing a transitional
instrument for responding rapidly to a critical poverty situation, their
programs may be extended until the line ministries have been strengthened and
project activities may be reintegrated into normal ministry operations. More
generally, to protect social sector programs from the full impact of the
austerity measures underway, it is the GOH's intention to at least maintain
the share of social expenditures in the budget roughly constant in real terms,
at one third of public spending and about 11i of GDP, during the remainder of
this Administration ending in December 1993. In the medium-term, the need to
expand the coverage and quality of basic social services is likely to demand
higher budgetary allocations. However, the scale of such increase will depend
partly on the extent to which the government is able to implement planned
reforms to increase management efficiency and redirect scarce resources toward
the country's neediest groups (para. 1.11). The Government's policy in
nutrition and health is presented in its nutrition and health policy letter,
satisfactory to IDA (Annex 18), which was presented at negotiations (para.
4.4(a)).
1.10. PHIS assistance includes rehabilitation of schools and health centers,
construction of latrines and wells, provision of teaching materials and health
supplies, training for social personnel, and credit for informal sector
activities. The FHIS has worked closely with the Ministries of Public Health
(MOH) and Education (MOE) and with local communities to ensure that these
entities would provide staff and finance operating expenses and maintenance on
a recurrent basis for social infrastructure rehabilitated or constructed with
FHIS financing. Over the next three years, the GOH also plans to expand the
food coupon program managed by the PRAF in collaboration with the MOH and MOE,
to the poorest areas of Honduras. To optimize the nutritional impact of the
food coupons among the target beneficiary population (poor pregnant and
lactating women, primary school students, and children under five), program
expansion would include strengthening the operations of primary health centers
and primary schools and improving rural water supply and sanitation. The
concept of integrating an improved PRAP food coupon program with provision of
other basic social services, emerged from discussions between the Government
and IDA based on an evaluation of the pilot phase of the food coupon program
carried out by IDA under the Social Investment Fund Project (FHIS-I) (Cr.
2212-HO) (para. 3.5). The GOH has also created a Nongovernmental Organization
(NGO) Liaison Office (NLO) to facilitate NGO activities in Honduras and to
strengthen the partnership between the public sector and NGOs in addressing
poverty problems. This initiative is being supported by IDA under the Second
Social Investment Fund project (FHIS-II) (Cr. 2401-HO).
1.11. The GOH's strategy for the medium-term is to develop and implement a
social sector reform program that would: (i) improve policy formulation,
' The original legal life of the FHIS ends in March 1994. The life of the
PRAF was originally scheduled to end in January 1994. Congressional Decree
No. 135.92, published November 14, 1992, extends PRAF's life indefinitely.



5
sector management, and program coordination in the social sectors; (ii)
increase the efficiency and equity of social sector programs by shifting
resources to PHC, basic education, and water supply and sanitation
(particularly in rural areas); (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of
social sector line ministries; and (iv) review nutritional assistance programs
to ensure that the most vulnerable groups benefit, efforts and resources are
not duplicated, and that programs are as cost-effective and efficient as
possible. To coordinate efforts on social sector policy formulation and
programs, the GOH created the Social Cabinet and its Executive Secretariat
(SCES) in 1991 (Annex 18). Work on developing such a broad sector reform
program is currently underway with assistance from the Japanese Technical
Assistance Grant Facility, administered by IDA. Social sector reform
implementation has already started in several areas and would be supported by
the proposed Nutrition and Health project (para. 4.2). As a result of these
efforts, the GOH expects to be able to integrate, as much as possible, the
experience and activities of the FHIS, the life span of which is limited
(para. 2.15), into mainstream ministry programs.
D.    Bank and IDA SurDort
1.12. The Bank and IDA have supported the GOH's efforts to restructure and
reactivate the economy through a combination of technical advice and financial
assistance. Following the clearance of arrears to the Bank Group in late June
1990, a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) of US$90 million was
approved in September 1990, followed by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
of SDR14.3 million in January 1991, and an Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
(ESAC) of SDR37.95 million in October 1991. As a result of Honduras's
classification as an IDA-only country in late 1991, the country became
eligible for the IDA Reflow program for the first time in FY92, and a
supplemental credit of SDR23.8 million, attached to the ESAC, was approved in
November 1991. To date, the first two tranches of SAL II (totaling US$65
million), the SAC (SDR14.3 million), the first tranche of the ESAC (SDR15.0
million) and the supplemental IDA Reflow Credit (SDR23.8 million) have been
disbursed.
1.13. IDA has also been actively involved in supporting the GOH's poverty
alleviation efforts. In February 1991, the FHIS-I Credit of SDR14.3 million
was approved to finance FHIS and other priority social sector project
activities (PRAF pilot food coupon programs, Living Standards Measurement
Survey (LSMS), sector planning). Following the successful implementation of
FHIS-I, IDA approved the FHIS-II Credit of SDR7.1 million in June 1992, which
became effective in November 1992. A water supply sector loan of US$19.6
million (Ln. 2421-HO), approved in 1984, has experienced delays in
implementation. However, following clearance of arrears with the Bank and
other co-financiers, this project has been restructured, its timetable re-
phased, and implementation has now been re-initiated.
E.    IDA LendinQ Strateav for the Social Sector
1.14. The IDA sectoral lending strategy for poverty alleviation and human
resource development is to support the implementation of safety net programs
in the short-term while strengthening the institutional capacity of the line
ministries and restructuring social programs to improve their efficiency and
equity impact over the medium-term. The core poverty alleviation program to



6
achieve these objectives over the next two years consists of the FHIS-I and
FHIS-II projects, the proposed Nutrition and Health project and accompanying
sector report ("Review of the PRAF Food Coupon Programs" scheduled for
discussion with the government in January 1993), and a possible social sector
reform operation. In April 1991, the GOH requested IDA assistance to: (i)
expand the PRAF food coupon programs, strengthen PHC services, and provide
rural sanitation facilities in most underserved areas; and (ii) develop a
social sector reform program to increase the efficiency and equity of social
services, with particular attention to targeting public spending and improving
the quality and sustainability of primary health, primary education, and
nutritional assistance programs. This Government request is being processed
through two operations: (i) the proposed Nutrition and Health project; and
(ii) a social sector reform operation which is now under preparation for
possible appraisal in FY94.
1.15. A second generation of poverty reduction and human resource development
projects, building on this core program and a forthcoming Country Poverty
Assessment, the latter in preparation, would be proposed for the post-1994
period for discussion with the incoming administration. This next generation
of projects is likely to include sector investment operations in the health,
education, and water supply sectors, emphasizing program development and
implementation capacity for services required to improve Honduras's low social
indicators. In parallel, IDA support for a reform program in the agricultural
sector, currently beyond the negotiations stage, would help alleviate rural
poverty through improved access to land and efficiency gains in the
agricultural sector.
1.16. IDA support for FHIS-I and FHIS-II and for the proposed Nutrition and
Health Project would clearly contribute to the short-term strategic objective
of expanding an effective safety net for the very poor, and to the medium-term
objective of strengthening line ministry capacity and targeting social
spending. In the case of the MOH, the proposed project aims to strengthen
preventive health services, access to nutrition information and family
planning services, nutrition education (para. .6) and improved environmental
health through rural water supply and sanitatic. '- -a. 4.7), working through
the line ministry and its normal programs. The posbible social sector reform
operation would focus on instilling more discipline in the social sector
expenditure programming process, redeploying existing resources to increase
efficiency and equity in social services delivery, supporting
decentralization, cost-recovery programs, and service quality improvement.
Follow-up investment operations in subsequent years would ensure additional
service coverage expansion and consolidation of the institutional development
gains over the longer-term.
F.    Lessons Learned From Past Exoerience
1.17. Since the proposed project would be IDA's first nutrition and health
operation in Honduras, and the first instance of direct Bank Group support for
nutrition assistance in the form of financing of food coupons, the review of
past experience covered Bank- and IDA-financed health and nutrition projects
completed in other countries as well as policy support through adjustment



7
operations. In the case of AIDS, although lending started only in the early
1990s, considerable experience has been accumulated since then.4
1.18. Lessons learned from successful pilot food coupon operations have been
incorporated in the design of the PRAF food coupon program and are described
in detail in Chapter III. In addition, other types of nutrition assistance
experience have shown that successful projects are designed to:
(a)   target nutrition assistance to the poorest and most vulnerable
groups at risk in order to prevent malnutrition;
(b)   combine nutrition interventions with health care and education to
address the problems of illness and ignorance that contribute to
malnutrition;
(c)   focus interventions on the earliest phases of infancy and
childhood, including assistance to pregnant women, to improve the
chances of reaching children before malnutrition might have caused
permanent damage;
(d)   strengthen the internal efficiency of nutrition assistance
programs, aiming at simple and stable logistics and transparent
management;
(e)   ensure program sustainability by setting realistic spending
targets, reliable financing arrangements and by establishing clear norms
for phasing-out from the program those beneficiaries who no longer
represent the group most at risk of malnutrition; and
(f)   provide a reliable basis for adjustments to program design that
improve its impact on reducing malnutrition by monitoring and evaluating
program outcomes on a systematic basis.
1.19. From successful health projects, the following lessons have been learned
and were incorporated in the project design:
(a)   ensure strong and sustained support on the part of the borrower
for preventive health care;
(b)   aim at a relatively simple project design;
(c)   build in project design the necessary flexibility for change
during implementation, through reviews and revisions;
(d)   ensure the involvement of highly-qualified local staff;
(e)   provide for close supervision of project implementation;
(f)   combine direct primary health care interventions with
strengthening local organizational and policy formulation capacity; and
4 The World Bank, "Population, Health, and Nutrition FY 1991 Sector Review"
(Report No. WPS 890, April 1992). See also, "India: National AIDS Control
Project", SAR Report No. 10165-IN, March 1992.



8
(g)   improve program sustainability by providing assistance for:
sector expenditure analysis and assessment of the cost of health
services delivered; budget planning; and establishment of cost-recovery
mechanisms on an affordable basis.
1.20. Lessons learned from international as well as Bank Group experience in
helping control the spread of AIDS have been incorporated in the design of the
AIDS component. These lessons include:
(a)   address the problem quickly, at the initial stages of the
epidemic, when interventions have a higher benefit-cost ratio;
(b)   combine AIDS prevention measures with prevention and treatment of
other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs);
(c)   design prevention strategies taking into account socio-cultural
determinants of transmission behavior;
(d)   use mass media to increase awareness and focus on interpersonal
contact techniques to promote change in behavior of the groups that are
most a risk of contamination; and
(e)   mobilize broad-based support to implement the AIDS control
strategy, involving educators, NGOs, religious groups, workers and
employers, as well as health sector professionals.
1.21. Considering these lessons, the proposed project emphasizes a relatively
simple design for nutrition, health and environmental health components.
Project preparation was carried out by highly-qualified Honduran staff at the
MOH, PRAF and SCES. Most of the local project preparation staff will continue
to be involved in the project during implementation. Several of the specific
elements of the project build upon previous Honduran experience, including:
(a) PRAF's pilot food coupon programs helped design the nutrition assistance
component (Chapter III and para. 4.4); (b) MOH experience of phase one (1980-
1988) and phase two (1988-1995) of a health sector project financed by the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) helped focus on the
measures for strengthening the quality and coverage of primary health care,
and delivering environmental health services in rural areas (paras. 4.6(a)-
(c)); (c) MH experience with an emergency AIDS control program (1990-92),
which succeeded in increasing awareness of the disease countrywide, helped
design an improved and expanded AIDS control program for the medium-term
(para. 4.6(d)); and (d) MOE experience with the 1987 and 1991 nutrition
censuses of primary school children served as basis for the preparation of the
nutrition school census subcomponent (para. 4.4(e)).
1.22. The project has a strong policy formulation and institutional
strengthening focus, fully reflecting the Government's sector priorities, and
setting the stage for long term sustainability. These goals would be achieved
through: (a) the formulation of a long term nutrition policy (para. 4.4(a));
(b) streamlined nutrition and health sector management (paras. 4.4(b) and
4.6(b); (c) improved targeting and beneficiary exit criteria for nutrition
assistance (para. 4.4(b)); (d) combined health, education and environmental
health interventions with nutrition assistance (paras. 4.4(b), 4.6(b)-(c) and
4.7); (e) mobilization of resources from the private sector through the



9
participation of NGOs (para. 4.4(d); and (f) improved cost-recovery for health
services (para. 4.9(c)).
1.23. Project implementation flexibility is ensured through annual
implementation reviews based on a set of performance and impact indicators
(para. 4.9(b)). Coordination during implementation is ensured by the SC8S,
facilitating monitoring, evaluation and reporting activities by PRAF and the
MOH (para. 4.9). Strong support for the project was build during the PRAP
pilot food coupon program implementation and has since been reinforced by more
intense involvement of MOH regional and area departments, and by the
participation of local NGOs.
G.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.24. IDA involvement in the proposed project follows the successful Maternal
Child Coupon Program (BMI) pilot project (para. 3.4). The proposed project is
consistent with IDA's country and social sector assistance strategy to support
GOH efforts to alleviate poverty and prevent a deterioration in the
nutritional status of the population most at risk to the impact of the
economic adjustment program, while strengthening the administrative capacity
of the line ministries (para. 1.14). Furthermore, the project would foster
more efficient allocation of resources in the health and nutrition sectors, by
helping redress the balance between preventive and curative health care (para.
4.16) and by promoting the rationalization of nutrition assistance on a
sustainable basis (para. 4.4(a)). IDA support would also assist the GOH in
its efforts to mobilize donor assistance to control the spread of HIV
infection and AIDS, which represent a serious public health threat in Honduras
(para. 4.6(d)).
II. THE NUTRITION AND HEALTH SECTORS
A.    Nutrition Overview and Issues
2.1. The nutrition status among children under five shows a deteriorating
trend in recent years despite the relatively high level of public spending
allocated to nutrition assistance (para. 2.5). The number of children
exhibiting symptoms of malnutrition (measured by weight/age) declined from 431
in 1966 to 381 in 1987, but increased in 1990 to reach 461 on average
nationwide.
2.2. The major factors hampering the improvement of nutrition indicators in
Honduras are: (i) inadequate diets; (ii) inadequate infant feeding practices;
(iii) less than efficient nutrition assistance programs; (iv) inefficient
nutrition education; and (v) lack of a coherent nutritional policy and
strategy.
2.3. Inadeauate Diets. Despite improvements in availability of food over the
last two decades, the diets of more than 62* of Hondurans fall significantly
short of the minimum recommended calorie and protein intakes. The diet of 80*
of Hondurans consists mainly of corn, beans, rice, plantains, and vegetable
E' MOH, National Nutrition and Health Surveys for 1966, 1984, 1987, 1990 and
1991.



10
fats, with corn accounting for half the caloric intake in rural areas. This
diet has varied little over the centuries until about ten years ago, when
wheat became more readily available as a result of U.S. aid programs (wheat
imports have increased 4001 since 1975). Honduras experienced a general
improvement in its nutritional status throughout the 19709 and early 1980s,
but this trend has slowed down as a result of mounting economic problems in
the late 1980s. The ensuing food price increases, high unemployment, and
lower per capita income have contributed to the deterioration in the
nutritional status of large segments of the population, particularly women and
children. From 1987 to 1990, malnutrition rates almost doubled among
preschool children in the rural departments of Comayagua, Intibuca and La Paz
and are reported to have increased by 271 in Tegucigalpa, reflecting the high
vulnerability of the urban poor.
2.4. Inadeauate Infant Feeding Practices. Among infants, the malnutrition
problem is compounded by inadequate breast-feeding practices. The United
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) estimates that 201 of
infants are born with low birth weight. This level is considerably above the
rate in countries at a similar level of development and reflects poor access
to maternal and child health and nutrition services among the rural
population.y Proper breast-feeding practices are very important to infant
nutrition and also aid in birth spacing and in reducing diarrhea and
respiratory diseases. Health experts recommend exclusive breast-feeding for a
minimum of six months, followed by use of special weaning foods. The MOH 1990
epidemiological and health survey found that 231 of infants stopped breast-
feeding before three months of age, and another 20* before the sixth month.
Since then, the MOH has started to increase maternal education in breast-
feeding and weaning practices offered through the PHC system, with assistance
from USAID. This program would be expanded under the proposed project as
pregnant and nursing mothers and health care staff would receive intensive
training in breast-feeding practices (para. 4.4(d)).
2.5. Less than Efficient Nutrition Assistance Proarams. Honduras has relied
on food aid since the 1950s. In 1991, an estimated US$16 million or 0.71 of
the country's GDP was spent on nutrition assistance, including the amount of
food aid monetized to finance the PRAF food coupon programs and the imputed
value of food aid distributed in-kind, covering about 251 of the total
population. Program sustainability is primarily dependent upon assistance
from the donor community. The shares of each program in the total are: 121
for the school feeding program (US$1.9 million); 201 for the food-for-work
program (US$3.1 million); 33% for programs providing Supplementary Food for
women and Children (Programa de Alimentacldn Cooplementaria, PAC) (US$5.3
million); and 35% for PRAF food coupon programs (US$6.0 million). The food
distributed either in-kind or in monetized form, has been provided by the
World Food Program (WFP), USAID and the European Economic Community (BBC).
The GOH contributes with logistics and administrative support. A brief
description of each program is given below.
(a)   The school feedina oroaram, which began in 1959, benefitted
approximately 484,200 primary school children in 1991, or about 521 of
F In 1985, the percentage of underweight babies at birth was estimated at 151
in Bolivia and 171 in Haiti, two of the poorest countries in Latin America.
See UNDP State of the World's Children, 1990.



11
the total population of the public school system, covering all
departments except Tegucigalpa. The food ration, valued at about
US$0.04 per student, consists of a snack of corn-soybean which is mixed
with water and distributed daily for 160 school-days per year. Each
portion provides 200 calories and eight grams of protein. The program
is contemplating distribution of milk in addition, but milk donations
have not been received during the last two years. The program is
executed by MOE, and the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
(CARE) provides administrative support for storage, control,
distribution, and supervision of program operation at the local level.
Food donations have been provided by USAID and, since 1980, also by the
EEC. The sole criteria for beneficiary selection is enrollment in a
public kindergarten or primary school. Approximately 0S of the parents
of beneficiaries pay a monthly fee of one Lempira (L) to help cover
operating costs. Program expenditures in 1991 are estimated at US$1.9
million. The basic shortcomings of this program are: (i) the very
small size of the nutrition supplement provided (about 8% of the
recommended daily caloric intake, and about 20% of the recommended daily
protein intake); (ii) its relatively high operating costs estimated at
about half the value of the subsidy; and (iii) lack of targeting of
beneficiaries, except for the exclusion of Tegucigalpa.
(b) The food-for-work program is the largest in terms of amount of
food donated per beneficiary and covers some 85,600 families since 1991.
This program is targeted to impoverished subsistence farming households
and provides, in addition to food and employment, technical assistance,
and cash remuneration equivalent to US$5 per day worked per person.
work in a specific community development project is the basic condition
of eligibility for this program across the country. Most of the food
distributed (80%) is provided by the WFP. Under a separate program,
USAID provides the balance through CARE. The GOH participates in
program administration and logistical support. Administrative costs
average more than 40% of total costs, raising the issue of program
sustainability over the longer-term.
(c) The Sui:plementarv Food for Women and Children program (PAC). The
PAC was started with USAID and WFP support in the 1980s and currently
covers approximately 173,000 women and children (61% are children aged
1-6 years, 37% are pregnant mothers, and 2% are volunteers who work in
the program). The program is operated practically nationwide (16 of 18
departments), covering women and young children exhibiting symptoms of
malnutrition. Food aid from USAID accounts for about 70% of the total
and an additional 30* is provided by the WFP. Food is distributed every
month at MOH health centers and hospitals and National Social Welfare
Board (Junta Nacional de Bienestar Social, JNBS) early childhood
centers. The weighted average of the monthly rations provide an
estimated 500 calories/day and 19 grams of proteins/day per beneficiary,
or approximately 25% of the daily minimum requirements. Rations vary
slightly in composition and quantity, by donor, but the typical ration
is uncooked and consists of cereal (corn and/or rice), beans, oil, and
milk. For the portion of the program financed by USAID, CARE is
responsible for procuring food, supervising transportation and storage
at the central level and providing management support to the MOH. The
NOH transports the food from the central storage facility to



12
distribution sites and MOH local staff package and distribute to the
beneficiaries. The estimated average administrative cost of the PAC
program is 30 of total program cost. The main issues affecting the
efficiency of this program are; (i) unreliable targeting; (ii)
difficult food distribution logistics; (iii) need for continued
technical assistance from the donor community; and (iv) excessive use of
local health staff time for program administration.
(d)   The PRAF food coupon programs.  The GOH established the PRAF in
March 1990. PRAF's operations began in May 1990 with a first pilot food
coupon program, directed towards poor primary school children of women
heads of households (Bono Mujer Jefe de Familia, BMJF), distributed
through the MOE primary school network in seven departments. By the end
of 1991 the BMJF benefitted about 120,000 school children, two times a
year, with food coupons equivalent to US$37 per year for each child with
a limit of three children per household. A second pilot food coupon
program targeted to low income children under five and pregnant and
nursing mothers (Bono Materno Infantil, BMI) was started in December
1990 with IDA support provided under the FHIS-I project. The BMI is
distributed through MOH health centers on a monthly basis. By the end
of 1991, the BMI covered 32 health centers in three departments,
providing about 56,000 beneficiaries with monthly coupons equivalent to
US$45 per year for each child and mother without limit per household.
PRAF food coupons expenditures in 1991 amounted to about US$6.0 million
equivalent. Administrative costs were estimated at 16', on average, for
both programs.7' More details on the PRAF food coupons as well as an
evaluation of these programs are provided in Chapter III. As discussed
in that chapter, the PRAF food coupon programs, whose expansion would be
supported under the proposed project, are a more cost-effective
instrument for nutrition assistance than the programs that distribute
food in-kind. The PRAF programs are not only more efficient in terms of
logistics, but also better targeted and more transparent, and they
provide complementary social services.
2.6. Insufficient Nutrition Education. Experience in developing countries
shows that despite the prevalence of food-insecure families, well developed
and operated nutrition education is effective to improve the nutritional
status of the most vulnerable groups. In general, Honduras' nutrition
programs have not sufficiently addressed such problems as delayed solid food
supplementation and dietary management of diarrhea. Two additional priority
areas requiring information are breast-feeding promotion (para. 2.4) and
weaning food preparation and feeding practices for children aged 6 to 36
months, a high risk period for diarrhea and other infectious diseases to
occur. These issues are addressed under the project's nutrition education
component (para. 4.4(d)).
7' The PRAF food coupon programs are reviewed in detail in the report Republic
of Honduras: Review of the PRAF Food Coupon Programs. World Bank, Report No.
10488-HO, dated May 12, 1992. See also Bitran, R.A. and Heinig, S.J., "Study
of the Effect on Health Services Utilization of the Maternal and Child Food
Coupon Program in Honduras." Report prepared for the World Bank by Abt
Associates, Inc., Cambridge, MA: July 13, 1992.



13
2.7.  Lack of a Coherent Nutritional Policy and Strateav.  While nutrition has
become an increasingly important component of poverty alleviation efforts in
Honduras, nutrition activities have often been viewed as discrete
interventions missing the synergistic benefits of a comprehensive approach and
overlooking sustainability issues. Most existing programs suffer from
inadequate coordination leading to overlapping of beneficiaries and poor
complementarity with the delivery of health and education services, deficient
targeting, high operational costs, and logistical bottlenecks. In addition,
no periodical evaluation of program outcomes has been undertaken, limiting the
GOH's capacity to decide on the best mix of nutrition interventions and their
financial viability. The GOH is increasingly interested in developing an
integrated approach to nutrition and recognizes the need to review the
adequacy of existing assistance to improve efficiency and ensure long-term
sustainability (Annex 18 and para. 2.15). These issues would be addressed
under the proposed project through the development of a national nutrition
policy and strategy establishing an integrated framework for nutrition
assistance over the long-term (para. 4.4(a)), including improved monitoring of
program outcomes (para. 4.9).
B.    Overview of the Health Sector and Issues
2.8. Structure of Health Services Provision. An estimated one-third of the
population has no access to basic health services. The MOH is the major
health services provider in the country, but covers only an estimated 60% of
the population. The Honduran Institute of Social Security (Instituto
Hondurezlo de Seguridad Social, IHSS) covers approximately 7% and the formal
private sector another 3% of the Honduran population. Additional health
services are provided by the JNBS, the Ministry of Labor's Occupational Health
Department, and the military. The extent of care provided by traditional
practice is unknown, but is believed to be significant considering that in
1991, more than half the mothers responding to the MOH Epidemiological Survey
had their most recent delivery at home. The MOH is responsible for developing
national health policy, establishing service norms, and planning, financing,
and controlling the health services delivery system. The national health
policy aims at extending coverage of basic health services to better serve the
poorest regions, targeting population groups at higher risk of morbidity and
mortality, emphasizing the reduction of preventable diseases and supporting
quality of service provision and sustainability through more efficient
management systems (Annex 18).
2.9. The NOH service system is composed of eight health regions and 36
administrative areas (Annex 5). During the 1986-1991 period, the MOH PHC
network was expanded by approximately 15% and the hospital network by 24%.
Services are delivered according to a hierarchical plan consisting of three
levels of attention:
(a)   The PHC service level, consisting of:  (i) community health
workers including an estimated 8,500 midwives and health guardians; (ii)
530 rural health centers (Centros de Salud Rural, CESARs) staffed by an
auxiliary nurse, a health promoter and, in some regions a malaria
control worker, providing immunization, treatment of common diseases and
preventive maternal-child services including monitoring of pregnancy and
child development; and (iii) 200 health centers with physician (Centros
de Salud con Medico, CESAMOs) staffed by a physician (usually a recent



14
graduate serving obligatory social service), a nurse, auxiliary nurses,
health promoters, a laboratory technician, administrative personnel, and
occasionally a dentist. The size, service structure, and number of
staff of the CESAMOs vary according to the location and the size of the
population served; they provide support to CESARs and a variety of
preventive and curative ambulatory services including maternal and child
care, health education, environmental sanitation, laboratory tests and
sometimes odontology;
(b)   The secondary health care service level consists of:  (i) 12 area
hospitals, normally with 50 beds each; (ii) seven regional hospitals of
various bed capacities; and (iii) three maternal and children's clinics.
These area and regional hospitals offer services in general surgery,
internal medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology; and
(c)   The tertiarv health care service level comprises seven national
referral hospitals, including one maternal and children's hospital, a
pulmonary disease hospital, two psychiatric facilities, and three
general hospitals.
2.10. While the development of the public health system and expansion of water
and sanitation and education services have been the main factors contributing
to the health status improvements of the past two decades, the performance of
the health system remains mixed. Despite the relatively high level of public
funding allocated to the health sector (para. 2.13), much remains to be done
to reduce the high level of mortality and morbidity due to endemic infectious
diseases and childbearing through proper use of PHC services. The major
issues facing the health sector are: (i) low coverage and poor quality of PHC
services; (ii) poor maintenance and lack of equipment and supplies; (iii)
inefficient management of resources at the MOH; and (iv) rapid progression of
HIV infection and AIDS.
2.11. Low Coverage and Poor Oualitv of PHC Services is due to the combined
effect of lack of access and poor quality of the services delivered, the
latter leading to the under-utilization of existing facilities.
(a)   The lack of access results from an insufficient number of PHC
facilities, less than optimal location of some of these facilities, and
inefficient outreach. Location decisions have traditionally favored
urban areas. The average distance from villages to the health centers
in the poorest rural regions is about ten km, compared to less than two
km in metropolitan areas. Inadequate outreach by health staff means
that coverage is not extended to the smaller and more isolated villages.
Lack of access to PHC services is compounded by very low water supply
and sanitation service levels (para 1.6), particularly in the rural
areas, where 52% of families lack water supply and 58% lack adequate
sanitary facilities. In areas where water systems exist, the quality of
the water is poor, as pollution is contaminating an alarming 75% of the
drinking water supply. As a result, waterborne diseases and
particularly diarrheal diseases remain the first cause of morbidity
among children in Honduras. The recent cholera epidemic, although
controlled through an intensive campaign by the MOH, remains a serious
threat. These problems would be addressed under the proposed project
through: (i) the rehabilitation and limited expansion of the PHC



i5
network in underserved rural areas; (ii) the provision and maintenance
of safe water supplies and excreta disposal in underserved rural
communities; and (iii) the development of priority criteria for
selecting the location of new facilities (paras. 4.6(a) and 4.7(a)).
(b)   The poor aualitv of services leads directly to under-utilization
of existing facilities. This has been confirmed by a survey of
beneficiaries which showed that the main reason for the under-
utilization of health centers was the poor quality of services,
including the manner in which the poor are received and treated, the
long waiting times and the shortage of drugs. The under-utilization of
PHC facilities is reflected in the increased demand for health services
generated in the districts where the BMI food coupon was introduced:
the number of preventive care consultations increased, on average, by
1311 in participating facilities. Several factors contribute to the low
quality of PHC services:
(i) Inefficient service delivery results from the lack of an
integrated health care model at MOH health centers. Although the
MOH has developed all the necessary PHC service norms for priority
subprograms, it has not emphasized the need to integrate program
activities at the level of the health centers. As a result,
service provision is fragmented according to program activities,
causing users to receive less than the necessary care or make
several visits in order to benefit from all the PHC programs;
(ii) Insufficient PHC staff and inadeauate mix of staff are the
next most important reasons for poor quality of service delivered.
An estimated 191 of the MDH PHC facilities are closed for extended
periods due to inefficient staff allocation. The CESARs are
normally staffed by only one staff: an auxiliary nurse who
performs administrative, training, and outreach activities besides
PHC services. As the average size of the catchment area served by
a CESAR is twice as large as the maximum 1,500 population that can
be effectively served by one auxiliary nurse, a minimum of two
auxiliary nurses per CESAR is necessary to provide adequate PHC
service coverage in most locations. In addition, the rotation of
temporary personnel is inefficiently managed, often leaving vacant
critical staff positions, such as the physician serving the
CESAMOs;
(iii) Inadeauate staff training. The MOH in-service training
programs offer approximately six weeks of training per year to
professional nurses, five weeks of training per year to auxiliary
nurses, and only occasional training for other categories of staff
or community health volunteers. The current in-service training
program is less than efficient because the contents of the
training, which are designed centrally, do not properly respond to
the specific health problems of each region; there is inadequate
integration between training modules; programs are poorly
scheduled causing facilities to be closed for extended periods of
time due to absence of staff on training; and, as training is
offered primarily to MOH staff, the potential of using community
health volunteers to extend service coverage is lost;



16
(iv) Less than efficient suoervision. The actual practice of PHC
services provision is seldom supervised at the level of health
centers. MOH supervision guides are well developed but are
normally applied in a centralized manner, giving little emphasis
to on-site supervision, a pattern that weakens the link between
in-service training and practice; and
(v)   The inefficient referral system hampers the quality of
services delivered at PHC centers. The linkage that should exist
between CESARs and CESAMOs and between these and the area
hospitals to ensure prompt and appropriate attendance to patients
requiring higher level care is often broken due to lack of means
of communication and of periodical on-site supervision. The
isolation of most CESARs is a disincentive for the population to
use this level of service.
These issues would be addressed under the project by: (i) fostering the
organization of PHC services in an integrated model through training of
staff at all levels and strengthening service supervision (para.
4.6(b)); (ii) establishing a revised staffing plan and providing for
additional staff to be allocated to PHC services (para. 4.6(b)); (iii)
supporting a study on hospital referrals by the Master's Program of the
School of Public Health; and (iv) supporting community outreach and
participation, including training of outreach workers and volunteers in
the areas of environmental sanitation and nutrition education (paras.
4.4(d) and 4.7(a)).
2.12. Poor Maintenance and Lack of Eauioment and Supplies at PHC facilities
further constrain service quality and access. Nationwide, over 100 PHC
facilities (14% of the network) have been found to be in a state of physical
deterioration, many of them without running water or sanitary facilities. A
third of the facilities currently lack adequate refrigeration and 22% are in
need of other basic equipment such as scales. Laboratory equipment has been
improved with donor assistance in 65% of the CESAMOs where most laboratories
are located, but there are serious deficiencies in laboratory supplies.
Minimal communication networks need to be installed to improve referrals.
Deferred maintenance of PHC facilities is due to: (i) lack of community
involvement resulting from a centralized MDH maintenance system for equipment
and vehicles that curtails local initiative; and (ii) inadequate MOH budgetary
allocation for maintenance. To raise the physical plant and equipment of PHC
facilities to minimum standards, a necessary element for service quality
improvement, the proposed project would emphasize rehabilitation of existing
health centers, replacement of basic equipment and in addition, establish a
maintenance schedule and fund, managed at the local level with community
participation (para. 4.6(a)).
2.13. Inefficient Management of Resources at MOH. Management improvements in
the allocation of resources by the MOH are particularly needed in the areas
of: (a) planning and budgeting health expenditures; (b) cost-recovery; (c)
personnel management; and (d) drug supplies.  The main issues facing the MOH
management in these areas are the following:
(a)   Unbalanced Health Exxenditures.  Despite sharp cuts in overall
Government spending, health expenditures by the MOH have been sustained



17
at approximately 7% of total public sector expenditures in 1991 and 1992
and are projected to increase in real terms in 1993 to 8% of total
government spending. The expenditure trend is positive and compares
well with other countries with similar per capita income.v In
addition, total sector financing has benefitted from increased external
assistance, which reached nearly one-third of total public spending in
health in 1990. Although the share of hospital expenditures has been
declining slightly, from 48% in 1991 to an estimated 47% in 1992 and to
a projected 46% in 1993, they still represent a high proportion of the
MOH budget and show a strong curative care bias. At the same time,
despite announced strong support for PHC from MOH (para. 1.9), PHC
expenditures have remained at about one-third of the health budget in
recent years, suggesting the need for budgetary increases to match
primary health services priorities. The MOH is now in the position to
correct its budgetary imbalances. That would require increasing
hospital efficiency and cost-recovery in order to finance the expansion
in PHC expenditures. In addition, the MOH needs to analyze its
operating expenditures, aiming at more cost-effective performance.
Recurrent costs, including salaries, account for an estimated 88% of the
MOH expenditures. Of these recurrent costs, 53% consist of salaries,
17% of drugs and medical supplies, and 30% of other operating expenses.
The proposed project would support the MDH efforts towards more
efficient management of budgetary resources through strengthening the
MOH planning department, assisting in the annual review of sector
expenditures and budget (para. 4.6(b)), supporting the reform of the
current cost-recovery system and its expansion system-wide (para.
4.9(c)), and improving drugs procurement practices (para 4.6(c)).
(b)   Insufficient Cost-Recoverv.  The NOH started a pilot cost-recovery
program in 1989 through user fees charged for curative services at
hospitals and PHC facilities. The goal of the program is to recover 25%
of the operating costs excluding salaries, i.e., almost 12% of total
operating costs. AB an incentive for hospitals, 90% of funds recovered
from user-fees are allowed to be retained at the facility level while
10% is forwarded to the MCH regional office. These cost-recovery
measures have already produced positive results. Local retention
percentages for PHC facilities are slightly lower than for hospitals.'
In 1991, L6.9 million or 2.2% of total MOH recurrent expenditures were
recovered, primarily by hospitals (the amount recovered by PHC
facilities accounted for 25% of the total recovered). User fees
recovered represented approximately 6% of recurrent expenditures,
excluding salaries. Funds were used locally to purchase supplies and
drugs, fuel, food, and to cover building maintenance. In support of the
program, the MOH has developed a comprehensive computerized system of
reporting user fees and revenues use, which represents an important
Y For example, in Bolivia, where GDP per capita at US$630 in 1990 is about
10% above the Honduran level, health expenditures represented only 2.3% of
total Central Government expenditures in 1990. World Bank, World Develonment
Report. 1992. Comparable data for Haiti are unfortunately not available.
F In accordance with Government Agreement No. 0232 of February 1990, which
was part of the USAID-sponsored Health Sector II Project. The PHC facilities
are allowed to retain only 75% of the funds collected and must remit 25% to
the regional MOH office.



18
asset for further development of the system. Improvements are still
needed in the areas of: (i) cost-recovery incentives tailored to PHC
facilities, where preventive health services should be emphasized over
curative services; (ii) cost-recovery agreements between MOH and IHSS
for shared services; (iii) differential fees for privately insured
patients; and (iv) an action plan to improve fees collection. The
proposed project would address these issues through a detailed review of
the cost-recovery situation and the development of an action plan aimed
at improving and expanding the MOH cost-recovery system (para. 4.9(c)).
(c)   Less Than Efficient Personnel ManaQement.  As a result of the
budgetary imbalance and inadequate planning, management of health sector
personnel is very deficient, especially with regard to: (i) the
allocation by service level and geographic region; and (ii) the mix and
level of skills. The MOH currently employs one professional nurse for
every two physicians and the ratio of one professional nurse to seven
auxiliary nurses is grossly inadequate to ensure appropriate care and
supervision. The great majority of physicians serves the metropolitan
areas while rural areas lack all categories of health staff. Although
the MOH has started a training program to double the supply of nurses
and other health technicians, it would not be sufficient and would still
leave severe shortages for these categories of personnel. The proposed
project would address these issues by strengthening the human resources
department of the MOH in charge of personnel planning and training, and
by allocating additional staff to underserved rural areas (para.
4.6(b)).
(d)   Scarcity of Drugs and Medical Supplies.  PHC facilities suffer
from chronic shortages of medicines and other consumable items needed in
the performance of their functions. These shortages are a major
complaint of the population and one of the first reasons cited for not
using PHC facilities and giving preference to hospital services (para.
2.11(b)). Although with assistance from USAID improvements have been
made in the MOH capacity to store, distribute and inventory drugs, at
the local, regional, and central levels, serious inefficiencies still
exist. The major factors that account for the scarcity of drugs
include:
(i)   Inefficient procurement procedures that do not guarantee
least-cost treatment protocols, delivery schedules that minimize
length of storage, quality control, appropriate bidding packages,
or timely supply of drugs. As a result, the 171 of the MOH budget
spent on drugs buys approximately 30% to 40t less than would be
the case if appropriate procurement procedures were used;
(ii) Inadeauate budQetary allocation for drugs to be distributed
to PHC facilities representing approximately one-half of the
minimum requirements. Local drug requirements are determined
through a comprehensive inventory control system, established by
the MOH with assistance from USAID, which fairly accurately
estimates the yearly demand. For 1992, the gap between projected
demand and budgetary allocations was estimated at 42%; and



19
(iii) Low incentives for distribution of aeneric drugs throuah the
private sector. The drugs offered through private sector
pharmacies are predominantly brand names sold at relatively high
prices. The small share of generic drugs in the private retail
market is partly due to GOH regulations that provide little
incentive for the marketing of generic drugs. In addition, the
industry would need to improve its procurement, quality control
and marketing strategies in order to significantly increase the
share of generic drugs in the market and lower the average retail
prices for essential drugs.
The proposed project would increase the supply of drugs to PHC
facilities and improve efficiency of procurement procedures for drugs
and medical supplies at the MOH. In addition, during the first year of
project implementation, a study of the private sector drug market would
be carried out to explore the potential marketing of generic drugs
through private pharmacies nationwide (para. 4.6(c)).
2.14. Rapid Progression of HIV Infection and AIDS. Recent data collected in
Honduras point to a pattern of explosive epidemic in the spread of the HIV
virus and AIDS, similar to the early patterns observed in some African
countries that are severely affected by the economic, social, and health
consequences of the disease. Population-based HIV prevalence and AIDS
incidence rates in 1991 have progressed to levels that are among the highest
in Latin America: notified cases translate into a prevalence rate of 12.4 per
100,000 inhabitants which is higher than the level reported in the U.S.A.
(11.3 per 100,000). Data point to a very efficient heterosexual transmission
pattern among high risk groups which is beginning to affect low risk groups.
A contributing factor to the extent and efficiency of HIV transmission is the
widespread presence of largely untreated sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
Experience in other developing countries has shown that a failure to address
this public health threat carries the risk of permitting, over a period of a
few years, the disease to grow to epidemic proportions. To strengthen its
current AIDS control program, the MOH is preparing, with assistance from the
Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) and the World Health Organization
(WHO), a Medium-term AIDS Control Program for the 1993-95 period, specifying
the full range of control, prevention and treatment activities required to
curb the spread of HIV infection and AIDS, at an estimated cost of US$5.0
million. This program would be presented by the GOH to the donor community in
Tegucigalpa in December 1992. The proposed project would support about 40% of
the program activities (para. 4.6(d)), approximately matching the government's
contribution, and prospects of mobilizing the required additional assistance
from grant sources, particularly from USAID and the Global Program on AIDS
(GPA) are good. Complementing AIDS and STDs control activities, the project
would support this program through: (i) incorporating into the protocols for
prenatal care provisions for systematic detection and treatment of STDs that
are a risk factor for HIV infection; (ii) ensuring that nutrition education
contain modules directed to mothers infected with the HIV; and (iii)
monitoring the implementation of the Medium-term AIDS Control Program (para.
4.6(d)).



20
C.    Sector Obiectives and Strateav
2.15. Obiectives. The GOH objectives for the health and nutrition sectors
(Annex 18) are to reduce malnutrition, mortality, morbidity levels and
developing human resources capacity in general. The GOH strategy for the
health and nutrition sector focuses on: (a) improving the nutrition status of
the Honduran population by rationalizing and expanding nutrition assistance
programs; (b) strengthening PHC services by improving the quality of services
delivered, especially the mother and child PHC services, by extending the PHC
network and related water and sanitation infrastructure, and by extending the
coverage of the food coupon programs to attract vulnerable groups to use MOH
facilities; (c) launching an AIDS control program; (d) increasing the
efficiency of referral systems and specialized medical care; and (e)
strengthening MOH's planning, budgeting, and evaluation capacity.
2.16. ImDroving the Nutrition Status of the Population. In October 1992, in
support of the GOH nutrition policy objective of significantly reducing the
incidence of malnutrition in Honduras, Congress has extended the legal life of
the PRAF indefinitely. The programmed expansion of coverage of the PRAF food
coupon programs will be targeted to the poorest and most vulnerable women and
children, through the MOH and the MOE primary services network. In addition,
complementary nutrition education programs at health care facilities and local
communities will be carried out, and all existing nutrition assistance
programs will be better coordinated and adjusted to increase their efficiency
in addressing long-term nutrition assistance needs nationwide.
2.17. Strengthening PHC Services. For the period 1993-97, the MOH seeks to
improve the quality of basic health services delivered by: (i) better
defining the package of services to be offered, including renewed emphasis on
family planning education and birth spacing, and better organizing health
facility activities; (ii) providing in-service training and strengthening
medical supervision in the skills needed for delivering PHC services
efficiently and courteously; (iii) deploying a majority of newly trained
paramedical personnel to PHC facilities; (iv) ensuring a more adequate supply
of medicines, supplies and other essential inputs, commensurate with the
proper operations of PHC facilities; and (v) rehabilitating and re-equipping
existing PHC facilities to the minimum standards required for efficient
delivery of the services expected of them. In addition, the MOH seeks to
extend the coverage of the PHC system by constructing, equipping, staffing,
and operating additional facilities in undeserved areas and constructing
simple water supply and sanitation works with community support. Demand for
primary health services by the most vulnerable groups of women and young
children is expected to increase significantly in response to the expansion of
the BMI food coupon program, thus ensuring high utilization of the improved
PHC services provided by the MOH.
2.18. Launching an AIDS Control Program. To contain the risk of a full blown
AIDS epidemic, the MOH intends to present to the international donor community
an integrated AIDS program focussing on HIV/AIDS monitoring and prevention
measures (para. 2.14). As part of this program, efforts will be made to
detect and treat other STDs that constitute a major cofactor in the
transmission rates of the HIV. Prevention measures would be expanded through:
(i) community level education, mass communication and peer support; (ii) PHC



21
services in the context of prenatal care and control of STDs; and (iii) at the
hospitals.
2.19. Increasing efficiency of referral and specialized medical care without
increasing the level of public resources allocated to hospitals would be
sought by the MOH through: (i) focusing hospital activities and resources on
referral and specialized services and assigning to ambulatory and PHC
facilities the simpler tasks of providing basic and preventive health care
services; (ii) requiring all hospitals to meet the appropriate accreditation
standards by 1994; (iii) granting hospitals increased financial autonomy and
accountability; and (iv) generalizing cost-recovery at an affordable level.
These programs are already underway. Their financial impact would be
monitored in the context of redressing the intra-sectoral allocation of
resources.
2.20. Strengthening MOH's planning, budqeting and evaluation capacity by:  (i)
assigning additional staff to the Planning Department and the Human Resources
Division; (ii) improving resource allocation by carrying out systematic
expenditure reviews and installing more efficient management information
systems; (iii) evaluating the ongoing cost-recovery programs and preparing
action plans for generalizing cost-recovery; (iv) strengthening the analytical
capability of the planning department to evaluate policy and program impact
using sample surveys and performance indicators; and (v) promoting greater
participation of the private sector and NGOs in the provision of health and
pharmaceutical services.
2.21. ImDroving coordination among social sector agencies and programs  The
SCES was created in 1991, through Executive Agreement No. 841, with the basic
objective of providing technical assistance to the Social Cabinet on human
resources development. The SCES has two major functions which help the
Government implement its social sector policy reforms: (i) it helps
coordinate the Government's social sector policies and programs undertaken by
various line ministries and agencies; and (ii) it monitors the achievements of
the Government's targets for the social sectors, analyzes the effectiveness of
social programs and provides feedback to the Social Cabinet. The Executive
Secretary, who heads the SCES, is appointed by the President (Agreement No.
1708 of August 1991) and supervises a high-quality staff of six professionals,
including an economist, lawyer, demographer, educator, public health
specialist and financial analyst. Funding for the SCES has been provided by
the Japanese Grant Facility, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
and UNICEF and, starting in FY93, budgetary support from the Office of the
Presidency. Additional support to strengthen the SCES's institutional
capacity would be provided under the proposed project (para. 4.9).
2.22. Improving coordination of water supolv and sanitation nrograms. Water
supply and sanitation services, which directly impacts upon the health status
of the population, also need improvements in coordination. Since the approval
of the Health Code (Congressional Decree No. 65-91 of May, 1991) the GOH has
taken a positive step towards promoting environmental health and, at the same
time preserving natural resources. The code covers environmental sanitation
dealing with water sources, storm runoff, sewage and excreta disposal, air
contamination, solid wastes and housing. An MOH commission is presently
working in the by-laws and on the procedures that would be used to enforce the
Code. The sector institutions responsible for water supply and sanitation



22
services include the National Water and Sewerage Service Company (SANAA), the
MOH through its Environmental Sanitation Division, and the Municipalities and
the National Environmental Commission (CONAMA). Although the MOH is the
agency with overall responsibility for setting the policies and operating
norms for water supply and sanitation, the sector still lacks overall
coordination and, sometimes, agencies exercise overlapping activities. The
GOH recognizes the need to restructure the water supply and sanitation sector
and to further promote its institutional development. To this end, the GOH
plans to undertake a study in 1993 to analyze the main sector issues and to
recommend appropriate solutions, taking into account the new municipal law.
IDA intends to assist the GOH in its effort to promote improvements in service
delivery and sector management through technical assistance to be provided
under a technical assistance sector operation planned for FY93. The
environmental health component under the proposed project, although in very
small scale, addreeses the key issue of sector decentralization through local
operation and maintenance of the systems built (para. 4.9 and Annexes 16 and
19).
2.23. StrenQthening monitoring and evaluation caoacitv.  To permit systematic
evaluation of the effectiveness of social spending by the public sector, the
GOH has expanded its regular data collection program through the creation of
special module to monitor the impact of its social programs on the welfare of
the Honduran population. Specifically, the multiple purposes household survey
has been expanded to incorporate a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS),
including key social variables and consumption patterns in addition to basic
demographic, employment and income information, under the leadership of the
Planning Ministry (SBCPLAN). This LSMS was introduced as a component under
the FHIS-I project with support from IDA.  Improvements to the LSMS are now
being planned and would be completed by early 1993. In parallel, the SCES is
focusing on analyzing available social indicators data and on sharpening the
technical specification of indicators to measure performance of specific
programs. These initiatives would be supported under the proposed project
(para. 4.9 and Annex 6).
2.24. Fosterina Donor Coordination. The donor community has actively
supported the GOH health and nutrition programs for several decades. The
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has focused on expansion of PHC and
hospital infrastructure, is presently financing the water supply and
sanitation program of SANAA in urban and rural areas, and will further assist
in the provision of social infrastructure through financing of the FHIS-II
project. USAID is currently providing technical and financial assistance to
the MOH and SANAA to support, strengthen and continue the process of extending
coverage of efficient, sustainable and effective PHC and rural water and
sanitation services with an emphasis on child survival through its Health
Sector II project. As part of its health assistance program, USAID also
supports the design and implementation of periodic health and nutrition
surveys. In addition, USAID, WFP and BBC provide food in-kind for targeted
nutrition assistance programs (para. 2.15). The BEC is also currently
financing an extensive program of expansion of rural water supply and
sanitation. A MOH hospital infrastructure and equipment project financed by
the Government of Japan was recently completed and continued assistance from
Japan is being provided for training programs for paramedical staff.
Donations from the Government of Spain have enabled the MOH to replace medical
equipment in older hospital facilities. United Nations (UN) agencies



23
including UNICEF, PAHO, WHO, and UNDP have continued to provide technical
assistance to the MOH in the areas of policy planning and program development,
training, computer systems, and epidemiological information systems. IDA's
involvement through the proposed project would contribute to promote donor
coordination in the nutrition and health sectors, especially by: (i)
assisting the GOH in securing donor participation for the formulation and
implementation of a long-term national nutrition assistance policy (para.
4.4(a)); (ii) attracting additional donor assistance for further support of
the PRAF food coupon programs (para. 4.4(b)); and (iii) assisting the GOH in
mobilizing additional resources to control the AIDS epidemic (paras. 2.14 and
4.6(b)). In parallel to the project, IDA would collaborate with the donor
community in assisting the GOH's efforts to better coordinate water supply and
sanitation sector investments and improve sector organization through a
comprehensive sector study scheduled to commence in 1993 (Annex 18).
III. LESSONS FROM THE PRAF PILOT FOOD COUPON PROGRAMS
A.    Overview of the Programs
3.1.  The principal objectives of the PRAF food coupon programs are threefold:
(i) to transfer income to low-income families most vulnerable to contractions
in income; (ii) to reduce the incidence of malnutrition among young children,
which has been increasing among children under five (para. 2.1); and (iii) to
promote efficient use of public social services and expenditures, in
particular, the services provided by health centers and primary schools. In
1991, the average number of MOH consultations was 0.6 per capita per annum,
which is 601 below the applicable international norm. Furthermore, between
1982 and 1991, the growth rate for check-ups received by children under age
one was below population growth, indicating a declining number of
consultations per infant. Similarly, primary education left much room for
improvement in both quantitative and qualitative terms:  while primary school
enrollments are high, outcomes are inadequate due to high dropout and
repetition rates (para. 1.8).
3.2. PRAF was created on August 7, 1990, through Presidential Decree No.
1208-A and ratified by Congressional Decree 127-91 published on November 22,
1991. That law was amended by Congressional Decree No. 135-92 published on
November 14, 1992, extending PRAF's legal life indefinitely. PRAP is
constituted as a decentralized entity of the Presidency, with administrative,
technical and financial autonomy to carry out the food coupon programs and
women's training programs designed to assist the mother of children who
benefit from the food coupon programs in generating income and being capable,
through their own efforts, to have their children phased-out of the program.
PRAF is headed by an Executive Director, appointed by the President, who is
also a member of the Cabinet and responds directly to the President of the
Republic. The current incumbent has had previous Cabinet position experience,
having been Vice-Minister of Transport in the 1970s. He has been in his
current position since the creation of the PRAF in 1990 and is a well
respected personality in the country. PRAF's organization chart is presented
in Annex 11. PRAF's permanent staff consists of 60 professional and technical
personnel, most of them occupied in administering the food coupon programs. A
management audit was undertaken by USAID in August 1991. The main
recommendations, which have been implemented, were that PRAF improve: (i) its



24
accounting procedures; and (ii) its computerized management information
systems. PRAF's managerial capacity will be strengthened in monitoring and
evaluation and financial management (para. 3.6 and Annex 9). An experienced
management information system (MIS) director was appointed in mid-1992 and is
in the process of installing an appropriate MIS. Technical assistance will be
provided under the project to strengthen the MIS (para. 4.4(c)). PRAF's
financial management receives strong support from the Central Bank of Honduras
(CBH). Under the project it will be further strengthened through technical
assistance (para. 4.4(c)). The CBH retains the financial control of coupon
emission and redemption while leaving to PRAF the administration of the coupon
distribution through the banking system and local MOH and MOE personnel, as
explained below (para. 3.3).
3.3. The logistics of the PRAF food coupon programs work as follows. PRAF
prepares annual projections of BMJF and BMI coupons, in collaboration with the
MOB and MOH, and presents these projections to the CBH. The CBH requests from
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) the corresponding budget allocation to the PRAF
special account and issues the coupons on security paper in L20 denominations
with an expiration date of four months from issue date. This prevents coupons
from remaining in the system as another monetary unit and ensures expenditure
of the budget allocation. PRAF distributes the coupons through selected
banking institutions with branches in the distribution area. Local staff from
the MOE and MOH, supervised by PRAF, take the coupons from the banks to
participating schools and health centers, where security boxes are provided to
keep the coupons until distribution. Distribution occurs twice per year at
primary schools and monthly at health centers. Beneficiaries use the coupons
to buy food and other essential items at local retail stores. Retailers cash
the coupons at local banks which, in turn, redeem them at the CBH. The CBH
returns the voided coupons to PRAF with a statement of accounts.
3.4. Under the BMI (para. 2.5(d)) health centers' participation in the pilot
program was based on: (i) poverty criteria; and (ii) geographic proximity to
Tegucigalpa, to facilitate monitoring during the pilot phase. In December
1991, the BMI benefitted an estimated 13V of poor children under five and
pregnant and nursing women at risk of malnutrition, financing about 201 of the
value of their minimum food requirements. In collaboration with the PRAF,
which has been responsible for the financial administration and evaluation of
the program, the MOH has helped to define where the program would operate and
its eligibility criteria. The pilot BMI program covered three low-income
districts in Tegucigalpa, 11 municipalities in the department of Valle, and
two municipalities in the department of Copan. In 1991, the total annual cost
of the program per beneficiary was US$55, of which 23* represented PRAF's
administrative costs. Economies of scale accruing during the programmed
expansion of the BMI under the proposed project are expected to reduce the
share of administrative costs to approximately 6* of the value of the subsidy
(Annex 10).
3.5. In the BMJF program (para. 2.5(d)), local level MOE staff selected the
beneficiaries based on a teachers' survey of their students' family income,
family size, and parents' civil status. In December 1991, the BMJF benefitted
about 561 of the children in grades one through three at risk of malnutrition,
financing about 171 of the value of their minimum food requirements. PRAF has
been responsible for the financial administration and evaluation of the BMJF
program. Currently, the program covers 3,100 schools in seven of the 18



25
departments (Copan, Cortes, Choluteca, Francisco Morazan, Intibuca, Lempira,
and Valle). In 1991, the total annual cost of program per beneficiary was
US$43, of which 16% represented PRAF's administrative costs.
B.    Evaluation Findings and Lessons Learned
3.6. An evaluation undertaken under the FHIS-I project showed that the BMI is
well-targeted and has had a positive impact on the income of families with
pregnant and nursing women and children under five. In 1991, it transferred
food coupons equivalent to US$1.4 million to low-income families. The program
has led to increased use of health facilities and to a shift in the demand for
health services towards preventive services, which are cost-effective and
poverty oriented. The number of MOH consultations rose by 131* in
participating facilities in 1991, compared to the same period in 1990 (Annex
8, Table 1). The BMJF is also well-targeted and has had a highly positive
impact on income levels, and in 1991 transferred an estimated US$4.6 million
equivalent food coupons to poor families. Thanks to its eligibility criteria,
the program has had a malor imDact on primary school enrollments. In 1991,
enrollments rates rose on average by about 12% in the participating
departments, compared to a historic annual increase of 3%. Primary education
performance has also improved in participating departments: in 1991, dropout
rates declined on average by 1.3% to an average of 11.8, and repetition rates
declined on average by 0.4% to an average of 3.2% compared to the previous
year, whereas they remained at substantially the same levels elsewhere (Annex
8, Table 2). The targeting experience under the pilot program was used to
determine the targeting criteria under the project (para. 4.4(b)). In
particular, PRAF will apply simpler and standardized eligibility criteria and
will improve the reliability of its targeting of the BMJF by using
malnutrition rates rather than means assessment.
3.7.  Initial apprehension that the food coupon programs might have a negative
impact on inflation have been shown to be unfounded, as the size of the
programs have been very small compared to the relevant national aggregates.
3.8. Similarly, the fear that the BMI might have a negative impact on family
planning acceptance among poor rural women has proven to be inaccurate. In
fact, the latest MOH epidemiological survey, conducted in 1991, shows
declining fertility rates in rural areas including those covered by the BMI
food coupon program.
3.9. However, the evaluation also found that both orograms still face some
imolementation issues. While PRAF has already incorporated into its
Operational Manual improvements to coupon distribution methods, it still needs
to improve eligibility criteria and, in the case of the BMJF, the frequency of
coupon distributions (para. 4.4(b)). There are also weaknesses in
administrative capacity, especially monitoring and evaluation. In addition,
the improved coverage rates in basic health and education service utilization
call for complementary actions to be taken by the MOH and MOE to improve the
quality of services offered as part of the GOH's social safety net. Under the
proposed project, PRAF would improve the logistics for coupon distribution and
its administrative procedures, including more frequent auditing, additional
technical staff, and the information system (para. 4.4(c)).



26
3.10. As to the advantages and disadvantages of the channels used by PRAF for
coupon distribution, the evaluation indicates that there should be a larger
expansion of the BMI than of the BMJF, given the health benefit accruing from
nutrition assistance provided to unborn and very young children who can be
reached before exposure to malnutrition might have caused permanent damage.
The BMJF, on the other hand, has had major impact on education through
increased enrollment and additional education efficiency benefits are
expected. Moreover, the MOE primary education network is wider in its
coverage than the primary health network, and allows to cover a large
proportion of the most vulnerable groups. Accordingly, under the proposed
project, preference would be given to the expansion of the BMI (para. 4.4(b)),
but the BMJF would remain a major channel for the PRAF.
3.11. In addition, the evaluation verified that the food coupon orograms are
less costly to administer than nutrition assistance orograms that distribute
food in-kind (para. 2.5). The much simpler logistics of coupon distribution
through the banking system and its easy redemption through the food retail and
banking networks make for much lower operating costs as a percentage of the
subsidy provided than those incurred in operating food distribution in-kind.
The latter requires intensive supervision for procuring and transporting
commodities, packaging and distributing food rations, controlling for theft
and food quality, and covering insurance on theft and spoilage. Also, the
risk of food spoilage and contamination at centers where food is stored is
rather large in view of the poor state of repair of most facilities. A
preliminary estimate of the financial impact of monetizing food in-kind
nutrition assistance programs and replacing them with the food coupon program
indicates that as much as US$3.2 million could be saved each year in
administrative costs.
3.12. The above comparison between the PRAF and other nutrition assistance
programs has shown that soecific programs should be part of a comorehensive
nutrition strateav, based on an evaluation of the sustainability and relative
efficiency of existing programs, an analysis of the effects and longer-term
impact of nutrition assistance and income generation activities, and a
rationalization of different types of nutrition interventions to form a
comprehensive strategy suitable for promoting efficient and technically and
financially sustainable improvements in the nutritional status of the Honduran
population (para. 4.4(a)).
3.13. The widespread acceptance of the oroarams by beneficiaries, implementing
agencies, participating retailers, and banks is a clear indication that they
have reached their primary objective of providing an efficient safety net for
vulnerable groups that were affected by some of the economic adjustment
measures. The benefits of the coupon programs have led donors to consider
monetizing existing in-kind food aid programs am they reach their completion,
particularly since the food coupon programs have not had inflationary effects.
As a result, the project would have a significant involvement from other
donors who would finance 31% of the total cost of the proposed project (paras.
4.13 and 4.17).
3.14. The PRAF pilot BMI program has shown the need to strengthen PHC
services, especially of maternal and child health services, including family
planning, to meet the increased demand for primary health services which has
been generated by the food coupons distribution. This would be addressed



27
under the proposed project, which would help the MOH: (i) rehabilitate and
expand PHC facilities including basic equipment and referral capacity (para.
4.6(a)); (ii) expand the provision of potable water and basic sanitation
(para. 4.7(a)); (iii) allocate additional staff for preventive PHC services at
the regional and local levels (para. 4.6(b)); (iv) strengthen technical
personnel in key central functions (para 4.6(b)); (v) carry out in-service
staff training programs (para. 4.6(b)); (vi) improve staff supervision (para.
4.6(b)); (vii) improve organization of health services and coupon distribution
at participating health centers (paras. 4.6(a) and 4.6(b)); and (viii) ensure
the supply of essential drugs and supplies at PHC facilities (para. 4.6(c)).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Origin of the Proiect
4.1. The proposed project originates from: (i) the successful implementation
of the PRAF pilot food coupon programs, started by the GOH in 1990 and
supported by IDA as part of the FHIS-I project to prevent increases in
malnutrition and deterioration of health status of the population during the
economic adjustment period; and (ii) the urgent need recognized by the GOH and
IDA, through the implementation of the BMI pilot food coupon program, to
improve delivery of PHC services.
B.    Obiectives
4.2. The proposed project would help achieve the following objectives: (a)
protect groups particularly vulnerable to the economic adjustment process by
channeling nutrition assistance to improve the nutrition status of children
and pregnant and nursing women among the poorest segments of the population;
(b) support the development and implementation of a longer-term nutrition
assistance strategy for Honduras; (c) reduce maternal, child and infant
mortality and morbidity rates by improving access to basic health services and
safe water supply and sanitation, by improving the quality of services
provided by the MOH, and by supporting health, nutrition, and family planning
education activities; (d) strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOH,
the PRAF and the SCES for sector planning, program formulation, monitoring,
evaluation, and improve efficiency in the procurement of drugs; and (e)
control the spread of AIDS.
C.    Description
4.3. The project would have four components:
(a)   Exoandina Nutrition Assistance and Develodina a Longer-term
Nutrition Policy (US$32.2 million equivalent to 59% of total project
cost) through: (i) formulation and implementation of a longer-term
nutrition policy (0.2%); (ii) expansion of food supplements through the
PRAF food coupon programs to about 255,000 poor, pregnant and nursing
women, children under five, and primary school children in the 13
departments with the highest malnutrition rates (55W); (iii) technical
assistance to strengthen PRAF's institutional capacity to administer the
program in the project area (2%); (iv) nutrition education for health
staff, community workers and mothers focusing on breast-feeding, weaning



28
and early childhood feeding practices (2t); and (v) annual nutrition
censuses at public primary schools (1i);
(b)   Strengthening the Delivery of Basic Health Services (US$16.7
million equivalent to 31% of total project cost) including: (i)
rehabilitation of about 130 health care centers and construction of an
estimated 30 additional health centers in priority rural areas where
services are currently not available (7'); (ii) improvement of MOH
institutional capacity through additional staff, staff training and
supervision and institutional support to the project unit of the MOH
(6W); (iii) incremental costs of drugs for the PHC network and technical
assistance to improve the efficiency of pharmaceutical procurement
(13%); and (iv) support of the formulation and implementation of a
medium-term national AIDS control program (4W);
(c)   Improving Environmental Health (US$4.1 million equivalent to 7W of
total project cost) through provision of: (i) rural water supply and
rural sanitation supported by community participation, benefitting about
60,000 people in poor underserved communities in four departments
(7.9%); and (ii) a medical waste disposal training program (0.1W); and
(d)   Monitoring. Evaluation, and Auditinq (US$1.2 million equivalent to
2W of total project cost) including institutional strengthening of the
SCES.
A more detailed description of the project components is provided below.
4.4. Exoansion of Nutrition Assistance (US$32.2 million including
contingencies). This component would provide incentives for those most at
risk of malnutrition to use PHC and primary education services to improve
opportunities for sustainable human capital development. Specifically, the
component would provide for:
(a)   Formulation and Implementation of a Longer-term Nutrition Poli
(US$0.1 million). This subcomponent would finance consultants' services
to assist the GOH in the preparation of a longer-term nutrition
assistance strategy that would be discussed during the first annual
project implementation review (para. 4.36), and subsequently be
implemented by the GOH in collaboration with the donor community. The
study would: (i) analyze the extent and causes of malnutrition in
Honduras, review existing nutrition assistance programs, establish the
priority modes of intervention and mechanisms to avoid overlap between
programs, and make recommendations for specific program adjustments to
improve program outcomes; (ii) formulate a national nutrition policy to
guide implementation of nutrition assistance programs. This would
include phasing-out or restructuring of some other existing nutrition
assistance programs; and (iii) develop an action plan for policy
implementation. The terms of reference for this study are presented in
Annex 17. The subcomponent would be wholly financed by the proposed IDA
Credit. At negotiations, the Borrower presented a signed letter to IDA
describing its health and nutrition policies and declaring its
commitment to the implementation of such policies, satisfactory to IDA
(Annex 18). During neaotiations. agreement was reached that the
Borrower. through the MOH, would: (i) formulate a lona-term nutrition



29
Policy and Dresent a draft policy statement to IDA by November 15. 1993:
(ii) discuss that volicy with IDA durina the first annual review of
vrolect imvlementation, no later than December 10. 1993: (iii) Preparg
an action plan, satisfactory to IDA. to imr=ement the policy by Janua-v
31, 1994: (iv) commence the imlementation of the action plan
immediately thereafter: and (vl complete the imwlementation of the
action plan, in a manner satisfactory to IDA. by December 31, 1995
(para. 6.1(a)).
(b)   Exoansion of the PRAF Food Coupon Proqrams (US$30.0 million).
This subcomponent would support a 44% expansion of the food coupon
programs administered by PRAF, raising coverage from 25% to
approximately 40% of the target group nationwide. PRAF would carry out
the expansion in accordance with criteria and targets, agreed with IDA,
included in its Operational Manual (Annex 19), described in the
expansion plan for the food coupon programs (Annex 10). At
negotiations, PRAF provided a draft Operational Manual, satisfactory to
IDA. During negotiations. agreement was reached: {i) on PRAF's
targeting criteria and expansion plan for the BMI and BMJF food coupon
programs, satisfactory to IDA and that these criteria would be
incorporated in PRAF's Operational Manual: and (ii) that PRAF would only
modify its Operational Manual with prior IDA consultation and agreement
(para. 6.1(b)). As a condition of effectiveness, a finalized
Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA. would have been approved and
adopted bA PRAF (para. 6.2(a)). The expansion plan contemplates more
than doubling the BMI coverage from about 56,000 in three departments to
about 124,000 pregnant and nursing mothers and children under five,
covering six additional departments. The BMJF, which currently has a
higher coverage than the BMI, would be expanded at a slower rate of
about 3W per year, from 120,200 to approximately 131,000, to cover
eligible students entering the first grade in seven departments
presently covered by the program. Those eligible to participate in the
BMJF program would be students entering the first grade and showing
symptoms of chronic malnutrition (stunting) measured by the national
School Nutrition Census (para. 4.4(e)). PRAF would increase the
frequency of BMJF distribution from two to four times a year to increase
propensity of coupon use in purchasing food, as recommended by IDA
(Annex 9). The expansion of the BMI food coupon program would be guided
by the following criteria: departments and municipalities with a
stunting rate above 40* would have priority; within priority
municipalities, the poorest villages would be targeted based on lack of
access to potable water and adequate sanitation; and in each village,
all pregnant and nursing women and al_ children under five years of age
would be eligible (Annex 10). The BMI expansion would not be carried
out in the same departments covered by the BMJF to avoid further
overlapping of benefits that occurred in the pilot stage. In accordance
with PRAF's Operational Manual, the distribution of both the BMI and the
BMJF would be made through the banking system. Attention would also be
given to avoiding overlapping between the food coupons expansion and
existing nutrition assistance programs that distribute food in-kind.
The quarterly operational audit of the PRAF (para. 4.34) would ensure
that any beneficiary overlapping that might occur would be immediately
corrected by PRAF. During the life of the project, the share of the BMI
would be increased from about 32% to nearly 45W of the total number of



30
beneficiaries. The proposed IDA Credit would finance US$6.0 million
equivalent, or 20% of the estimated cost of the food coupon
subcomponent. Regarding the maintenance of the value of the food
coupons, should the consumer price index in Honduras rise more than 25%,
PRAF would adjust the denomination of the coupons accordingly.
(c)   Technical Assistance to StrenQthen PRAF's Institutional Capacity
(US$0.9 million). Under a technical assistance agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, signed on April 30, 1992, UNDP would provide US$0.3 million
towards the cost of consulting services, training, promotion activities,
equipment and vehicles. IDA would provide an additional US$0.6 million
over the life of the project. PRAF has already filled key positions
with technical staff satisfactory to IDA and would, under the project,
contract consulting services to further improve the quality and
operational efficiency of the food coupon programs. In addition, the
proposed IDA Credit would finance external auditing of the PRAF,
including annual financial audits and quarterly operational audits
(paras. 4.33-4.34).
(d)   Nutrition Education (US$0.9 million).  The objective of this
subcomponent is to train health staff and community workers in
appropriate feeding practices that would ensure adequate nutrition for
pregnant women, exclusive breast-feeding during the first six months of
infants' lives and adequate weaning and feeding practices for children
up to two years of age. The project would provide for: (i) training of
MOH personnel; (ii) supervision and evaluation of the nutrition
education program; (iii) basic equipment; and (iv) operations research
on HIV transmission through breast-feeding. These activities would be
carried out by the MOH in collaboration with the Breast-feeding League
of Honduras (La Liga de la Lactancia Materna de Honduras, BFLH) and
UNICEF (Annex 12). The proposed training is an essential element to
enhance the quality of maternal and child health care provided by the
MOH. It would also contribute to improved birth spacing, family
planning acceptance, and control of STDs. The final beneficiaries would
comprise about 128,000 pregnant women and over 100,000 children less
than two years of age in four health regions in the project area. IDA
would finance US$0.8 million of the estimated costs of the subcomponent,
including all investment costs and a declining share of the recurrent
MOH staff costs. Under parallel financing, UNICEF and USAID would
finance the creation of a national network of nutrition counsellors at
the village level and the establishment of a center for breast-feeding
orientation and documentation by the BFLH.
(e)   Annual School Nutrition Census (US$0.3 million).  This
subcomponent would entail anthropometric measurement of all 6-9 year old
students entering the first grade of public schools nationwide. The
census, to be carried out annually, would be used to improve targeting
of the PRAF BMJF food coupon program. The census would be implemented
by the SCES, and would be wholly financed by IDA (Annex 17).
4.5. The cost of the expansion of the PRAF food coupon programs under the
project includes the cost of the subsidy (94%), coupon emission (0.6%),
banking costs (1i) and PRAF's overhead (4.4%). Thus, PRAF's direct
administrative costs are estimated at 6% of total program expansion costs,



31
which is reasonable. This compared favorably with a median 9's administrative
cost observed for 30 targeted social sector programs in Latin America in the
199OsLO. PRAF's overhead consists of: (i) program management; (ii)
management information system; (iii) administrative costs associated with
supervision of coupon distribution including counting and packaging coupons,
vehicles and field staff; (iv) central office staff and equipment allocated to
the food coupon programs; (v) public information services directed at final
beneficiaries and local merchants; and (vi) program evaluation. The costs of
technical assistance to PRAF are not included. Total disbursements are
estimated at US$8.9 million in the first year, US$10.1 million in the second
year, and US$11.0 million in the third year. IDA would finance US$6 million,
equivalent to 20% of total program cost on a declining basis over the project
implementation period (para. 4.16). Monetized in-kind food aid provided by
USAID and WFP would finance US$13.0 million, equivalent to 43% of total
program cost. The financing agreement between PRAF and the WFP, signed in
August 1992, provides for an additional US$0.7 million to finance initial
program expansion during 1992, which is not included in the project's
financing plan. The GOH would finance US$7.5 million or 25% of total program
cost. There is still a financing gap of US$3.5 million which is expected to
be filled by additional contributions from the donor community (para. 4.15).
4.6. StrengtheninQ Delivery of Preventive Health Services (US$16.7 million).
This component would comprise the following subcomponents:
(a)   Rehabilitation and Construction of PHC Centers (US$3.9 million),
including: (i) rehabilitation and re-equipping of about 130 PHC centers
in the project area; (ii) construction and equipping of 30 new centers
in priority poverty areas not currently served; (iii) creation of a
maintenance fund to be locally managed to cover routine maintenance of
buildings, equipment and vehicles; (iv) a feasibility study for a radio
communication network to improve referrals, test of the system with ten
experimental stations during the first year of project implementation,
and if successful, expansion of the network to an additional 30 stations
in the following two years of project implementation. Terms of
reference for this study are described in Annex 17; and (v) vehicles to
be used in supervision of PHC services operation including preventive
maintenance. In defining the scope of this component, priority was
given to the rehabilitation of existing centers, given the pressing
needs for extensive repairs facing the system and considering that
rehabilitation has lower initial and incremental operating costs than
new construction. The selection of centers to be rehabilitated under
the project was made according to the following criteria: (i) centers
to be located in the BMI project area; (ii) rehabilitation works not to
exceed a limit equivalent to US$10,000 per center; and (iii) location in
poor areas with high rates of malnutrition. For construction of
centers, location would be determined according to: (i) priority areas
in the BMI project area; (ii) underserved population in the catchment
area ranging from 1,500 to 3,000 people, that is, corresponding to the
service capacity of a CESAR; and (iii) five to ten km minimum distance
to the nearest PHC centers. For new construction as well as for
1' The World Bank. "From Platitudes to Practice: Targeting Social Programs
in Latin America" (2 Vols.). Report No. 10720-LAC. Washington, D.C. June
1992.



32
rehabilitation, the proposed solution would be the least-cost solution
or the only alternative. Final designs are available for 32 centers
already selected and programmed for rehabilitation in 1993. A
preliminary selection of 70 additional centers to be rehabilitated has
been done and final designs are underway. The location of new centers
has been also identified in accordance with the selection criteria
specified above. A prototype architectural design for the new CESARs
has been developed, comprising two clinics and sanitary facilities
within about 100 m2 floor area. The corresponding list of required
medical and laboratory supplies has also been prepared (Division Files).
IDA would finance US$3.5 million equivalent to 91% of the estimated cost
of the component, and the balance would be financed by project
beneficiaries. Community participation was estimated at 9% of the cost
of construction and includes the cost of fences surrounding the PHC
centers, some painting work and minor repairs (Annex 13). Durina
negotiations. agreement was reached on the criteria for selection of
health centers to be rehabilitated and for the location of health
centers to be constructed (para. 6.1(c)(i)).
(b)   Improvement of MOH Institutional Caxacitv (US$3.4 million).  This
component is designed to improve the quality of basic health services
provided by the MOH in the project area, strengthen MOH's capacity to
administer these services and improve sector planning and budgeting.
Specifically, the following would be provided: (i) additional health
staff that would be allocated to primary health centers including
approximately 28 physicians, 63 professional nurses, 168 auxiliary
nurses, six laboratory technicians, six teaching staff for auxiliary
nursing schools, and 40 health promoters; (ii) establishing of a Project
Unit at the MOH Planning Department consisting of eight professional
staff and four auxiliary staff; (iii) in-service training for all levels
of staff engaged in the provision of basic health services in the
project area; and (iv) strengthening of staff supervision (Annex 14).
The incremental PHC staff would be allocated to the BMI project area,
covering entire health areas (rather than restricted to the specific
health centers where the food coupons would be distributed), so as to
expand the institution building impact of the project to a wider segment
of the MOH basic health system. The IDA Credit would finance US$2.4
million of the estimated cost of this component, including recurrent
costs on a declining basis. The Borrower has already created and
staffed the Project Unit and prepared training guides and materials
satisfactory to IDA (Annex 14). Durina negotiations. aareement was
reached on criteria for allocation of MOH's plan for incremental
staffina in the BMI project area (para. 6.1(c) (ii)).  Agreement was also
reached that the MOH Proiect Unit would be headed by a aualified
professional and assisted by aualified staff. satisfactory to IDA (para.
6.1(d)).
(c)   Basic Druas (US$7.2 million), including US$4.7 million of the
proposed IDA Credit, would be used for the procurement of essential
medicines for the PHC network. The MOH has already improved its
capacity for inventory control, storage, and distribution of drugs in
recent years, with assistance under USAID's Second Health Sector
Project, but improvement needs to be made in procurement. Thus the
urgent need to increase the efficiency of the resources allocated for



33
drugs by the MOH (Annex 15). This subcomponent would finance: (i)
additional pharmaceutical drugs used by the MOH in the primary health
services network nationwide; (ii) technical assistance and training to
improve the procurement of drugs by the MOH; and (iii) a study to
determine regulatory and other factors constraining the private
marketing of generic drugs in Honduras, and recommend appropriate
solutions, to be carried out during the first year of project
implementation in accordance with terms of reference specified in Annex
17. The medicines to be financed by IDA would be procured from UNICEF
(para. 4.22). During the first project implementation year improved
procurement practices would be introduced by the MOH for all medicines,
and technical assistance provided to the MOH throughout project
implementation would ensure MOH's adoption of the improved procurement
practices recommended by IDA. Proper use of medicines at PHC facilities
would be ensured through staff training under the project (para.
4.6(b)).  With support from the Japanese Grant Facility, training and
computer equipment has been provided to the MOH during project
preparation. The IDA Credit would finance US$4.8 million or 671 of the
estimated cost of the subcomponent, including all investment costs and
part of the recurrent costs of medicines on a declining basis, and the
GOH would finance the balance.  Durina necaotiations. aareement was
reached that the Borrower would Dresent. no later than December 10 of
each year, starting in December 1993, a schedule for the Drocurement of
druas under the rroiect. satisfactorv to IDA (para. 6.1(e)).  The
Borrower has presented such a schedule for 1993, satisfactory to IDA.
(d)   AIDS Control Proaram (USS2.2 million).  In response to the rapid
increase in HIV infection and reported AIDS cases which have caused the
GOH to declare a national emergency, this subcomponent would finance:
(i) technical assistance for the preparation of a Medium-term AIDS
Control Program for the 1993-1995 period; and (ii) the implementation of
the AIDS Control Program. The activities to be financed under the
project would be carried out by the MOH, comprise: technical assistance
for preparing the final design of the Medium-term AIDS control program;
medical and laboratory supplies, including medicines to treat sexually
transmitted diseases and biosecurity supplies; NGO services and
technical assistance to help promote behavioral change among high risk
groups; specialized training for health staff; equipment for laboratory
testing and blood bank control facilities; consulting services,
including publicity services and preparation of information, education
and communications materials. Technical assistance and financing for
program preparation would be provided by PAHO/WHO. The program and
financing plan would be presented to the donor community, in
Tegucigalpa, before the end of 1992. The total cost of implementation
of the three-year program is estimated at US$5.2 million. PAHO would
provide US$0.08 million and the IDA Credit would provide US$2.1 million
or 40% of estimated cost of program implementation. Additional support
totalling US$3.0 million would be provided by the Government (US$2.0
million), USAID (US$0.7 million) and the GPA (US$0.3 million).  A"A
condition for disbursement for the AIDS Control Proaram. the Borrower
would provide IDA with a satisfactory AIDS Control Proaram for the 1993-
1995 period and a financing plan. satisfactory to IDA. for the
implementation of such vroaram (para. 6.3(a)). In addition, under the
proposed project, operating procedures, staff training programs, and



34
information activities provided through the PHC network would
incorporate appropriate preventive measures to detect the presence and
slow the transmission of the HIV virus that causes AIDS. In particular,
protocols for prenatal care would include provision for systematic
detection and treatment of STDs that are a risk factor for HIV infection
and a co-factor that increases the probability of infection several
times. Nutrition education information would also contain modules
directed to mothers infected with HIV and operations research on HIV
transmission through breast-feeding.
4.7.  Improving Environmental Health (US$4.1 million).  In support of the MCH
mandate to provide water and sanitation in rural areas, this component would
benefit approximately 60,000 villagers with water supply systems and latrines
in currently underserved villages in four departments in the project area that
exhibit the lowest water and sanitation service levels (Annex 16).
Specifically, the component would provide:
(a)   Rural Water Suogly and Sanitation through:  (i) 40 gravity water
systems; (ii) 300 dug shallow wells with hand pumps; (iii) tools for the
community to operate and maintain the system; (iv) installation of
10,000 latrines of the pit and water-sealed types; (v) a program of
community promotion to beneficiary communities, including their
participation in project construction, establishment of local water
boards, operation and maintenance of the systems, and protection of
water sources; and (vi) engineering studies to prepare a second stage of
a water and sanitation component for construction during the second half
of the proposed project; and
(b)   Medical Waste Disposal Training Prooram tailored for PHC
facilities (Annex 17).
4.8. For water supply and sanitation (Annex 16), the component establishes
services levels that each community may choose from in accordance to its
willingness to pay for the services. At any level, the final design would be
the least-cost solution or the only alternative.  As the MOH mandate limits
provision of water supply to small rural communities between 200 and 2,000
inhabitants, only villages with this size population would be contemplated
under this component. The eligibility criteria for village selection include:
(i) demonstrated intent and readiness, on the part of the community to form a
Local Water and Sanitation Board (Junta Administradora de Agua, JUNTA) to take
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the system; (ii) surface
water sources available by gravity or ground water for well development,
available at shallow depth of no more than 25 meters; in both cases, ease of
development would be an important consideration; (iii) community agreement
that latrines would be installed in rural homes simultaneously with the water
works; and (iv) location near all-weather or dry-weather roads, or
alternatively, provision of substantial community input for the transportation
of materials. Care would also be taken to assure that the communities are not
listed in the portfolios of other ongoing water supply and sanitation
programs. Duringy negotiations, acrreement was reached on the criteria for
selecting localities for the construction of water suvvlv and sanitation
svstW_& (para. 6.1(c) (iii)).  Each JUNTA would be formed in accordance with
the legal pre-requisites established by the regulations for local water and
sanitation boards approved by SANAA in 1991 and would be registered as a



35
private entity under the Ministry of Interior. The MDH would expedite the
granting of legal status to the JUNTAB by serving as intermediary to process
applications at the Ministry of Interior. Each JUNTA would adopt a Water and
Sanitation Operational Manual, containing the administrative, technical and
financial criteria to be followed in operating and maintaining local water
supply and sanitation systems, including levying and collecting user fees
sufficient to cover system's operations and maintenance (Annex 20). Durin
negotiations. agreement was reached that the MOR would take all necessary
steps to set tariffs for the water supplv and sanitation services to bo
charged by each JUNTA to the users of these services, at levels sufficient to
cover the overation and maintenance costs of such systems (para. 6.1(f)). The
JUNTA Water and Sanitation Operational Manual and models of the legal
documents whereby the MOH would transfer ownership, operation, and maintenance
of the system to the JUNTA, have been prepared by the MOH and are satisfactory
to IDA.  During negotiations. agreement was reached that:  (i) vrior to the
initiation of the works of any water sur,ly and sanitation subnrolects:  (a)
the MOH would enter into a contract with the JUNTA correspondina to the
village where such subproiect will be located: (b) each contract shall be on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. includina. inter alia. those set
forth in the Water and Sanitation Operational Manual: and (c) the MOH shall
take all necessary steps for the exDeditious arantina of leaal status to each
JUNTA; and (ii) the Water and Sanitation Overational Manual would not be
amended without Drior IDA aareement (para. 6.1(g)). The MOH would supervise
the operation and finances of the JUNTA and perform periodical tests on the
quality of the water through its regional administration, carrying out
remedial action, when necessary. Durina neaotiations. aareement was reached
that the MOH would supervise the operation and finances of the JUNTAs and test
the aualitv of the water, at least oc  a year. no later than March 31 of each
year and cause or take remedial action. if necessarv. startina in March 1994
(para. 6.1(h)). Coordination between the water supply and sanitation
activities carried out by the MOH, the JUNTAs, the municipalities and SANAA
would be analyzed under a sector study proposed by the GOH (Annex 18) that
would be supported by IDA. Relevant sector issues could be addressed under a
future sector operation for which the GOH has requested IDA support. AS"a
condition of effectiveness, the Water SunmlV and Sanitation Operational
Manual, satisfactorv to IDA. would have been armroved and adopted by the MOH
(para. 6.2(b)).
4.9. Monitoring, Evaluation. Auditing. Studies and Institutional
Strengthening of the SCES (US$1.2 million). In addition to coordinating the
execution of the annual school nutrition censuses (para. 4.4(e)), the SCES
would coordinate the implementation of the project, in accordance with
performance indicators satisfactory to IDA, carry out monthly meetings during
the implementation of the project with MOH and PRAF to update said monitoring
and evaluation indicators, and report periodically to IDA. The institutional
capacity of SCES would be ensured by its staff of six professionals, which
would be strengthened, under the project, by the contracting of a financial
analyst satisfactory to IDA, and the purchasing of adequate computer and
communications systems and one vehicle. Under this component, to be wholly
financed by the proposed IDA Credit, the following activities would be carried
out:



36
(a)   External auditing of the accounts and other financial records and
statements of the project, including those for the Special Account and
of PRAF, to be contracted by MOH and by PRAF (paras. 4.33-4.35);
(b)   Monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the project,
including annual project implementation reviews to be carried out by MOH
and PRAF in accordance with project performance indicators satisfactory
to IDA (para. 4.36);
(c)   A study to assess the MOH's system for recovering costs of health
services (paras 1.22 and 2.13(b)), focusing on: (i) the incentives that
need to be provided for increasing cost-recovery; (ii) the development
of equitable and affordable cost-recovery schedules; and (iii) the
expansion of an improved cost-recovery system nationwide; the terms of
reference for this study are described in Annex 17. Durina
negotiations. aareement was reached that MOR would: {) carry out a
study of cost-recovery of health services by no later than December 10,
1993: (ii) discuss the recommendations of the study with IDA during the
first project imnlementation review: and {iii) prepare an action vlan.
satisfactory to IDA. to imwlement these recommendations by January 31.
1994: aoreement was also reached that the MON would commence
imvlementation immediately thereafter. for completion by December 10.
199 (para. 6.1(i)); and
(d)   Operations research by MOH to study specific mother and child
health care and nutrition problems relevant to the outcomes of the
project; priority topics would include referral system for health
services; local information systems; service quality indicators; and
sentinel sites to measure changes in health status of the population
over time (para. 2.11(b) and Annex 17).
4.10. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the SCES would contract,
by January 31, 1993, a financial analyst and the necessary technical staff to
strengthen its institutional capacitv (para. 6.1(j)).
D.    Lending Arrangements and Imolementation
4.11. The proceeds of the Credit (US$25.0 million equivalent) would be lent to
the Republic of Honduras, which would pass on US$6.0 million (about 24% of the
total Credit) as a grant to PRAF to implement the food coupon programs and
US$0.6 million for the institutional strengthening of PRAP. Of the remaining
Credit proceeds, about US$6.5 million would be used by the MWH to rehabilitate
and/or build primary health facilities and rural water supply and sanitation
systems, US$6.6 million would support incremental MOH expenditures on for
drugs, additional staff and institutional development, US$2.1 million would
support the implementation of the MOH AIDS Control Program, and US$3.2 million
would be used for technical assistance, complementary nutrition activities,
monitoring, evaluation, auditing, studies and institutional strengthening of
the SCES. Recurrent costs, including the costs of providing food coupons,
drugs and salaries, would be financed by IDA on a declining basis over the
life of the project. As a condition of effectiveness, a Subsidiary Agreement
for making the funds available by the Borrower to PRAF. satisfactory to IDA,
would have been entered into and authorized (para. 6.2(c)).



37
4.12. The project would be implemented over a three-year period by PRAF, MOH,
and SCES. These three institutions have the capacity to implement the project
and would be strengthened under the project (paras. 4.4(c), 4.6(b) and
4.9(b)). Specific implementation arrangements would be as follows:
(a)   The PRAF would:  (i) implement the food coupon programs (para.
4.4(b)); (ii) receive technical assistance to strengthen its
institutional capacity to administer its programs (para. 4.4(c)); and
(iii) contract annual financial audits and quarterly operational audits
with external private auditors, acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.9(a) and
4.32-4.34).  At necotations. aareement was reached that PRAF would carrv
out the vrovision of food supiplements, throuah food coupons, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with annro3riate
administrative. public health. technical. manaaerial and financial
practices, and in accordance with the PRAF Owerational Manual.
satisfactorv to IDA (para. 6.1(k)). A law extending the life of the
PRAF indefinitely has been passed (Decree No. 135-92 of October 1992)
and was published in the Official Gazette on November 14, 1992;
(b)   The MOH would implement:  (i) the formulation and implementation
of a longer-term nutrition policy (para. 4.4(a)); (ii) nutrition
education (para. 4.4(d)); (iii) health services (para. 4.6); and (iv)
environmental health components (para. 4.7), through a Project Unit
already established in the Planning Department (para 4.6(b)). To assist
in the implementation of the rehabilitation and construction of PHC
centers (para. 4.6(a)), the MOH would enter into an agreement with the
FHIS to delegate the administration of civil works pertaining to that
subcomponent. FHIS would charge MOH a 3% fee over the value of the
civil works contracts, which corresponds to the average supervision cost
for infrastructure subprojects under the FHIS-I project. PHIS would
administer the works in close collaboration with the MOH Project Unit
and regional management, to ensure maximum community participation. In
the event that FHIS would be phased out in 1984, the MOH would assume
full responsibility for managing the contracts for the remaining works
through the National Health Services Program (PRONASSA). To assist in
the implementation of the nutrition education component, the MOH would
secure technical assistance from the BFLH and UNICEF (para. 4.4(d) and
Annex 12). For the procurement of drugs to be financed by the proposed
IDA Credit, the MOH would enter into a purchasing agreement with UNICEF
and implement the component in accordance with the procurement schedule
established under the project. For the procurement of the remaining
drugs to be financed under the project, agreement has been reached
between IDA and the MOH for the provision of technical assistance for
improving MOH's methods of procurement through a consulting contract
with a firm of specialized international consultants. The MOH would
also be responsible for carrying out all the studies contemplated under
the project (paras. 4.9 (c) and 4.9 (d)), in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (Annex 17). An agreement between the NOH,
the BFLH and UNICEF, to support the implementation of the nutrition
education component, has been signed. As a condition of effectiveness,
the aareement between the MOH and FHIS for administration of civil works
under the proiect would have been siacned (para. 6.2(d)). As a condition
for disbursement for the druars comonent. a purchasina aareement between



38
MOR and UNICEF for the vrocurement of druag  financed by IDA,
satisfactory to IDA, would have been sioned (para. 6.3(b)); and
(c)   The I=  would be strengthened under the project and would:  (i)
implement the annual school nutrition censuses (para. 4.4(e)); (ii)
coordinate project implementation in accordance with performance
indicators satisfactory to IDA, through monthly meetings with MOH and
PRAF and annual project implementation reviews (paras. 4.9(b) and
4.36)); (iii) present periodical reports to IDA (para. 4.29); and (iv)
contract additional staff to improve its institutional capacity (para.
4.10).
E.    Costs and Financing Plan
4.13. Total project cost, net of taxes and tariffs, expressed in June 1992
prices, is estimated at US$54.2 million equivalent. Foreign exchange costs
(US$21.9 million) represent 401 of the total project cost. Detailed costs
estimates and financing plan are shown in Tables 4.1 and 4.2 below,
respectively, and in Annexes 1 and 2, respectively.
4.14. Project cost estimates include physical contingencies calculated at 10l
for civil works and 5 for equipment based on final engineering for the
subprojects to be constructed during the first year of project implementation;
price contingencies applicable to foreign exchange costs, estimated according
to the average forecasted for 1991-2000 in US dollar terms, or about 3.91 per
year; and local price contingencies, estimated based on forecasted local
inflation rates of 8a, 61, and 41 for 1993, 1994, and 1995, respectively. The
estimated costs of financing primary health care centers include 21 for
engineering and administration costs, 101 for physical contingencies in civil
works and 5* in medical, laboratory and communications equipment and 7% in
recurrent maintenance costs. The estimated cost of the environmental health,
water supply and sanitation subcomponent includes 61 engineering and
administration costs and 101 physical contingencies. Community participation
in that subcomponent is estimated at 231 of construction costs, in accordance
with regional wages and contribution in local materials. The average
investment base cost for both water and sanitation services is estimated at
US$56 per housing unit and the average operating cost is estimated at US$9 per
year per housing unit. Neither physical nor price contingencies were applied
to the food coupons component since any increase in the individual cost of
coupons would be reflected in a reduced number of coupons. The costs of
technical assistance, which would finance consultants and studies, are based
on the average cost of technical assistance provided by UN agencies in
Honduras.



39
Table 4.1:  PROJECT COST SUMhARY BY COMPONENT1J
Local       Foreicrn      Total
US$ million
I.    NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
A. Nutrition Policy                    0.01         0.09         0.10
B. PRAF Food Coupons                  21.00         9.00        30.00
C. PRAP Technical Assistance           0.35         0.61         0.96
D. Nutrition Education                 0.44         0.29         0.73
E. Nutrition School Census             0.22         0.02         0.24
Subtotal                              22.02        10.01        32.03
II.   HEALTH SERVICES
A. Primary Health Care Centers         1.47         1.58         3.05
B. Human Resources Development         2.68         0.05         2.73
C. Basic Drugs                         0.63         5.83         6.46
D. AIDS Program                        0.53         1.32         1.85
Subtotal                               5.31         8.78        14.09
III.  ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH                    2.08         1.10         3.18
IV.   MONITORING. EVALUATION
AND AUDITING                           0.47         0.60         1.07
BASE COST                             29.88        20.49        50.37
Physical Contingencies           0.32         0.25         0.57
Price Contingencies              2.16         1.13         3.29
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    32.36         21.87       54.23
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ 000)
Local      Foreiain      Total
US$ million
Government of Honduras                 9.45          1.78       11.23
Beneficiaries                          0.69          0.29        0.98
IDA                                   12.06        12.94        25.00
USAID                                  1.80          1.20        3.00
World Food Program                     6.00          4.00       10.00
UNDP                                   0.14          0.19        0.33
UNICEF                                 0.11          0.00        0.11
PAHO                                   0.01         0.07         0.08
Other Donors                           2.10          1.40        3.50
TOTAL FINANCING                       32.36        21.87        54.23
4.15. The proposed IDA credit of SDR17.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent)
would finance 46% of total project cost. Project beneficiaries would
contribute approximately 2% of total project cost. The Borrower's
U/ Net of taxes and duties.
I The GOH is pursuing discussion with donors interested in the project (see
para. 4.15).



40
contribution would be US$11.2 million or 21% of total project cost, and would
finance part of the PRAF and the MOH' s recurrent costs during project
implementation. The project includes a large proportion of food coupon costs.
As these are recurrent costs, a large portion of these costs would be financed
by the Borrower to ensure sustainability. Financing arrangements totalling
US$13.5 million have already been signed (US$3.0 million equivalent from USAID
(BSF); US$10.0 million equivalent from WFP; US$0.33 million equivalent from
UNDP; US$0.11 million equivalent from UNICEF; and US$0.08 million equivalent
from PAHO). There remains a financing gap of US$3.5 million for which the GOH
is seeking financing from donors which have expressed interest in the project.
The GOH will make its best efforts to obtain by September 30, 1993 loans or
grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$3.5 million to assist PRAF in
the financing of the food coupon component of the project. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that. in the event the Borrower is not
able to obtain additional financing in the amount of US$3.5 million by
September 30. 1993, the Borrower will provide in its 1995 annual budget, in
addition to the corresponding amounts set forth in Dara. 4.16. an amount in
Lem=iras eauivalent to US$3.5 million, as incremental countervart funds for
the PRAF food coupon comoonent of the vroiect (para. 6.1(1)). A a condition
of effectiveness. agreements for total financing of US$13.5 million from other
donors. satisfactory to IDA. would have been sianed (para. 6.2(e)).
4.16. Incremental Recurrent Costs. The proposed IDA Credit would finance
about 20* of the recurring costs of the PRAF food coupon programs and 64% of
the MOH incremental recurrent expenditures for basic drugs and salaries on a
declining basis as indicated in the proposed schedule of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Credit (Annex 3). During the first year of project
implementation, incremental recurrent expenditures of the MOH, including those
expenditures financed by IDA, would represent 4.4% of the MOH total budget
(estimated at US$67.6 million equivalent in 1992); in the second year, 1.2% of
the estimated MOH budget; and in the last year of project implementation, less
than 1 of the estimated MOH budget. The proposed increment in MOH recurrent
expenditures should not pose a problem because the GOH plans to increase the
share of MOH budget in Central Government expenditures from 6.6% in 1992 to
8.0% in 1993, which would suffice for the incremental recurrent expenditures
generated by the project. Furthermore, the incremental recurrent expenditures
generated by the project would contribute to the increase in the share of non-
salary recurrent expenditures, particularly of drugs, from 17% to over 20% of
MOH recurrent expenditures, and redress the balance between preventive and
curative health care. This shift in resource allocation is essential to
supply urgently needed drug supplies to meet the minimum requirement of the
PHC network. The partial financing of PRAF food coupons is justified because:
(i) IDA's participation would promote institution and policy improvements in
the sector; (ii) Honduras' budget resources are scarce; and (iii) the program
clearly has a productive purpose as it would help restore the productive labor
resources of Honduras by reducing malnutrition. The PRAF incremental
recurrent expenditures for food coupons would increase during the first year
of project implementation by 24%, followed by a 17% increase in the second
year and a 12.5% increase in the third year of project implementation. GOH
financing would follow the schedule in Table 4.3 below:



41
Table 4.3:  GOH FINANCING OF INCREMBNTAL RECURRENT COSTS
(US$ million)
199         1294         199         TOTAL
PRAF Food Coupons                     1.14         2.64         3.72        7.50
MOH Basic DrugsW                       -.-         0.59         1.79        2.38
MOH Salaries & Maintenance                         0.35         1.00        1.35
TOTAL                           1.14         3.58        6.51        11.23
Incremental recurrent expenditurs, including USS2.4 million in foreign exchange for the procurement of basic drugs.
During negotiations. agreement was reached that the Borrower would make the
following incremental allocations in its annual budgets: {i) US$2.0 million
in 1993, US$2.5 million in 1994. and US$3.0 million in 1995 for PPAF food
coupons: (ii) for MOH basic drugs. US$0.59 million in 1994 and US$1.79 million
in 1995 for MOH basic drugs: and {iii) US$0.35 million in 1994. and US$1.00
million in 1995 for MOR salaries and maintenance (para. 6.1(m)).
4.17. Although GOH participation in financing the PRAF food coupon incremental
recurrent expenditures would rise from US$2.0 million in the first year to
US$3.0 million in the third year, excluding USAID funds, the sustainability of
the program over the longer-term would depend, to a large extent, on continued
donor financing. The IDB, USAID and the WFP were approached and expressed
interest in principle in providing assistance to the PRAF food coupon programs
for 1996 and beyond. Potential for longer-term financing commitments would
include: (i) US$30.0 million from the IDB on soft loan terms, scheduled for
IDB's 1994-1998 lending programs; (ii) US$10.0 million equivalent in monetized
food aid from the WFP as a follow-on grant to its current assistance to PRAF;
and (iii) a larger share of monetized food aid from USAID after 1995, the
amount of which would be based on PRAF's food coupon program performance under
the project. The GOH expects the PRAF's food coupon programs to be sustained
for as long as there is need for nutrition assistance in Honduras. Program
design would be modified based on the GOH long-term nutrition policy that
would be formulated under the project.
F.    Procurement
4.18. A recent assessment by IDA of Honduras' procurement procedures and
regulations indicates that they are not fully compatible with Bank Group
procurement guidelines and policy. To resolve conflicts between local
legislation and IDA's procurement guidelines, the following procurement
provisions would be included in the legal documents:
(a)   For works and goods to be orocured under Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures: (i) contracts should be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bid; (ii) foreign firms should be allowed to bid without prior
registration and should not be required to have a local agent, or
associate themselves with local firms; (iii) foreign firms should not be
required to certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran firms are
allowed to participate under equal terms for contracting; (iv) in
calculating the lowest evaluated bid, there should be no requirement to
take into consideration the financial cost of foreign expenditures; (v)
there should be no preferences to award contracts to Honduran firms
other than that accorded to members of the Central American Common



42
Market (Mercado Comun Centroamericano - CACM) (para. 4.21), and (vi) no
slicing of contract amounts will be permitted for the sole purpose of
reducing contract price amounts;
(b)   For Consultants' services:  (i) foreign consultants shall be
allowed to participate freely in the selection process even if local
consultants shall be available for the concerned services, and (ii) no
registration with national associations shall be imposed on foreign
consultants employed by foreign contractors or consultants and no
mandatory association with local firms shall be required; and,
In addition, to safeguard propriety in contracting and facilitate procurement
procedures, standard bidding documents, satisfactory to IDA, would be used
during project implementation for all methods of procurement.
4.19. The procurement plan for the project is shown in Table 4.4 below:
Table 4.4: METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(USS MILLION)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
CATEGORY               ICB  T  LCB  | OTHER        NIF    TOTAL
Equipment and Vehicles             0.9       2.0       0.5Y              3.4
(0.9)    (2.0)    (0.5)              (3.4)
Basic Drugs                                            4. 7F    2.3      7.0
(4.7)              (4.7)
Food Coupons                                           6. 0'   24.0     30.0
(6.0)              (6.0)
Civil Works                                  1.6       2.8f    1.0       5.4
(1.6)    (2.8)              (4.4)
Consultants                                            4. 6'    0.5      5.1
(4.6)              (4.6)
Salaries                                               1. 92    1.4      3.3
(1.9)              (1.9)
TOTAL                              0.9       3.6      20.5    29.2      54.2
(0.9)    (3.6)    (20.5             (25. 0)
Notes:    Figures in parentheses are the amounts estimcted to be financed by IDA.
NIP - Not IDA Financed.
Shopping.
Procured from UNICEF.
f'    Not subject to procurement.
F     Consultants, training and other service contracts procured under procedures acceptable to  DA.
4.20. Civil Works for rehabilitation and construction of health facilities and
water supply and sanitation systems, totalling US$5.4 million, would be
procured under the special procedures instituted for the FHIS and agreed with
IDA. The average contract amount is estimated at US$20,000, with the largest
mingle subproject costing less than US$100,000, and procurement by
international competitive bidding (ICB) is not expected. The special
procurement procedures instituted for the FHIS are as follows: (i) for civil
works contracts valued below US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of USS2.0



43
million, local shopping requiring at least three quotations would apply; (ii)
for some project components in remote locations, direct contracting would be
applied under exceptional circumstances, consistent with para. 3.5(f) of the
IDA Procurement Guidelines; direct contracting would also apply in cases where
only one offer would be available, and to ensure fair pricing, the system of
regional standard unit prices developed by the FHIS and updated periodically,
would be used as basis for direct price negotiations with the contractor; this
system of contracting would apply for contracts not exceeding US$35,000, up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.87 million; and (iii) for civil works contracts
valued at between US$50,000 and US$100,000, local competitive bidding (LCB)
would apply.
4.21. Goods: Vehicles would be procured in packages valued not less than
US$100,000 through ICB. Health-related equipment would be grouped, to the
extent possible, in bid packages valued at US$100,000 or more, and procured
also through ICB. Packages of similar equipment valued between US$25,000 and
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million, would be procured
through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for miscellaneous
equipment items valued less than US$25,000 would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers in an
aggregate not to exceed US$0.5 million. For purposes of bid evaluation under
ICB, manufacturers from the CACM, including Honduras, may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.22. Basic Druas financed by IDA would be separated from other drug
procurement under the project and would be procured from UNICEF's stock of
essential drugs held at the UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center (UNICAP)
warehouse in Copenhagen. This procurement procedure is justified because
Honduras does not have, at present, the capacity to package drugs for local
distribution and this deficiency curtails the country's access to economies
accruing from bulk purchases of generic drugs. Basic drugs not financed by
IDA would be procured by the MOH. Technical assistance would be provided
under the project to improve MOH's procurement methods. During the first year
of project implementation, an assessment would be made regarding the
desirability and legal feasibility of procuring all drugs consumed by the MOH
from UNICEF. Technical assistance, staff training, and improved computer
capabilities would be provided under the project to the MOH, to help
strengthen its procurement capacity (para. 4.7(c)). Special efforts would be
made under the project to train the MOH in: (i) grouping drugs in homogeneous
bidding packages; (ii) scheduling procurement and delivery dates in a timely
manner to meet consumption requirements while minimizing length of storage;
and (iii) improving the coordination between the MOH, the MOF, and the CBH by
establishing clearly defined schedules of procurement for basic drugs.
4.23. Food coupons, expected to total US$30.0 million, would not be subject to
special procurement regulations. Each beneficiary would receive a coupon of
about US$3.70 equivalent per month and use it to purchase food in
participating private or public stores of their choice. No food in bulk would
be purchased or distributed by the GOH under the project. Guarantees that
food coupons would only be used by the beneficiaries to purchase food would
not be requested under the project. This is not necessary (and would be
virtually impossible to monitor) because experience during the pilot program
has shown that beneficiaries use about 83t of the coupons' value to purchase



44
food.LY  The balance is used for purchasing basic items essential to poor
families such as school supplies, shoes and medicines. Coupon use would be
monitored during project implementation through interviews with merchants in
the project area. Experience during the pilot program has shown that, to a
large extent, the beneficiaries use the coupons to purchase food from local
retail stores.
4.24. Consultants would be selected by the Borrower in accordance with IDA
guidelines for the use of consultants, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.6
million. Taxes paid by foreign consultants on the foreign currency portion of
their contracts would be borne or refunded by the Borrower. IDA would review
terms of references, letter of invitation, proposal evaluation and contracts
for all consultant assignments. Standard contract documents would be
developed for the hiring of consultants. The total amount of contracts for
consultants' services under the project is estimated at US$5.1 million.
4.25. Salaries and maintenance expenditures, expected to total US$3.3 million,
would not be subject to special procurement regulations.
4.26. Review by IDA. IDA would review procurement documentation for: (i) all
contracts subject to ICB; (ii) the purchase agreement with UNICEF for the
supply of drugs; (iii) the first two LCB contracts for goods and works
respectively, regardless of their amount; and (iv) all consultants' contracts.
The proposed prior review arrangements are expected to cover about 50% of
goods and works contracts financed by IDA, which is considered acceptable for
this type of project and given the safeguard provided by the auditing
arrangements (paras. 4.32-4.35). All other contract for goods and works would
be subject to ex-post review by IDA during field supervision, on a random
basis.
G.    Supervision and Reporting
4.27. Technical and financial reporting under the project would be carried out
by the PRAF and the MOH under the coordination of the SCES based on project
performance indicators satisfactory to IDA (Annex 6). The SCES would hold
monthly meetings with PRAF and the MOH for purposes of updating project
implementation performance indicators.  Duriny negotiations, agreement was
reached that SCES would: (i) coordinate the imolementation of the vroiect.
and (ii) hold monthly meetings with PRAF and the MOH to update Droiect
verformance indicators (para. 6.1 (n)).  Agreement was also reached that the
SCES would submit to IDA. no later than March 31 and September 30 of each
year: (i) a report concerninc the vrocress in the imlementation of the
pro;ect in accordance with the yerformance indicators satisfactorx to IDA; ancd
{ii) a financial report which shall reflect: [a] for the semester precedincj
the date of presentation of the report, a comparison between funds committed
and funds used in carzvinca out the prolect. and the funds used on recurrent
costs under the proiect; and lb) a financina plan. satisfactozv to IDA, to be
applied to the semester following the date of presentation of the report.
(para. 6.1(o)).
23' See UNO y UNO Consultores. "Las que Trabajan Mas Para Ganar Menos: Las
Mujeres y la Crisis en los Noventa". Tegucigalpa: UNO, August 1991.



45
4.28. The proposed project would require about 25 staffweeks of supervision
per year. The supervision team would be a combination of IDA staff and
consultants with experience in the implementation of nutrition and health
projects in Latin America. Their main areas of expertise would be project
management, nutrition, PHC services, engineering, and finance. In addition,
the annual project implementation reviews, which would rely on a similar team
of experts, would require approximately 5 staffweeks.
H.    Disbursements
4.29. The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a three-year period.
Annex 3 presents the allocation of loan proceeds and estimated schedule of
disbursements. The expected disbursement profile for the proposed project
(Annex 3) is considerably faster than the average profile for social sector
investment projects financed by the Bank and IDA in the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region. Nevertheless, the proposed disbursement schedule is
considered justified in view of: (i) implementation of the health services
and environment health components would benefit from thorough preparation and
would be partly assisted by the FHIS, which has a track record of fast
disbursements; (ii) implementation of the food coupon program can be expected
to be on schedule; and (iii) implementation of studies and technical
assistance would be closely monitored by IDA. The project completion date
would be September 30, 1996 and the closing date would be June 30, 1997.
4.30. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) PRAF Food Coupons: 34% up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0
million equivalent; 20% up to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million
equivalent; and 9% thereafter; (b) Basic Drugs: 100% up to an aggregate
amount of US$2.0 million equivalent; 75% up to an aggregate amount of US$3.6
million equivalent; and 30% thereafter; (c) Civil Works: 100% of eligible
expenditures; (d) Eauipment and Vehicles: 100% of eligible expenditures; (e)
Consultants' Services for technical assistance to PRAF, MOH, and SCES and for
training: 100% of eligible expenditures; (f) Salaries of the MOH: 100% of
local expenses up to an aggregate amount of US$0.7 million equivalent; 75% of
local expenses up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million equivalent; and 30t
of local expenses thereafter. Disbursement would not be made against local
maintenance expenditures except for preventive maintenance for vehicles during
the warranty period. As indicated in the schedule of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Credit (Annex 3), disbursement categories would be subdivided
into three sets, to differentiate the expenditures incurred by the each of the
three project executing agencies.
I.    Documentation of Expenditures
4.31. Withdrawal applications for goods and services with a contract value of
US$20,000 or more would be supported by full documentation. Contracts of less
than US$20,000 and disbursements against expenses not undertaken by contract,
including food coupons and salaries, would be made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be maintained by
the PRAF and the MOH and would be made available for IDA review. A Special
Account of US$2.0 million would be opened in the CBH under the proposed
project and CBH staff assigned to make payments from the Special Account would
do so promptly, after confirming the accuracy of invoices and SOEs supporting
the withdrawal claim. Documentation forwarded to IDA for disbursement



46
(including SOEs, invoices, and supporting documentation) would cover a number
of subcomponents whose aggregate sum would be at least US$0.1 million.
J.    Accounts and Audits
4.32. The financial accounts of PRAF have been closely verified by the CBH.
In addition, PRAF was audited by private external auditors for the period
ending June 30, 1991. A management audit was also undertaken by USAID and its
recommendations have been implemented (para. 3.2).
4.33. Under the proposed project, PRAF would be audited by private independent
external auditors, acceptable to IDA, who would undertake annual audits of
PRAF. PRAF's first annual audits would cover the period July 1, 1991 to
December 31, 1992, with the audit to be completed no later than March 31,
1993. No later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
Borrower would submit an audit report on the Special Account and would cause
PRAF to submit to IDA certified copies of audit reports on: (i) balance
sheets, income statements, and auditor's opinion of financial statements; (ii)
SOEs; and (iii) an analysis of whether internal controls in place are adequate
to minimize the possibility of misuse of food coupons' resources or other
improprieties.
4.34. In addition, to ensure full transparency of PRAF's operations under the
project, the auditors would undertake special quarterly audits of PRAF's
operations on the basis of acceptable accounting norms and procedures. This
type of auditing, which has been successfully used under the FHIS-I and FHIS-
II projects, combines financial auditing with physical inspections of coupon
distribution operations in the field. The auditors would examine a sample of
PRAF's food coupon distribution operations and ascertain: (i) whether the
conditionalities agreed with IDA regarding eligibility criteria, number of
coupons per beneficiary, and frequency of coupon distribution are being
complied with; (ii) would reconcile the physical progress of coupon
distribution with the number of coupons issued and financial expenses
incurred; and (iii) would ascertain the adequacy of PRAF's overhead covering
the food coupon program administration. Quarterly reports would focus on
operations where errors have been detected and would provide an opinion on
whether all other operations examined were carried out in accordance with
PRAF's Operational Manual approved by IDA. Quarterly reports would be sent to
IDA, no later than two months after each quarter, and an annual summary would
be send to IDA, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
During negotiations, acareement was reached that PRAF would contract vrivate.
independent external auditors. acceDtable to IDA. to carry out:  {i) the audit
of PRAF operations from July 1. 1991 throuah December 31, 1992: (ii)
subseauent annual audits of PRAF operations. to be submitted no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year: and (iii) sDecial auarterlv audits
of PRAF operations. no later than three months after the end of each auarter
(para. 6.1(p)).
4.35. The Borrower, through MOH, would contract private, external auditors,
satisfactory to IDA, to perform annual audits of the records, accounts and
financial statements of the project, including those for the Special Account,
for each fiscal year. Certified copies of audit reports would be sent to IDA,
as soon as available, but in any case no later than six month after the end of
each fiscal year. The MOH would also furnish IDA with other information



47
concerning records, accounts, and financial statements of the project, as IDA
shall request from time to time. The terms of reference for these auditing
contracts would require prior approval by IDA. Durina neaotiations, aareement
was reached that the MOH would contract private, Independent external
auditors, acceptable to IDA. to carry out annual audits of the records and
accounts of the pro-ect, including those for the Special Account, and would
present said audit report to IDA, no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para. 6.1(q)). In addition, for the civil works under the
project, which would be administered by the FHIS (para. 4.12(b)), quarterly
operational audit procedures, established for the FHIS, would apply.
K.    Annual Proiect Imylementation Reviews
4.36. The Government and IDA would conduct annual project implementation
reviews in accordance with the terms of reference detailed in Annex 7. These
reviews would be coordinated by the SCES and would take place during the
second week of December of each year, starting no later than December 10,
1993. The focus of the annual review would be on the progress in the
execution of the project, the achievements of the project objectives, and on
compliance with the GOH's nutrition and health policies. The annual reviews
would cover all four components of the project, i.e. for: (i) nutrition
assistance; (ii) health services; (iii) environmental health; and (iv)
monitoring, evaluation, studies and auditing. The progress of each project
component would be assessed based on a set of performance and impact project
indicators, satisfactory to IDA (Annex 7). The results of these annual
reviews would be discussed with IDA and, on the basis of this, the SCES would
coordinate the preparation of an action plan satisfactory to IDA, for the
following project year, incorporating, as appropriate, remedial actions
recommended by IDA during the annual review to ensure the efficient execution
of the project. The SCES would present the action plan to IDA no later than
January 31 of each year. The plan would be implemented by the PRAF, MOH, and
SCES in a manner satisfactory to IDA according to the timetable specifying in
the plan. During negotiations, aareement was reached that the Borrower would:
(I) undertake annual groiect implementation reviews no later than December 10
of each year in collaboration with IDA} (ii) Dregare an action glan.
acceptable to IDA, by January 31 following each annual review; and (iii)
thereafter implement the action olan in accordance with the timetable included
in the plan. Should this action plan not be implemented satisfactorily, IDA
may refrain from further disbursements (para. 6.1(r)).
4.37. Proiect Sustainability. Health and environmental health services
provided under the project would be sustained over time through: (i)
collection of fees by local water boards (JUNTAS) to ensure operations and
maintenance of water and sanitation services, and setting up of user charges
by local health units to cover part of their operating costs; (ii) budgetary
provisions to ensure appropriate funding for recurrent primary health care
expenditures, to be reviewed in annual project reviews; and (iiL) improvements
in procurement of essential drugs to permit meeting minimum requirements at
lower cost. Sustainability of nutrition assistance would be ensured through:
(i) increased participation of the Government in program funding over the
project life; (ii) clear targeting and exit criteria that would limit the
number of program beneficiaries; (iii) mobilization of additional resources
for the PRAF food coupon program from the donor community to sustain the
program beyond the life of the project; and (iv) implementation of a long-term
nutrition assistance policy.



48
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
5.1. The main benefits of the project would be to help: (i) prevent a
deterioration in the nutritional status of the population most at risk as a
result of the economic adjustment program, through the distribution of food
coupons; (ii) support longer-term nutrition and health sector policy
formulation and implementation; (iii) reduce maternal, child and infant
mortality and morbidity rates by improving access to basic health services and
safe water supplies and sanitation; (iv) increase the coverage and efficiency
of primary education through increased enrollment and lower repetition and
dropout rates; (v) improve poor children's capacity to learn through better
nutrition and greater school attendance; (vi) strengthen the institutional
capacity of the MOH, SCES and PRAF; and (vii) curtail the spread of AIDS.
5.2. Environmental Effects. The project would have a positive impact on the
environment by increasing the supply of potable water and basic sanitation
albeit on a relatively small scale, and would have an environmental rating of
B. Environmental protection would be addressed by the project through: (i)
protection of water sources serving the water supply systems built; (ii) use
of standard safety procedures in all project works involving rehabilitation,
installation, and operation of medical equipment; and (iii) safe handling of
hazardous medical wastes and materials (such as disposable needles or blood-
contaminated products) ensured through training and supervision of health
staff.
5.3. Support for Women. The beneficiaries of the proposed project would be
pregnant and nursing women in low-income households at risk of malnutrition
and mothers of children attending grades one to three of primary school in the
project area. In total, an estimated 120,000 women would benefit directly
from the project. The types of benefits that would be expected from the
project include: (i) income transfer in the form of food coupons that would
increase women's resources to purchase food and better feed themselves and
their family; (ii) improved nutrition, which would contribute to reduce infant
and child morbidity and mortality; and (iii) increased access to preventive
health services, especially nutrition and family planning education,
comprehensive prenatal and postnatal care, scheduled screening and treatment
for risk factors, and proper guidance as to the benefits of breast-feeding.
As a result of the project, women would improve their chances to avoid high-
risk pregnancies, gain adequate weight during pregnancy, have safer deliveries
at hospitals or at home assisted by trained midwives, thus minimizing the
chance of having low-weight babies with poor survival prospects. Ultimately,
project impact would be reflected in lower maternal mortality rates. These
expected benefits accruing to women through the implementation of the proposed
project would go a long way in improving women's welfare status and the
conditions for their participation in the Honduran development process.
B.    Risks
5.4. The main risks associated with the project are: (i) management
constraints affecting PRAF's operational capacity to administer expanded food
coupon programs, and to adjust them to the Government's longer-term nutrition



49
policy; the project would reduce this risk through institutional strengthening
of PRAF; (ii) delays in improving the quality of basic health services in the
project area due to institutional constraints faced by the MOH; the project
would reduce or eliminate this risk through institutional strengthening of the
MOH, annual reviews of project implementation, and improved health and
nutrition expenditure controls and budget planning at the MOH. Risks (i) and
(ii) would also be addressed through close IDA supervision, especially in the
food coupon program, which is a new area for the Bank group; and (iii)
uncertain sustainability of the PRAF food coupon programs beyond project
support; this risk would be reduced by: (a) assisting the GOH in securing
donor participation for the formulation and implementation of a long-term
national nutrition assistance strategy; and (b) attracting additional donor
assistance for further support of the PRAF food coupon programs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMBNDATION
A.    Agreements Reached
6.1.  During negotiations, agreement was reached:
(a)   that the Borrower, through the MOH, would:  (i) formulate a long-
term nutrition policy and present a draft policy statement to IDA
by November 15, 1993; (ii) discuss that policy with IDA during the
first annual review of project implementation, no later than
December 10, 1993; (iii) prepare an action plan, satisfactory to
IDA, to implement the policy by January 31, 1994; (iv) commence
the implementation of the action plan immediately thereafter; and
(v) complete the implementation of the action plan, in a manner
satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1995 (para. 4.4(a));
(b)   (i) on PRAF's targeting criteria and expansion plan for the BMI
and BMJF food coupon programs, satisfactory to IDA and that these
criteria would be incorporated in PRAF's Operational Manual; and
(ii) that PRAF would only modify its Operational Manual with prior
IDA consultation and agreement (para. 4.4(b));
(c)   On the criteria for:
(i)   Selection of health centers to be rehabilitated and for the
location of health centers to be constructed (para. 4.6(a));
(ii)  Allocation of MOH's plan for incremental staffing in the BM1
project area (para. 4.6(b)); and
(iii) Selecting localities for the construction of water supply
and sanitation systems (para. 4.8);
(d)   that the MOH Project Unit would be headed by a qualified
professional and assisted by qualified staff, satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.6(b));



50
(e)   that the Borrower would present, no later than December 10 of each
year, starting in December 1993, a schedule for the procurement of
drugs under the project, satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.6(c));
(f)   that the MOH would take all necessary steps to set tariffs for the
water supply and sanitation services to be charged by each JUNTA
to the users of these services, at levels sufficient to cover the
operation and maintenance costs of such systems (para. 4.8);
(g)   that:  (i) prior to the initiation of the works of any water
supply and sanitation subprojects: (a) the MOH would enter into a
contract with the JUNTA corresponding to the village where such
subproject will be located; (b) each contract shall be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including, inter alia, those
set forth in the Water and Sanitation Operational Manual; and (c)
the MOH shall take all necessary steps for the expeditious
granting of legal status to each JUNTA; and (ii) the Water and
Sanitation Operational Manual would not be amended without prior
IDA agreement (para. 4.8);
(h)   that the MOH would supervise the operation and finances of the
JUNTAs and test the quality of the water, at least once a year, no
later than March 31 of each year and cause or take remedial
action, if necessary, starting in March 1994 (para. 4.8);
(i)   that MOH would:  (i) carry out a study of cost-recovery of health
services by no later than December 10, 1993; (ii) discuss the
recommendations of the study with IDA during the first project
implementation review; and (iii) prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to IDA, to implement these recommendations by January
31, 1994; agreement was also reached that the MOH would commence
implementation immediately thereafter, for completion by December
10, 1995 (para. 4.9(c));
(j)   that the SCES would contract, by January 31, 1993, a financial
analyst and the necessary technical staff to strengthen its
institutional capacity (para. 4.10);
(k)   that PRAF would carry out the provision of food supplements,
through food coupons, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, public health,
technical, managerial and financial practices, and in accordance
with the PRAF Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.12(a));
(1)   that, in the event the Borrower is not able to obtain additional
financing in the amount of US$3.5 million by September 30, 1993,
the Borrower will provide in its 1995 annual budget, in addition
to the corresponding amounts set forth in para. 4.16, an amount in
Lempiras equivalent to US$3.5 million, as incremental counterpart
funds for the PRAF food coupon component of the project (para.
4.15);



51
(m)   that the Borrower would make the following incremental allocations
in its annual budgets: (i) US$2.0 million in 1993, US$2.5 million
in 1994, and US$3.0 million in 1995 for PRAF food coupons; (ii)
for NOH basic drugs, US$0.59 million in 1994 and US$1.79 million
in 1995 for MDH basic drugs; and (iii) US$0.35 million in 1994,
and US$1.00 million in 1995 for MOH salaries and maintenance
(para. 4.16);
(n)   that SCES would:  (i) coordinate the implementation of the
project, and (ii) hold monthly meetings with PRAF and the MOH to
update project performance indicators (para. 4.27);
(o)   that the SCBS would submit to IDA, no later than March 31 and
September 30 of each year: (i) a report concerning the progress
in the implementation of the project in accordance with the
performance indicators satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) a financial
report which shall reflect: [a] for the semester preceding the
date of presentation of the report, a comparison between funds
committed and funds used in carrying out the project, and the
funds used on recurrent costs under the project; and [b] a
financing plan, satisfactory to IDA, to be applied to the semester
following the date of presentation of the report. The outline for
the reports and plan would be agreed upon during negotiations.
(para. 4.27);
(p)   that PRAF would contract private, independent external auditors,
acceptable to IDA, to carry out: (i) the audit of PRAF operations
from July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1992; (ii) subsequent
annual audits of PRAF operations, to be submitted no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) special
quarterly audits of PRAP operations, no later than three months
after the end of each quarter (para. 4.34);
(q)   that the MOH would contract private, independent external
auditors, acceptable to IDA, to carry out annual audits of the
records and accounts of the project, including those for the
Special Account, and would present said audit report to IDA, no
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year (para.
4.35); and
(r)   that the Borrower would:  (i) undertake annual project
implementation reviews no later than December 10 of each year in
collaboration with IDA; (ii) prepare an action plan, acceptable to
IDA, by January 31 following each annual review; and (iii)
thereafter implement the action plan in accordance with the
timetable included in the plan. Should this action plan not be
implemented satisfactorily, IDA may refrain from further
disbursements (para. 4.36).
6.2. The conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)   a finalized Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA, would have
been approved and adopted by PRAF (para. 4.4(b));



52
(b)   the Water Supply and Sanitation Operational Manual, satisfactory
to IDA, would have been approved and adopted by the MOH (para.
4.8);
(c)   a Subsidiary Agreement for making the funds available by the
Borrower to PRAF, satisfactory to IDA, would have been entered
into and authorized (para. 4.11);
(d)   the agreement between the MOH and PHIS for administration of civil
works under the project would have been signed (para. 4.12(b));
and
(e)   agreements for total financing of US$13.5 million from other
donors, satisfactory to IDA, would have been signed (para. 4.15).
6.3. The conditions for disbursement would be that:
(a)   for the AIDS Control Program, the Borrower would provide IDA with
a satisfactory AIDS Control Program for the 1993-1995 period and a
financing plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the implementation of
such program (para. 4.6(d)); and
(b)   for the drugs component, a purchasing agreement between MOH and
UNICEF for the procurement of drugs financed by IDA, satisfactory
to IDA would have been signed (para. 4.12(b)).
B.    Recommendati
6.4. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR17.8 million
(US$25.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity, including 10 years of grace.



- 53 -
HONqDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Project Costs
2.   Financing Plan
3.   Disbursement Schedule
4.   Project Area
5.   Regional Organization of the Ministry of Health
6.   Project Performance Indicators
7.   Annual Project Implementation Reviews
8.   Impact of the PRAF Food Coupon Programs
9.   Improvements in the PRAF Food Coupon Programs to be Implemented Under
the Project
10. PRAF Food Coupon Programs: Targeting Criteria and Expansion Plan
11. PRAF Organizational Chart
12. Nutrition Education
13. Primary Health Care Centers
14. Human Resources Development of the MOH
15. Basic Drugs for the Primary Health Care Network
16.  Environmental Health
17. Terms of Reference for Studies
18. Nutrition and Health Sector Policy Letter
19. Draft Outline of PRAF Operational Manual
20. Draft Outline of Water Supply and Sanitation Operational Manual
21. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- 54 -
[This page left blank)



-55-                                Annex 
PROJECT COSTS
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY COMPONENT
(US$ MILLION)
FOREIGN EXCHANGE |   OF BASE
AMOUNT               AMOUN       COSTS
I. NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
A.  NUTRITION POLICY                   0.10       90.0      0.09           0.2
B.  PRAF FOOD COUPONS                 30.00       30.0      9.00          59.6
C.  PRAP TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          0.96       64.0      0.61           1.9
D. NUTRITION EDUCATION
0.73       39.7     0.29            1.5
E. NUTRITION SCHOOL CENSUS
0.24       10.0     0.02            0.5
II. HEALTH SERVICES
A.  PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS        3.05       51.9      1.58           6.1
B.  HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT        2.73        1.8      0.05           5.4
C.  BASIC DRUGS                        6.46       90.3      5.83          12.8
D.  AIDS PROGRAM                       1.85       71.2      1.32           3.7
III.  ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH               3.18       34.5      1.10           6.3
IV.  MONITORING, EVALUATION,             1.07       56.2      0.60           2.1
AUDITING
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    50.37       40.7      20.5        100.00
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 0.57       44.4      0.25          1.10
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                    3.29       34.4      1.13          6.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      54.23       40.3    21.87         107.70



- 56 -                               Annex 1
PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT BY YEAR
(US$ MILLION)
[    |7 1993       1994      1995       TOTAL
I. NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
A.  NUTRITION POLICY                     0.10      0.00       0.00         0.10
B.  PRAF FOOD COUPONS                    8.90     10.10      11.00       30.00
C.  PRAF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            0.68      0.17       0.11         0.95
D.  NUTRITION EDUCATION                  0.32      0.23       0.18         0.73
E.  NUTRITION SCHOOL CENSUS              0.08      0.08       0.08         0.24
II.  HEALTH SERVICES
A.  PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS          0.88       1.27      0.90         3.05
B.  HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT          0.79      0.90       1.04         2.73
C.  BASIC DRUGS                          2.10      2.13       2.23         6.46
D.  AIDS PROGRAM                         0.08      0.89       0.88         1.85
III.  ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH                 1.17       1.09      0.91         3.17
IV.  MONITORING, EVALUATION,               0.33       0.38      0.36         1.07
AUDITING
*           TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                      15.43      17.25     17.69        50.37
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   0.18      0.22       0.17         0.57
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      0.63      1.18       1.48         3.29
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        16.24      18.64     19.34        54.23



- 57 -
FINANCING PLAN
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(USS 000)
||  OF TOTAL     FOREIGN EXCHANGE
AMOUNT       PROJECT                                l
COST                      AMOUNT
GOH                                11.23         20.7          15.8           1.78
BENEFICIARIES                       0.98          1.8          29.6           0.29
IDA                                25.00         46.1          51.8         12.94
WFP                                10.00         18.4          40.0           4.00
USAID                               3.00          5.5          40.0           1.20
UNDP                                0.33          0.6          57.6           0.19
UNICEF                              0.11          0.2           0.0           0.00
PAHO                                0.08          0.1          87.5           0.07
FINANCING GAP                       3.50          6.5          40.0           1.40
TOTAL                              54.23        100.0          40.3         21.871
FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ 000)
ENVIRON-   MONITORING,
NUTRITION      HEALTH       MENTAL    EVALUATION,       TOTAL   ]
SERVICES      HEALTH       AUDITING
GOH                    7.59          3.64         0.00          0.00        11.23
BENEFICIARIES          0.00          0.15         0.83          0.00         0.98
IDA                    7.80        12.79          3.17          1.24        25.00
WFP                   10.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        10.00
USAID                  3.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         3.00
UNDP                   0.33          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.33
UNICEF                 0.00          0.00         0.11          0.00         0.11
PAHO                   0.00          0.08         0.00          0.00         0.08
FINANCING GAP          3.50          0.00         0.00          0.00         3.50
TOTAL                 32.22         16.66         4.11          1.24        54.23



- 58Annex 2
FINANCING PLAN
FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
(US$ 000)
1993          1994           1995          TOTAL
GOH                              2.02           3.43          5.78           11.23
BENEFICIARIES                    0.31           0.33          0.34            0.98
IDA                              9.66          9.11           6.22          25.00
WFP                              2.90          4.60           2.50           10.00
USAID                            1.00           1.00          1.00            3.00
UNDP"                            0.27           0.06          0.00            0.33
UNICEF"'                         0.00           0.11          0.00            0.11
PAHOl                            0.08           0.00          0.00            0.08
FINANCING GAP                    0.00           0.00          3.50            3.50
TOTAL                           16.24          18.64         19.34           54.23
"    Project financing by UNDP, UNICEF, and PAHO disbursed in 1992 are shown
as 1993 disbursements



-59 -                               Annex 3
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DISBURS29wNTS
WITHDRAWALS OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE CREDIT
AMOUNT OF THE
CATEGORY         LOAN ALLOCATED                 i OF EXPENDITURES
(EXPRESSED IN                  TO BE FINANCED
SDR EQUIVALENT)
(1) Food                   4,270,000   34% of local expenditures up to an
Supplements                             aggregate amount of SDR2,130,000; 20% of
local expenditures up to an aggregate
amount of SDR3,550,000; and 9% of local
expenditures thereafter
(2) Medicines              3,050,000   100% up to an aggregate amount of
SDR1,420,000; 75* up to an aggregate amount
of SDR2,560,000; and 30% thereafter
(3) Civil Works            2,840,000   100l
(4) Equipment,
tools, and
Vehicles
PRAF                     200,000   100%
MOH                    1,500,000   100%
SCES                      30,000   100l
(5) Consultants'
Services!'
PRAF                     380,000   100l
MOH                    2,140,000   100%
SCES                     290,000   100%
(6) Salaries               1,140,000   100% of local expenses up to an aggregate
amount of SDR500,000; 75% of local expenses
up to an aggregate amount of SDR930,000;
and 30% of local expenses thereafter
Unallocated                1,960,000
Total                     17,800,000
' Includes consultants' services for technical assistance, training, and
studies.



- 60 -                               Annex 3
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLION)
IDA                      DISBURSED                     DISB. AS
FISCAL      SEMESTER         DURING      CUMULATIVE   PERCENTAGE   BALANCE OF
YEAR        ENDING         SEMESTER       AMOUNT       OF TOTAL        CREDIT
93    June 30, 1993           4.83"            4.83        19.3           20.17
Dec. 31, 1993           4.83            9.66         38.6          15.34
94    June 30, 1994           4.55            14.21        56.8           10.79
Dec. 31, 1994           4.55           18.76         75.0           6.24
1  95    June 30, 1995        3.12            21.88        87.5            3.12
96    Dec. 31, 1995           3.12            25.00       100.0            0.00
Includes the initial deposit of US$2.0 million to the Special Account.



- 61 -                               Annex 4
PROJECT AREA
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
MALNUTRITION INDICATORS
1991, 1992
HEALTH      DEPARTMENT   UNDERWEIGHT   STUNTING    ESTIMATED    BMJF=A
REGION                       < 5 YRS      6-9 YRS    POPULATION
1991 (i)     1991 (e)        1992        BMI=B
4      Choluteca               50.4         28.2   346,833           A
2      Comayagua               67.3         39.1   274,959           B
5      Copan                  62.0          49.7   257,695         A,B
3      Cortez                 45.8          25.9   770,858           A
1      El Paraiso             49.5          32.5   298,625           B
0      Fco Morazan            30.6          24.8   955,113         A,B
2      Intibuca               67.3          61.8   142,602          A
2      La Paz                 67.3          51.7   121,086           B
5      Lempira                62.0          61.5   201,510          A
5      Ocotepeque             62.0          41.6    84,942           B
7      Olancho                42.5          31.6   327,761          B
3      Santa Barbara          45.8          47.7   318,614         A,B
4      Valle                  50.4          28.6   147,320         A,B
Sources:  MOE, 1991 National Nutrition Census; MOH, 1991 National
Epidemiological and Health Survey; SECPLAN, R. Hernandez
Cruz, "Honduras: Population Projections 1988-2050",
April 1992.
it   For children aged 0-4 years, malnutrition rate is based on
weight for age, including light, moderate, and severe symptoms
of malnutrition. Health Region rates are applied to specific
departments. For children aged 6-9 years, attending the 1st
grade, chronic malnutrition is measured as -2 standard
deviations from the median height for age of the reference
population.



- 62 -                              Annex 5
REGIONAL ORGANIZATION
HONDURAS                          OF THE MOH
NUTRITION AND HBALTH PROJECT
REGIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
The organization of the MOH by Health Region does not exactly match the
country's departmental division, since it takes into account epidemiological
zones and accessibility. The approximate correspondence between the two sets
of geographic divisions is as follows:
HEALTH REGION           DEPARTMENT                    NUMBER
l________________ ____________________________I   MMUNICIPALITIES
0             Francisco Morazan                3 of 35
Metropolitan
1                 El Paraiso                   22 of 22
Francisco Morazan               28 of 35
2                 Comayagua                    28 of 28
Intibuca                   18 of 19
La Paz                    16 of 22
3                   Cortes                     16 of 16
Santa Barbara                 28 of 30
Yoro                      9 of 12
4                 Choluteca                    21 of 21
Francisco Morazan                4 of 35
La Paz                     6of 22
Valle                     11 of 11
5                   Copan                      24 of 24
Intibuca                    1 of 19
Lempira                    28 of 28
l_______________         Ocotepeque                   16  of  16
6                 Atlantida                     9 of 9
Colon                     11 of 11
Islas de la Bahia                4 of 4
Olancho                    1 of 24
l _______________           Yoro                       3   of    12
7                  Olancho                     23 of 24
8              Gracias a Dios                   2 of 2



- 63 -                                        Annex 6
PROJECT PERFORMANCE
HONDURAS                                    INDICATORS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
Activities           Start Date  End Date I  Unit  |  1993     1994  |  1995  |  Total
NUTRITION A8SISTANCE
Draft Nutrition Policy           03101/93   12/10/93 |        r                                 _____
Nutrition Action Plan            12/15/93   01/31/94
Nutrition Policy Implementation  02101/94   12/31/95   Percent                 50       100       100
FAP technical assistance         03/31/93   12/31/96   Percent       70        88       100       100
BMI beneficiaries                                       No.       85300   108000   124200   317500
BMJF beneficiaries                                      No.      123700   127400   131300   382400
Nutrition staff training         03/31193   12131/96  Trainees     1779      3565     5170    10604
Annual nutrition census                                 Date   02/15193 02/15/94 02/16/96
HEALTH SERVICES
Rehabilitation health centers    03131/93   12/31/96   Centers       32        49        49       130
Health centers built/equipped    03/31/93   12/31/95   Centers        0        15        15        30
Radio communication              03/31/93   12/31/95  Stations       10        1 5       15        40
Vehicles for supervision         03/31/93  06/30/93  Vehicles        21                            21
Health staff training courses:   03/31/93   12/31/95   Courses
Food coupon administration                                           7         4                  11
New staff                                                            8         3        3         14
Supervisory nurses                                                   a         3                   9
Auxiliary nurses                                                    10         4        2         16
Health promoters                                                     1                             1
Supervision of health centers    03/31/93   12/31/95    Visits      800      1000     1000      2800
Incremental staff hired:         03/31/93  03/31/95   No.staff
Physicians                                                          23         6        0        28
Nurses                                                              43         0       10        53
Auxiliary nurses                                                    88        30       50       168
Health promoters                                                    40         0        0        40
Nursing instructors                                                  6         0        0          6
Laboratory techniciens                                               5         0        0          5
MOH Project Unit                 01/31/93   12/31/95   No.staff       8         8         8         8
Procurement of medicines:
MOH/UNICEF agreement            03/31/93   12/31/95
GPO technical assistance        03131/93   12131/95
Annual procurement schedule                            Date   12/10/92 12/10/93 12/10/94
AIDS Program:
Action plan 1993-1995                      03/31/93
Financing plan 1993-1996                  03/31/93
Implementation                  03/31/93   12/31/95   Percent       30        75      100       100
Annual evaluation                                      Date   12/10/93  12/10/93  12/10/96
Implementation cost recovery system   03101/94   12/31/95   Percent            50      100



- 64  -                                         Annex 6
PROJECT PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
Activities            Start Date I End Date I  Unit      1993  |  1994  |  1996        Total
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
Water Supply                                             Localities      43         41        61        145
JUNTAs established                                        JUNTAS         43         41        61        145
Latrines built                                            Latrines     3100      2800      4100      10000
MOH supervision                                            Date              03/31/94 03/31/95
Medical waste manual               03/31/93   08/15/93
Staff training by department       09/16/93   12/31/95    Depts.           2         4         3          9
STUDIES
FAP institutional evaluation       03/31/93   11/30/93
FAP food coupon evaluation         03/31/93   12/10/95   Percent          60        75       100
Cost recovery of health services   03/31/93   12/10/93   Reports  11/15/93  11/15/94  11/15/96
Operations research in public health    05/31/93   11/15/95
HIV transmission via breast milk   03/31193   12/10/95
Private sector generic drugs supply    03/31/93   08/31/93
B. PROJECT OUTCOME INDICATORS
Key Impact Indicators               Target Groups in the Project Area and Baseline and Time
Countrywide                       Series
NUTRMON, HEALTH & POPULATION
Malnutrition prevalence (weight for age)             Children under 5                   1990  1993-1995
Stunting prevalence (height for age)                 School children aged 6-9 years
Infant mortality per 1,000 live births               Children under 1 year
Children mortality per 1,000 live births             Children under 5
Low birth weigh per 100,000 live births              Newborns
Maternal mortality per 100,000 live births           Women
Mortality due to diarrheal disease per 1,000 deaths  Children under 5; children 5-12; total
Percent births attended by health staff over total live births Total births
Percent households with potable water                Total households
Percent households with latrines/sewerage            Total households
Contraceptive prevalence (all methods)               Women aged 15-49 in union
Total fertility rate                                 Births per women
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Gross primary school enrollment                      Male and Female Children           1990  1993-1995
Net primary school enrollment                        Male and Female Children aged 6-12
Dropout rate                                         All primary school students
Repetition rate                                      All primary school students
AIDS
Percent HIV positive test results                    Risk group. and Total population by   1990  1993-1995
Prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases          sex, age, region
Number reported AIDS cases per 100,000 population    Total population by sex, age, region
Distribution AIDS cases by transmission mode         Total population by sex, age, region
Total population by sex, age, region



- 65 -                              Annex 7
ANNUAL PROJECT
HONDURAS             IMPLEM8NTATION REVIEWS
NUTRITION AND HRALTH PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIRWS
Obiectives
1.    The purposes of the annual project implementation reviews are to:  (i)
evaluate project performance during implementation; (ii) provide management
with immediate feed-back on project achievements as well as on areas needing
improvement; (iii) justify and orient eventual changes in project design; (iv)
document the status of project execution thoroughly for the benefit of the
Borrower and the financing agencies; and (v) assess compliance with the
Borrower's nutrition and health policies. Upon completion of each review, the
Borrower shall carry out or cause to carry out an action plan covering
corrective measures satisfactory to the Association.
General Agenda for Annual Project Imolementation Reviews
2.    Each review would include:  (i) a detailed analysis of the previous
year's performance, attainment of targets, utilization of budgetary
allocations, functioning of implementation arrangements, main implementation
issues and proposals to overcome them; (ii) review and approval of the work
plan, targets and budget for the following year; (iii) adjustments to project
design and implementation schedule; (iv) progress in the FAP food coupon
program evaluation study (which is part of the long-term nutrition policy
(item 3(a) below)), and status of funding for the FAP beyond the life of the
project; (v) procurement and credit disbursements; (vii) share of social
sector expenditures in the central government budget; and (viii) interim
evaluation of the AIDS control program.
Special Tonics for the First Annual Project Imolementation Review
3.    During the first annual project implementation review, analytical work
and policy discussions would be focused on the following topics:
(a)    Lone-Term Nutrition Policy including:  (i) discussion of a draft
long-term nutrition policy, agreement on an action plan and
financing plan for its implementation; and (ii) institutional
analysis of FAP and recommendations for adjustments to FAP's
food coupon programs that may emerge from such analysis;
(b)    Cost-Recovery for Health Services including:  (i) discussion of
the assessment of the existing cost recovery system; (ii)
recommendations for system improvement; and (iii) action plan to
implement improvements in the cost recovery system during the
1994-1995 period;
(c)    Cost-Recovery for Water Supplv and Sanitation Services including
technical and financial performance of the JUNTAS in ensuring
satisfactory operations and maintenance of systems built;
(d) Review of Social Sector Expenditures including: (i) discussion
of the analysis of social sector budget allocations and



- 66 -                              Annex 7
ANNUAL PROJECT
IMPTLEMNTATION REVIEWS
expenditures funded by the Japanese Grant Agreement dated Marc
14, 1991; and (ii) recommendations for adjustments in public
expenditures and budget procedures, including social sector
share of central government budget;
(e)    Amendment to the SIF Aareement for the administration of civil
works given prospects of termination (or extension) of the life
of the SIF in March 31, 1994;
(f)    Studies including:  (i) performance of pilot radio
communications stations and decision on possible expansion of
radio communications network; (ii) agreement on measures to be
taken regarding the supply of generic drugs by the private
sector; (iii) evaluation of the results of operations research
carried out by the Master Program in Public Health of the
National Autonomous University of Honduras and agreement of the
research project for the following year; and (iv)
recommendations for improvements in the procurement of drugs by
the MOH.
Special Topics for the Second Annual Proiect Implementation Review
4.    During the second project implementation review, analytical work and
policy discussions would be focused on the following topics:
(a)    Nutrition including:  (i) benefits accruing for the nutrition
education program; (ii) progress in the implementation of the
long-term nutrition policy and assessment of the inter-
relationships between the FAP food coupons program and other
forms of nutrition assistance;
(b)    Primary health care including:  (i) progress in adopting an
integrated primary health care model for service delivery; (ii)
action plan for the implementation of the recommendations from
the study on referral systems linking primary health care
facilities and hospitals based on or resulting from the study on
such systems carried out under Part D.1 of the Project;
(c)    Environmental Health including: (i) evaluation of the level of
protection of water sources and the quality of the water serving
the communities were water systems were built; (ii) introduction
of adequate medical waste disposal procedures in primary health
care facilities;
(d)    Social Sector Expenditures including a review of the adequacy of
central government budgetary allocations for the social sectors;
and,
(e)    Studies including an evaluation of the quality of the operations
research carried out by the Master Program in Public Health of
the National Autonomous University of Honduras and agreement of



- 67 -                              Annex 7
ANNUAL PROJECT
IMPLBMBNTATION RBVIBWS
the research project for the following year, under Part D.1 of
the Project.
Special Topics for the Third Annual Prolect Imolementation Review
5.    The third Project implementation review would focus on the evaluation of
the impacts of the project on nutrition and health status and on lessons
learned from project implementation. In addition, agreements would be reached
regarding the preparation of the project completion report by the Borrower.
Specifically, the following topics would be discussed:
(a)    Nutrition including: (i) observed trends in child and maternal
nutrition indicators in the project area and countrywide; (ii)
coverage of nutrition programs in relation to the population at
risk of malnutrition, by program and recommended adjustments to
program size and targeting criteria; (iii) special report on
beneficiaries that "graduate" from the FAP food coupons program
and (iv) priority nutrition assistance needs, including the FAP
food coupon program, for the 1996-1998 period;
(b)    Health including:  (i) observed trends in child and maternal
health indicators; (ii) quality of services delivered at primary
health care centers; (iii) performance of referral systems; (iv)
performance of plant and equipment maintenance; (v) performance
of cost recovery system for health services; (vi) special report
on the availability of basic drugs at PHC facilities nation-
wide; and (vii) priority needs for public health services during
the 1996-1998 period;
(c)    Environmental Health including: (i) status of operation and
repair of systems build under the project and performance of
cost recovery system; (ii) priority needs for water supply and
sanitation services in rural areas for the 1996-1998 period;
(d)    Study of HIV transmission through breast milk carried out under
Part A.1 of the Project, recommendations to ensure safety of
milk banks, and action plan to implement these recommendations;
(e)    Proiect Comoletion Report:  a work plan for the project
completion report, to be prepared by the Borrower, would be
discussed and agreed upon with IDA.
Organization
6.    Schedule.  The annual reviews consist of a period of about one week
during which project monitoring and evaluation data would be reviewed and
special topics requiring management action would be addressed in detail. The
annual review procedure consists of an initial period of approximately two
weeks when specialists contracted by the Borrower collect data and review
information assembled by the Borrower, focusing on technical, administrative,
and financial aspects of the project. Field visits to the project areas would
be part of this process. Following this fact-finding period, the review team
would analyze the information collected, review progress against original



- 68 -                              Annex 7
ANNUAL PROJECT
IMPLEMBNTATION REVIEWS
targets, and prepare a brief report highlighting strengths and weaknesses and
making recommendations for management action. The annual review team then
joins the project management to discuss its findings and recommendations, and
arrive at concrete agreements regarding targets to be reached and changes to
be made in project management and implementation. The Borrower's annual
review report would be presented at the annual review meetings, which would
take place not later than December 10 of each year. The action plan for the
following your would be presented by the Borrower to the Association by
January 31 of each year, and implementation actions recommended in the plan
would commence immediately thereafter, in accordance with the calendar
approved in each action plan.
7.    Review Team.  The composition of the mid-term review team should
include: (i) an engineer to review health and water supply and sanitation
infrastructure; (ii) a nutritionist to review the food coupons program, the
nutrition education program, and the implementation of the long-term
integrated nutrition assistance program; (iii) a public health specialist to
review progress in health indicators and quality of primary health care
service delivery, including application of an integrated primary health care
service model; (iv) a human resources specialist to review health staff
training and supervision programs; (v) a management specialist, with
experience in management information systems, financial analysis, and
procurement, to review the administrative and financial aspects of the
project; (vi) an economist with extensive experience in project impact
analysis, to review the impact of- the project based on a sample survey and
other data; and (vii) a statistician to assist in assembling and processing
data.
S.    Sources of Data.  The reviews would use data from administrative sources
routinely collected by the MOH, FAP, and the Ministry of Education; vital
statistics; national epidemiological and health surveys; national height/age
census of first year primary students; living standard measurement surveys;
and national multi-purpose household surveys. In addition, the reviews would
use special nutrition and health studies conducted by public and/or private
agencies, and a longitudinal study of a small sample of beneficiaries of the
BMI and the BMJF food coupons program, to be financed under the project.



-69 -                                Annex 8
IMPACT OF THE PRAF PROGRAMS
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
IMYACT OF THE PRAF FOOD COUPON PROGRAM
A.    On Healt
Table 1. PERCENT CHANGE IN CONSULTATIONS FOR 23 HEALTH CENTERS
PARTICIPATING IN THE BMI (1991 COMPARBD TO 1990)
CONSULTATION         URBAN CENTERS      RURAL CENTERS          TOTAL
BY CATEGORY               (e)                (e)                (e)
Children under < 5           132                171                 155
New Pregnancies             108                 11                 46
Old Pregnancies              99                 60                 79
Post-Childbirth              56                  6                 34
Family Planning               6                -25                 -8
TOTAL INFANT/MATERNAL          119                140                131
Source:      Eduardo S. Atalah, "Evaluaci6n del Proyecto Piloto - Bono
Materno Infantil en Honduras" (World Bank, September 1991).
B.    On Education
Table 2. PERCENT CHANGE IN ENROLLMENT. REPETITION. AND DROPOUT
RATES FOR 7 DEPARTMENTS PARTICIPATING IN THE BMJF
ENROLLMENT      REPETITION       DROPOUT
DEPARTMENT           (I)            ( )             (pi)
1990   1991   1990   1991   1990   1991
Copan               1.7    6.8    12.2   11.7    4.1    3.4
Cortes              1.3    4.0    11.6   11.0    2.5    4.0
Choluteca           1.4     5.2   13.5   12.3    4.8    4.3
Fco. Morazan        2.1     3.5   14.1   12.5    2.8    3.0
Intibuca           2.3    22.7   14.2   12.1    3.5    2.6
Lempira             1.4   27.2   13.9   13.4    3.4    2.1
Valle               1.8    11.7   12.6    9.9    4.2    2.8
TOTAL         1.7    11.6   13.1   11.8    3.6    3.2
Source:    Ministry of Education, February 1992.



- 70 -                              Annex 9
IMPROVEMENTS TO PRAF
HONDURAS                   UNDER THE PROJECT
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE PRAF FOOD COUPON PROGRAMS
TO BE IMPLSMENTED UNDER THE PROJECT
1.    The PRAF food coupon programs were evaluated by IDA on occasion of the
mid-term review of the FHIS-I Project. The evaluation found the programs
generally sound by made a number of recommendations for program improvements.
These recommendations were incorporated in the design of the proposed project
and are described below.
2.    Based on this initial success and considering the large unmet need for
nutrition assistance in Honduras, the Government now plans to expand the PRAF
food coupon program and is appealing to the donor community for financing.
Nation-wide, the potential needy beneficiaries of the PRAF food coupon program
are estimated at approximately 211,000 primary school children in grades 1-3
and 430,000 children under five and pregnant and lactating mothers at risk of
malnutrition. The Government is contemplating an expansion of the program
over a three year period under the proposed project, benefitting on average
255,000 poor children and pregnant and nursing mothers (Annex 11). Under this
plan, the two programs would reach from 25 percent at present to about 40
percent of their combined target population three years later.
3.    For this program to be successful, during the implementation of the
proposed project, the Government needs to: (i) increase PRAF's administrative
capacity; (ii) strengthen primary health care; (iii) strengthen primary
education; (iv) provide the required resources to sustain the program; and (v)
define a longer-term nutrition strategy aimed at ensuring the sustainability
of the food coupon program, its expansion on a national scale, and the
rationalization of food distribution programs, in a comprehensive, long-term
strategy to reduce malnutrition.
4.    Based on this review, the following recommendations are made to help
achieve these objectives:
(a)    Develop a long-term nutritional straterv.  The Government of
Honduras needs to develop a long-term nutrition assistance strategy
based on an evaluation of how the coupon programs could be sustained
over time, an analysis of the effects and longer term impacts of
nutrition assistance and income generating activities, and a
rationalization of different types of nutrition interventions to form a
comprehensive long-term nutrition program capable of promoting efficient
and technically and financially sustainable improvements in the
nutrition status of the Honduran population.
(b)    Improve PRAF's Administrative Capabilities.  The evaluation of
the pilot program, the USAID management audit of PRAF and an analysis of
PRAF's administrative practices and organization structure have shown
that PRAF needs to improve its administrative capacity to properly
manage the food coupon program. For this, the following priority
actions are recommended:
(i)       Strengthen the Food Coupon Distribution Network
through the use of private banks, in addition to the Central



- 71 -                              Annex 9
IMPROVEMENTS TO PRAF
UNDER THE PROJECT
Bank network at present, to transfer the coupons from the
Central Bank to local areas, where MOE and MOH local staff can
collect the coupons and distribute them to the final
beneficiaries;
(ii)      SimDlify and Standardize Eliuibility Criteria using
the malnutrition rates measured by the National School Nutrition
Census as targeting criteria for both the BMI and the BMJF; this
Census should be carried-out every year;
(iii)     Increase Freauencv of BMJF Coupon Distribution to more
than twice a year, to maximize its use for food purchase and
encourage school attendance, from 2 to 3 times per year;
(iv)      Strengthen PRAF's monitoring and evaluation caDacity
and carry-out impact evaluations. The PRAF should increase
efforts to evaluate the impact of the two food coupon programs
on nutrition, health and school performance indicators. In
addition, household surveys should be undertaken to determine
the impact of the food coupons on family expenditures;
(v)       Strengthen PRAP's auditing function.  The PRAF needs
to ensure full transparency of the program through more frequent
and better auditing. It is recommended that PRAF establish an
internal auditing unit and contract with external auditors the
concurrent audit of its accounts and programs;
(vi)      Imurove coordination with oarticipating agencies.  In
order to improve program efficiency, PRAF will need to establish
better coordinating mechanisms with participating institutions,
including the Central Bank, private banks, the MOH, MOE and
merchant groups;
(vii)     Contract additional technical staff to fill key
functions such as legal counsel, financial analysis, monitoring
and evaluation, auditing, inter-agency coordination, and invest
in additional computer and office equipment;
(viii)    Imnrove the Amolication of the Bligibility Criteria.
For both the BMI and the BMJF, the beneficiary selection process
should be improved and an appeals system established for
families who believe that they are unjustly excluded from either
program. The malnutrition rate measured annually by the
Nutrition School Census should be used to determine the
eligibility of new first graders to participate in the BMJF
program. Likewise, the same census provides malnutrition rates
by municipality and these should be used by the MOH to determine
priority municipalities for the BMI expansion. Within high
priority municipalities, the MOH should select the poorest
villages within the catchment area of health centers for
participation in the BMI. To reduce the occurrence of ad hoc
rationing in the BMI, community members should be more formally
involved in the inscription process to ensure that mothers and
children not residing in the selected villages do not
participate. In addition, to ensure that all qualified
beneficiaries may participate, the PRAF, in coordination with



- 72 -                              Annex 9
IMPROVEMNTS TO PRAF
UNDER THE PROJECT
the MOH should allocate additional coupons to be issued only
where the situation demands it. Finally, in order to ensure
more equitable distribution of the coupon benefits, the PRAF's
information system should control for double registration in
both the BMJF and BMI programs in the municipalities of three
departments where both programs operate simultaneously; where
double coverage occurs, preference should be given to continue
the BMI program.
(ix)      Establish procedures for re-certification of
beneficiaries (or exit criteria). PRAF food coupon
beneficiaries are selected for one-year benefits. A necessary
complement to this regulation is the establishment of procedures
in the Operations Manual of PRAF to review beneficiary
certification at the beginning of each year. The following exit
criteria will be included in the PRAF Operational Manual
concerning:
The BMI: [a] mothers who are no longer pregnant or nursing
children aged less than 6 months; [b] children who become 5
years old; and [c] mothers and children who no longer
inhabit poor neighborhoods and villages;
The BMJF: [a] children who drop out of school; lb] children
who are promoted to the 4th grade of primary school; and [c]
children who transfer to schools not covered by the BMJF
program.
(x)       Sustain the purchasing oower of the couoon.  In real
terms, the value of the assistance provided by the PRAF food
coupons has been declining as a result of the declining
purchasing power of the coupon which has a fixed nominal value
in Lempiras. Thus, consideration should be given to
periodically adjusting the value of the food coupon in order to
maintain the desired level of subsidy of the household food
budget. Adjustment of the food coupon value, to safeguard its
purchasing power relative to the date of appraisal of the
project in July 1992, would be made in accordance with annual
reviews of the fluctuations of the Honduran consumer price
index. Adjustment measures may include either emission of
smaller denomination coupons or redefinition of the standard
coupon denomination.
(xi)      ExDand coverage in rural areas.  All future expansion
of the BMI should occur in rural areas, where approximately 75
percent of the target population lives.
(c)    Strengthen Primary Health Care Services.  The experience with
the BMI program has highlighted the need for improvement of health
service delivery by the MOH as well as better organization of the coupon
distribution. There is need to increase the capacity of health centers
to respond adequately to the increasing demand for health services
generated by the food coupon program. An estimated 70 percent of the
health centers are in a state of disrepair and should be rehabilitated.
Some are too small and need to be expanded. There is also a need for a



73 -                              Annex 9
IMPROVEMENTS TO PRAF
UNDER THE PROJECT
modest expansion of the network in the poorest regions, to serve the
currently isolated population groups. In addition, there is lack of
medicines and supplies, basic equipment and insufficient staffing,
particularly trained nurses, auxiliary nurses, and health promoters.
Auxiliary health staff need additional training to properly identify
pregnancy and malnutrition risks. Besides improvement of physical
plant, equipment materials and pharmaceutical supplies, the MOH should:
(i)       Allocate additional staff at the regional. area. and
local levels and strengthen human resources in key central
functions. The composition and quantity of additional health
staff should be determined based on actual productivity and
taking into account expect increases in the demand for health
services generated by the food coupon program; in addition, the
MOH should improve the ratio of nurses per doctor, and
supervisory nurses per auxiliary nurse in the project area;
(ii)       Establish Staff Training Programs.  MOH staff
participating in the program, including doctors, supervisors,
professional nurses, auxiliary nurses and health promoters
should receive on-the-job training designed to improve the
quality of service delivered by all staff categories. These
training programs should focus on maternal and child care,
epidemiological surveillance, patient risk assessment, planning
and administration of health services at the local level, health
education, family planning, nutrition education, monitoring and
evaluation, and community participation. Special care should be
given to integrate the operation of the BMI with the delivery of
primary health care services at the local level;
(iii)      Strengthen staff suoervision.  Training and
performance should be systematically reinforced by periodic
supervision of health personnel performance at the local level.
A system of staff performance review should be created and
linked to salary incentives;
(iv)       Imxrove Organization of Coupon Distribution to Final
Beneficiaries. To reduce waiting time in the health centers,
local MOH staff should respect the Ministry's consultation norms
and monthly visits should not be required of healthy children
and mothers. The BMI coupon distribution process needs to be
standardized and streamlined to improve patient flow.
Furthermore, the coupon should be distributed immediately
following the completion of the required check-up, and the
mother should not have to return a second time or wait several
hours to receive the coupon. To reduce the time demands on
health center staff, community volunteers should be recruited to
help in coupon distribution; and
(v)        Increase Coordination between PRAF and MOH.  The level
of adequate administrative support from the PRAF to the Ministry
of Health should be increased.
(d)    Strengthen Primary Education.  The BMJF made evident the need
for complementary actions on the part of the MOE to enhance the impact



- 74 -                              Annex 9
IMPROVEMSNTS TO PRAF
UNDER THE PROJECT
of the food coupon program on primary school enrollment and efficiency.
Efforts in this direction have started, as the Honduran Social
Investment Fund (FHIS) has financed 857 primary and pre-primary school
projects during 1990-91, including school rehabilitation, expansion, and
new facilities. The FHIS also supported another 172 education projects
involving repair and construction of school furniture. Additional
efforts by the MOE will be required to ensure that the increased
enrollment generated by the food coupon program will not exceed teacher
capacity, and that primary schools have the supplies and the physical
conditions to accommodate the added students.



75 -annex 10
PRAF TARGETING CRITERIA
HONDURAS                       AND EXPANSION
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
PRAP FOOD COUPONS PROGRAMS: TARGETING CRITERIA AND EXPANSION PLAN
Criteria for Taraetina Benefits:
Women Head of     Children enrolled in grades 1-3 of primary education
Household Coupon  who are at risk of malnutrition.  Expansion of this
Program (BMJF):   subprogram will cover children entering the first
grade of primary school as identified by the MOE
annual nutrition census (height/age) in eight
departments. In addition, at participating schools
where the results of the annual nutrition census show
an incidence of malnutrition equal or higher than 60%,
all first grade entrants would be considered
beneficiaries of the BMJF.
Maternal Child    Children under five years of age, pregnant mothers,
Coupon Program    and mothers nursing children aged less than 6 months,
(BMI):            in the poorest villages at municipalities where
average malnutrition index is above 40% as measured by
school nutrition census in six departments with the
highest average malnutrition index.
Nutrition         The project would finance the nutrition censuses of
Census:           children aged 6-9 years old enrolled in the first
grade of primary schools nationwide. The MOE would
carry out these census under the supervision of the
SCES.
COVERAGE:         The BMI expansion will take place only in those
municipalities where there is no program for
distributing food in kind, and no BMJF food coupon
program.
Table 1.  NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES BY SUBPROGRAM BY YEAR
PROJECT YEARS
SUBPROGRAM   CURRBNT      (%)      1993     1994  T1995  1  TOTALL (%)
BNJF           120,118        68  123,722  127,425  131,250   382,400        55
BMI             57,535        32   85,335  108,056  124,190   317,581        45
TOTAL       177,653       100  209,060  235,481  255,440   699,981    100
Table 2.  TOTAL COST BY SUBPROGRAM & BY YEAR (US$ 000)
PROJECT YEARS
SUBPROGRAM  :  1993       1994       1995      TOTAL   _
BNJF           4,949      5,097      5,250    15,296        43
BMi            3,951      5,003      5,750    14,704        57J
TOTAL      8,900    10,100    11,000    30,000         100



- 76 -                             Annex 10
PRAF TARGETING CRITERIA
AND EXPANSION
Table 3. UNIT COSTS BY SUBPROGRAM. YEAR. AND BENEFICIARY
[   COSTS   ILI   BMJF      |           BMI
COSTS              L   | _US$  |                L       US$  |__
Subsidy "                  200.00    37.04    93        240.00    44.44   96
Emission 2/                   3.20     0.59     1         3.84     0.71    2
Administration 3/            12.80     2.37     6         6.16     1.14    2
TOTAL Q            216.00    40.00   100       250.00    46.30  100
| Distribution per year                4                          12
Coupons per Year                      10                          12
The denomination of the coupons is L20 (US$3.70) and would be adjusted
in case the consumer price index in Honduras changes by 30% or more.
Estimated as follows:  number of coupons per year x LO.12 to cover
printing costs, plus 1 of the cost of the subsidy to cover banking
costs.
For the BMJF food coupon program, administrative costs would increase by
about four times, due to an increase from two to four in the number of
times the coupons are distributed per year.
For both programs, the average overhead cost is estimated at 5.7%,
including emission and administration costs. For a three-year expansion
plan these costs are estimated as follows:  BMJF (7.41V * US$15.3
million = US$1.13 million); BMI (4.0* * US$14.7 million = US$0.59
million); total (US$1.72 million/US$30.0 million = 5.73%).
Table 4. FINANCING PLAN
(US$ 000)
SOURCE                          PROJECT YEARS
FINANCING          1993      1994     1995      TOTAL  | e
GOH                      1,142    2,642    3,716    7,500        25.0
IDA                     3,000    2,000    1,000    6,000         20.0
USAID                    1,000    1,000    1,000    3,000        10.0
WFP                     3,758    4,458    1,784   10,000         33.3
OTHER DONORS                 0         0    3,500    3,500       12.0
(UNIDENTIFIED)                                                        l
TOTAL       T    8,900 | 10,100   11,000 T 30=000    =0lo 



- 77  -                                         annex  11
PRAF ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Presidency
Executive
Director
Executive                                                            Internal
Committee                                                             Auditor
Procurement  --- -.. . .......                                      Legal Advisorl
Committee                                                         Edvisor
Public                                                            Technical
Relations   |----  --       -------------- .                         Advisor
Monitoring &                                   Fnance                           Administration
Evaluation                                   Director                             Dirctor
Director
[vatl1*don     MIS        Cfl~ ontrAccount-                Budget      Trasur          Personnel    Gnal
Food Coupon                         occupational               Schol-Bag 
Training                 Director
Directr                         | Director
BMI        bMJF        Marketing



- 78 -                             Annex 12
NUTRITION EDUCATION
HOINDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
NUTRITION EDUCATION
1.    Obiectives.  This component aims to train health personnel and community
volunteers to ensure that they know the practical and theoretical skills
necessary to ensure adequate diet for the pregnant woman, exclusive breast-
feeding during the first six months of life and an adequate complementary diet
for the child less than two years old. This component is a basic element of
the practical focus of integrated mother-child care that the MDH is now
promoting. Its implementation will help improve the nutritional condition of
the mother and child during a critical period of their lives, which will
reduce the risk of morbidity and morality associated with malnutrition, and
will improve the health of women of reproductive age.
2.    Target GrouD.  The direct beneficiaries of the proposed measures are
approximately 128,000 pregnant women and 112,000 children under two years of
agree in health regions 3, 4, 5, and Metropolitan.) In addition,
approximately 5,000 people would be trained in appropriate feeding practices,
including an estimated 685 health personnel, 5,250 community workers and 1,600
nutrition counselors. Health personnel will benefit from training in the use
of natural and inexpensive nutritional technology, and public health
institutions will save by spending less on artificial milk, bottle-feeding,
medicine, and having fewer visits for morbidity.
3.    Description.  As part of the Health and Nutrition Project, this
component will finance a nutrition education program with emphasis on nursing
mothers. The contents of the training program would include: (a) nutrition
requirements of pregnant women; (b) nutrition requirements of nursing mothers;
(c) appropriate breast-feeding practices; (d) appropriate weaning practices;
(d) nutrition requirements of young children; (e) importance of micronutrient
supplements; (f) use of contraceptives; and (g) appropriate maintenance of
equipment. All these areas would be covered in the training program described
below.
(a)    Training health Dersonnel including doctors, professional
nurses, auxiliary nurses, health promoters, community volunteers, and
hospital managers and administrators through: (i) the preparation and
execution of a training plan for health region three and Metropolitan
and later for regions 4 and 5, including the new hospitals and all
centers at other levels of care with a strong component on work
methodology with community participation; (ii) creation of two (2)
training centers at the level of the two national hospitals, in which
health personnel and the graduates in residency receive the training
necessary in hospital practices and clinical management of lactating
mothers; (iii) staffing the hospitals and health centers of four health
regions to carry out the support breast-feeding and early childhood
nutrition activities; and (iv) preparing and introduction of teaching
modules in breast-feeding in the study program of the Faculty of Medical
Sciences. Health personnel training will include information on the use
and the importance of contraceptive practices during the post-natal
As defined in Annex 5.



-79 -                              Annex 12
NUTRITION EDUCATION
period, to achieve and adequate spacing between pregnancies, which will
contribute to maintained the mother and child in satisfactory
nutritional conditions.
(b)    Supervision and evaluation which will permit documenting the
experience in the process of developing the nutrition education and
breast-feeding component at the community and institutional levels, and
evaluate the completion of the "Ten Steps Toward a Happy Natural Infant
Feeding" recommended by the World Health Organization and UNICEF in the
public hospitals, in order that they are used as feed-back; and
(c)    Operations research, focusing on a study of HIV transmission
through mother's milk, which would be used as an element to support the
development nutritional education activities, breast-feeding and control
of the quality of hospital milk banks.
4.    Implementation.  The component will be executed by the Ministry of
Public Health in collaboration with a specialist in NGO, the Breast-Feeding
League of Honduras (BFLH) and UNICEF, over a 3-year period under a technical
assistance agreement satisfactory to IDA. Activities will begin in Regions 3
and Metropolitan (1993-95), followed by Regions 4 and 5 (1994-95). Under
parallel financing, carried out through the same NGO, training will be
expanded to the village level through a national system of breast-feeding
counselors and to support adequate feeding practices for mothers, infants and
small children under age 2. This parallel program also contemplates the
creation of a Center for Orientation and Documentation in breast-feeding.
This center will contribute to the training and up-dating of health personnel,
share practical information with the public and in particular with lactating
mothers, supporting exclusively breast-feeding and adequate weaning practices,
and contributing to the formulation of a national strategy for nutrition and
maternal lactation. Parallel financing will provided by USAID and UNICEF.
5.    Estimated Costs.  The cost of this component is estimated at US$0.9
million, including contingencies, as follows:
1993        1994        1995         Total
A. Training        44.5         69.6        37.0        151.1
B. Equipment      191.0        111.5        0.0         302.5
C. Tech.Ast.       68.6         94.3        73.3        236.2
D. Salaries        53.0         52.5        29.4        135.0
Total      357.1       363.0        208.4       928.5
6.    The proposed IDA credit would finance US$0.8 million and the Government
US$0.1 million. IDA financing for salaries would be on a declining basis, as
follows: 100% of local expenses in the first year, 75* of local expenses in
the second year, and 30% of local expenses thereafter.



- 80 -                             Annex 13
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS
HONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS
The Primary Infrastructure ComDonent
1.    The obiectives of the component are to:  (a) improve quality in the
delivery of rural health services; (b) obtain operational benefits from
adequate physical facilities; and (c) contribute to the development of a
comprehensive primary health and nutrition program to reach the poorest
population living in rural communities.
2.    Criteria for Selection of PHC Centers.  The selection criteria awards
priority to the rehabilitation of existing centers. This criteria is based on
pressing rehabilitation needs and economic reasons. Rehabilitation has lower
initial and incremental operating costs than new construction. Specifically,
the criteria for selection of centers are the following:
(a)    Rehabilitation:  (i) existing centers at departments where the
BMI program is expanded (BMI project area, Annex 5); (ii) rehabilitation
works should not exceed an limit equivalent to US$10,000 per center,
except in justified cases; (iii) those center that are out of operation
due to poor physical condition; and (iv) those located in depressed
areas with high morbidity and malnutrition. In cases that the BMI
program is absent, the remaining criteria will prevail.
(b)    New centers: location would be determined as follows:  (i) in
priority areas in which the BMI program plans to expand; (ii) in a
catchment area of around 1,500 to 3,000 people: and (iii) at a minimum
distance to the nearest health center of 5 to 10 km.
(c)    For either new works are for rehabilitation, the proposed
solution would be the least cost solution or the only alternative.
3.    Description.  The component includes:
(a)    the rehabilitation of about 130 PHC facilities;
(b)    the construction of 30 new CESARs;
(c)    medical, radio and laboratory equipment to properly
operate these facilities;
(d)    a fund for routine maintenance of buildings, equipment and
vehicles to be established and capitalized by the MOH for use at
the Health Region level;
(e)    feasibility study of a radio communications network, test with
10 stations, and subsequent expansion with an additional 30
stations; and
(f)    vehicles (16) to facilitate supervision of operation of PHC
services.



-8S1A- _nex 13
PRIMARY HEALTH CARS CR1IBRS
Cost of the Comwonent
4.    The component cost is estimated at US$3.4 million as of june 30, 1990
prices with price contingencies. The cost is based on updated prices in list
of quantities of 32 final rehabilitation designs in the metropolitan area and
in the departments of Valle and Copan. The estimated cost includes 10* for
engineering and administration costs, 10* for physical contingencies in civil
works and 5% in medical and laboratory equipment. Community participation was
estimated at 9% of the cost of construction and includes the cost of fences,
some painting work and minor repairs.
Proiect Preparation
5.    At appraisal, 32 centers had final designs and are programmed for
construction in 1993. A preliminary selection of sites was done to
rehabilitate 70 additional centers and continue with field surveys and
designs. The selection of about 20 new centers has also been preliminarily
selected. A prototype of a new CESAR with about 100 square meters to house
two clinics is under design. A list of medical, radio communications and
laboratory equipment has been prepared to equip the centers under the project.
Proiect ImDlementation
6.    The component would be implemented by the Project Unit with the
assistance of the Programa Nacional de Servicios de Salud (PRONASSA).
PRONASSA is a vertical unit of the NOH in charged of the construction and
repair of hospital and primary health facilities. It also supplies medical
equipment to hospitals. Presently, PRONASSA carries out an investment program
under IDB and AID financing. These programs have contributed to improve
PRONASSA's operational performance in construction management and supervision.
7.    A civil engineer from the MOH Project Unit is acting as coordinator to
prepare the component. The duties of the coordinator would be to: (a)
identify and select the centers in accordance with established criteria; (b)
appraise the physical condition of centers for rehabilitation; (c) supervise
the design work by private consultants; (d) prepare annual plans for design
and construction; (d) coordinate activities between FHIS and the Health
Regions; (e) prepare and review specification and list of quantities for
construction contracts; and (f) plan in advance operational conditions so that
the centers undergoing rehabilitation may continue providing services during
construction.
8.    The component would be implemented over a period of three years.  Plans
are underway to execute work during 1993 for rehabilitation of the first 32
centers in the metropolitan area and departments of Valle and Copan. The
remaining works would be implemented in 1994 and 1995. The MDH intends to
retain the services of FHIS as an intermediary to administer a great portion
of the civil work contracts. The remaining initiatives would be carried out
by PRONASSA when the activities of FHIS phased out.
9.    FHIS tarticipation.  The MDH would enter into an agreement with PHIS to
delegate in FHIS the administration of part of the civil works under this
component. This agreement is presently under negotiation between the parties
and scheduled to be signed as a condition of credit effectiveness. PHIS would



- 82 -                             Annex 13
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS
charge a 3% fee on the delegated portion of the component cost. The 3%
administrative fee that would be charged by FHIS to the MOH corresponds to the
average supervision cost for social infrastructure subprojects, recorded under
the FHIS-I project. It would work out in close collaboration with the Project
Unit and the Health Regions. In the event that FHIS be phased out in 1994,
the MOH project unit, through PRONASSA, would assume full responsibility in
managing the contracts for the remaining civil works.
10.   Community Participation.  The component would have community support
mainly in preventive maintenance of physical facilities. The promotion work
would point to the creation of a community fund for preventive maintenance.
About 25 promoters would work exclusively in promoting project activities,
including maintenance of PHC facilities, health education, water supply and
sanitation and the food program. A 2-month course for about 40 promoters
would be launched on October 1992 so that they would be in the field before
the proposed IDA credit becomes effective.
11.   Annual Reviews.  IDA and the MOH would perform annual reviews of the
program. At these occasions. MOH would adjust the work program to fit with
the integrated criteria of delivery services and with lessons learned during
the previous year. The choice of initiating works for new centers or
expanding the rehabilitation of existing centers would be made at the time of
the annual review. The construction of new centers would be conditioned to
the improvement in the delivery of health services in the primary system.



- 83 -                             Anln 14
HUMAN RBSOURCBS
1iQIEMA                   DEVELOPMNWT OF MNM
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT OF THE NOH
I.    Obiectives
1.    The Government's health sector policy (Annex 18) has, as one of its main
objectives, the improvement of the quality and efficiency of primary health
services. To achieve this objective, the MOH gives high priority to the
development of human resources for the sector and stresses the importance of
appropriate deployment of personnel within the MOH structure, according to
need and skill-profile. Based on this policy directive, this component would
help improve primary health services through:
(a)    strengthening of the Planning Department and the Human Resources
Division at the central level;
(b)    promoting the technical and administrative development of health
personnel in the project area;
(c)    strengthening supervision of basic health services.
II. Description
2.    Strengthening of the Planning Office and the Human Resources Division
3.    The MOH has adopted the policy of administrative decentralized for the
provision of basic health services, with special emphasis on the local health
systems. At the central level, the implementation of this policy requires the
administrative modernization of key units, particularly of the Planning
Department, and improvement of their planning capacity to institutionalize the
reform and introduce new functions at the central, regional and local levels.
Administrative decentralization also requires that the MOH Human Resources
Division develop the necessary leadership capacity to carry out the planning
process for the allocation of human resources in accordance with the new
policy.
4.    The Human Resources Division is responsible for coordinating all
personnel planning, development, monitoring, training, supervision and
evaluation activities in the 8 health regions. Coordination of these
activities should occur at both the central and the regional levels in order
to incorporate in the training and supervision plans and strategies a solution
to problems and specific requirements of basic health services at the local
levels.
5.    In response to these needs, the proposed project aims at:  (i)
strengthening the planning and administrative functions at central level; (ii)
carrying out in-service training and supervision of human resources; (iii)
developing analytical capabilities to improve planning and allocation of human
resources using appropriate information systems as basis for decision-making
and improvement of the institutional coordination mechanisms.



- 84 -                             Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
6.    The strategies that would be used to achieve these goals comprise:
(a)    recruitment of additional staff to strengthen the Planning
Department and the Human Resources Division;
(b)    organization of seminars on methodological development in
planning, programming, and budgeting;
(c)    preparation of special studies on human resources development in
the project areas, aiming particularly at gathering information
on staff selection criteria, distribution, productivity, and
quality of care provided;
(d)    organization of working groups for critical analysis of the
studies and preparation of new proposals;
(e)    provision of technical assistance to improve the analytical
capability and the use of computerized information systems;
(f)    organization of workshops to develop methodological strategies
for the leaders of the training and supervision process at the
central and regional levels.
B.    Technical and Administrative DeveloDment of Health Personnel in the
Proiect Areas
7.    The oblectives of the in-service training to be provided by the proposed
project are to: Ci) strengthen the administration of basic health services in
the health regions; (ii) improve the technical capability of health personnel
as to the content and strategies to be applied in the provision of basic
health care services, with emphasis on maternal and child care, family
planning, nutrition, epidemiology, pharmacology, environmental sanitation and
endemic diseases prevention programs in order to provide more timely and
better quality services; (iii) integrate the BMI food coupon program with the
activities of the maternal and child care, nutrition and community education
programs; (iv) train health professionals in social participation and
communication strategies between users and providers; (v) broaden knowledge
and improve supervision techniques of the local and regional level staff
through interdisciplinary training teams that would assist in identifying
training needs, encouraging productivity, improving the quality of services
and promoting on the job learning; (vi) develop service programs in the
project area that address priority local health problems identified during the
supervision process.
8.    The staff to be trained would be that allocated to the project area,
comprising: (i) in the CESAMOs (health centers with a physician) an estimated
100 general physicians responsible for health care, administration and
supervision; and an estimated 100 professional nurses responsible for health
care, administration and supervision; (ii) in the CESARs (rural health
centers) an estimated 500 auxiliary nurses responsible for basic health
services and some 160 health promoters in charged of environmental health
development and community organization.



* 85 -                            Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
9.    The training oroqram proposed comprises, in the first year of the
proposed project, the following training events: 6 orientation sessions for
new staff (2 of them for professional level staff and 4 for auxiliary nurses),
5 training sessions for professional staff on administration of the BMI
program; 6 training sessions for professional staff responsible for
supervision at the regional and area levels; 3 training sessions for auxiliary
nurses on appropriate use of drugs, and one training course for health
promoters. In addition to the formal training events auxiliary nurses and
supervision teams would participate in training activities through monthly
meetings that would be organized at the seat of the health areas and regions.
Taking into account the MOH policy of administrative decentralization, the
responsibility for staff training would be assigned to the health regions.
10.   The methodolocv proposed for in-service training aims at promoting the
better linkages between the training program and the health needs specific to
each particular region. Regional health needs would be identified through
health situation analyses and manifested demand from local health staff that
would take place during supervision, thus promoting the integration of in-
service training with the supervision process ("supervision capacitante"). It
is expected that this approach would improve the contents of both in-service
training and supervision. Specifically, the monthly meetings of the
supervising teams with the auxiliary nurses would provide the occasion for
join analysis of training need and for the periodical changes in the training
contents in response to changing local health conditions.
11.   The proposed contents of the training program, developed on the basis of
the analysis of identified needs for the metropolitan regions 4 and 5, are the
following:
(a)    Orientation session for Drofessional staff to familiarize the
new staff with the organization and administration of health
services and the strategies adopted by the health system to
respond to the regions' health problems; the subjects for the
professional group include the structure and organization of the
health system, planning and administration of services,
strategies to achieve efficiency, efficacy and quality in the
provision of services, the comprehensive care approach, the role
of epidemiology, and the programs for the priority groups with
emphasis in the maternal-child health care;
(b)    Orientation session for auxiliary nurses covering: organization
of the national health system, the administrative responsibility
in the different levels of care, the CESAR as a component of the
local health system, the functions and activities of assistant
personnel within a CESAR, the health-disease process and
identification of priority groups for the care process,
identification and prioritization of risk factors for each
priority group and the epidemiology surveillance system, child
health and growth and development care, immunization, food and
nutrition. Comprehensive care for women, the reproductive and
obstetric risks, contraceptive methods, pregnancy control, food
and nutrition during and after birth. Social participation
strategies and health education programs.



- 86 -                             Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
(c)    Orientation session for SUoervisorv teams.  The contents of
which were prepared on the basis of the evaluation of the health
actions undertaken in 1991, of training needs identified by the
professionals and based on the conclusion of a supervision
workshop carried out in April 1992 with those responsible for
supervision in the BMI pilot areas. The session would focus on:
(1) diaano.is of the health situation, identification of health
profiles for different population groups, analysis of the
relationship between priority groups, services to be provided
and the assignment of resources, epidemiological monitoring and
surveillance, the risk approach in maternal-child care, the
interventions made and the respective responses; (2) service
administration, including programming and administration of the
maternal child care and BMI food coupon activities; (3) risk
determination and related to control actions in the women's
program, with special emphasis on the detection and control of
sexually transmitted diseases with an indication to the
physicians regarding the need of examination for the early
detection of uterine cervical cancer (which corresponds to 80O
of the cancer cases in women in Honduras) and tuberculosis,
which tends to increase rapidly as a result of the spread of
AIDS; in addition, there will be discussions on the service's
organization measures for AIDS detection activities whose
heterosexual characteristics spreads the disease to the
maternal-child group; (4) communitv education, covering aspects
related to disease control, prevention and community
participation; (5) methods of supervision including strategies
and programming, monitoring and evaluation, communication and
interaction with users and continuing education strategies will
be presented and discussed at the monthly meetings; emphasis
will be giving to communication and interaction between health
providers and users that would require a special commitment from
the supervisory team to change the present practices of ill
treatment, which is one of the reasons for low service demand.
(d)    In-service training for auxiliary nurses.  Training will take
place in the project area with support from the MOH central
level staff, and under the direct responsibility of the regional
supervisors. The contents for the woman and child programs are
practically the same as those for the supervisors with special
emphasis on the prevention and control techniques that can be
carried out at the assistant level. with respect to women's
care, it will be insisted that patients showing signs and
symptoms that may lead to suspect uterine cervical cancer or
AIDS be referred to the CESAMO. The training content gives
priority to conunuity education with respect to the area's
serious health problems and includes social participation and
local participation program modalities. Auxiliary nurses would
also receive specific training on appropriate handling and
rational use of drugs to respond to problems identified at the
CESAR level both on the administrative management and the
provision of drugs to patients, and would be advised of
environmentally safe disposal of waste.



- 87 -                             Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
(e)    Training session on administration of the BMI for health staff.
The content of this session oriented toward CESAMO Directors,
physicians and professional nurses covering the objectives of
the BMI within the context of the project, and the procedures,
programming and distribution of the food coupons in the health
centers. The Planning Department is currently revising the
manual and the text used in the BMI pilot project stage in
collaboration with PRAF.
(f)    Course for health oromoters.  The objective of this course is to
train, over a period of 60 days, 40 health promoters that will
support the implementation of the rural water supply and
sanitation component and other community organization actions of
the proposed project. The course presents specific techniques
for community organization, basic sanitation including solid
waste disposal systems, water supply, installation and
maintenance of water pumps, operation and maintenance of water
systems and latrines, epidemiology principles and vector
control, food control, development of community maps, and
planning of sanitation and supply activities.
C. Strengthening of the Suoervision System
12.   The purpose of strengthening the supervision system is to improve
efficiency and quality in staff performance. The MOH will strengthen the
supervision process especially at the local and area levels through mechanisms
that integrate supervision to the training process and strategic surveillance
of health services.
13.   The supervision model prepared by the MOH will be implemented with the
revisions and changes made by the different regions with respect to the
specific problems of each area and the needs derived thereof. The model
translates into two basic supervision instruments for each region: one for
supervising CESARs and one for supervising CESAMOs. The training-supervision
approach adopted by the MOH aims at (i) the control of the technical-
administrative activities and, (ii) through the priority problem
identification technique, the development of the analytical and interpretation
capability of the health situation to reevaluate goals, strategies and
established norms and their relation and adjustment to the identified needs.
14.   Supervision would be carried out in two phases: the first one includes
the field supervision practice itself; the second would take place through the
monthly meetings among supervisors and those supervised during which
programming and execution would be examined; problems would be discussed and
decisions would be made, guidelines would be prepared and there would be
participation in a continuing education process.
15.   The content of this process, that will be monitored through the
supervision practice itself, is described in the "Proposal for Training
Supervisors" prepared by the MOH and available in the project file.
Similarly, as part of the educational responsibility of the local level
supervisor, the content related to the training of auxiliary nurses would be
developed by the supervisor during the monthly meetings with the help of



- 88 -                             Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
manuals and supplemented with individualized study in the participating health
centers.
16.   Each region would present its annual and quarterly supervision plans in
which the components of the general plan will be included, establishing
activity priorities based on problems or priority needs.
17.   The health regions, divided into health areas and localities, will
program: (a) the supervision visits by CESAMO (8 visit days per year) and
CBSAR (12 visit days per year); (b) the monthly meetings in the health regions
for area supervisors; and (c) the monthly meetings in the area headquarters
for auxiliary nurses. At the same time, the MOH central level staff would
make visits every three months to the region, area or locality to monitor and
evaluate the supervision process in accordance with the priority of the
following service program components: (i) comprehensive care; (ii) health
services and SBI administration; (iii) continuing education; and (iv)
community participation. The results would be discussed with the regional
level staff responsible for supervision and would be communicated to the
corresponding divisions at the central level to feedback decisions on health
policies, the standardization process and the surveillance system.
18.   Proopsed Sunervision Scheme for the Local Level.  Each CESAR would
receive 12 supervision days per year and would send one auxiliary nurse to the
monthly supervision meetings. The second auxiliary nurse allocated to the
C-SAR would remain at the center so as not discontinue services provision.
The auxiliary nurse participating in the meeting would be responsible for
coimunicating to his colleague the work content and proposals. The two
auxiliary nurses would alternate at attending the monthly meetings and the
supervisor would ensure that communication mechanisms between them function
well, through monitoring actions at the CESAR and at the monthly meetings.
For CESARs where only one auxiliary nurse works, participation in the
meetings would depend upon arrangements being made by the area director to
provide a substitute for the day's work.
19.   The monthly sutervision meetinas for auxiliarv nurses would focus on
assessing performance of the following activities: i) analysis of activity
reports and CESAR production data; (ii) detection of needs in relation to the
available resources; (iii) coverage problems; (iv) care, disease prevention
and control problems; (v) analysis of the community education program and
self-administered community projects with health proposals; and (vi) training
activities in which the proposed content in the training program for auxiliary
nurses is itemized. At the monthly sunervision meetings for the area
sunervision teams, at the region level, the following activities would take
place: (i) analysis of the problems detected in the areas; (ii) planning of
supervision activities on the basis of identified problems; and (iii)
identification of training activities that complement the training session for
supervisory staff.



-89 -                              Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
20.   Strategies for Staff Technical-Administrative Development and for
Strengthening of the Suwervision Process. The basic strategies proposed
include:
(a)    organization and development of a multidisciplinary group at the
central and regional levels under the coordination of the Human
Resources Division to plan and conduct the training and
supervision processes;
(b)    meetings of the central level group to design strategies of
comprehensive programming with the Maternal-Child, Nutrition,
Epidemiology, Sanitation and Human Resources subprograms;
(c)    technical assistance from PAHO in the programming of the
specific contents in the Maternal-Child, Epidemiology and
Sanitation subprogram;
(d)    working meetings of the central level team with the different
regional teams to identify the needs and jointly develop
supervision programs;
(e)    strengthening of the cooperation with the National University
through joint activities in the Human Resources area. The
Master's program in Public Health, that is being jointly
developed by the National University and the MOH could support
the technical and administrative development of public health
staff;
(f)    follow-on seminars and evaluation of the training and
supervision processes involving central and regional level
staff;
(g)    production of training materials (2 manuals, training evaluation
and monitoring guidelines) and improvement of the existing
training instruments, as needed.
21.   Cost of Supervision and Training Activities.  The proposed project would
finance the training events, the production of materials, part of the fuel
(gasoline) costs, and the per diem for the supervision visits and the monthly
meetings estimated at US$354,200, to be wholly financed by the proposed IDA
credit.
D. Additional Human Resources
22.   On the basis of the inventory of health personnel needs carried out in
the metropolitan regions 4 and 5, the need to hire additional staff for
primary health care services was verified.
23.   Allocation criteria for auxiliary nurses.  The need for recruitment of
additional staff is related to the expansion of the BMI and, in addition,
responds to a more general criteria stating that (i) two auxiliary nurses
should staff each CESAR to achieve coverage and improve care quality and to
avoid closing the locale during days of community work, vacations and leave,



- 90 -                             Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
and (ii) health personnel allocation should be based on the size of the
population within the catchment area of each facility, taking into account the
conditions of accessibility.
24. Allocation of auxiliary nurses in PHC health facilities servina very
small localities. The CESARs serving localities of less than 1,500
inhabitants would be staffed with only one auxiliary nurse, since the level of
demand for PHC services would not justify the allocation of two staff.
However, as auxiliary nurses have to leave their post periodically to attend
training or otherwise be on leave, provisions need to be made to ensure that
these smaller PCH facilities remain open during the absence of the auxiliary
nurse. Thus, a number of substitute auxiliary nurses would be made available
at the health area headquarters, ready to take over the functions of auxiliary
nurses on leave at the smaller CESARs, as needed.
25.   Allocation criteria for professional nurses.  With respect to
professional nurses for the supervision process, the criteria emphasizes the
need to strengthen the supervision process in the areas. The Human Resources
Division indicated that one supervisory nurse for each five CESARs was enough
for ensuring efficient supervision.
26.   Allocation criteria for medical staff.  Additional medical staff is
needed in the poorest health regions, especially at the area level which tends
to depend, almost exclusively, on young physicians assigned to do their
obligatory social service duty, who tend to remain in the system for only one
year. Allocation of physicians is also dependent upon the population
distribution and the health situation of the area compared with the available
number of doctors.
27.   Addition criteria for staff allocation.  The inventory of staff needs
should also consider situations in which it is necessary to reorganize the
services in response changes in the demand, with better distribution of human
resources, as for example in the case of the upgrading of a CESAR into a
CESAMO.
28.   Allocation of staff to trainina schools for auxiliary nurses.  The
proposed project would also strengthen the teaching capability of three
auxiliary nurses' training schools in the regions, financing the salaries of
six additional teachers.
29.   Allocation of additional laboratory staff.  Given the high priority
assigned to the prevention of endemic diseases, particularly AIDS/STD,
additional laboratory staff would be needed. The specific allocation of the
additional laboratory personnel would be determined by the Human Resources
Division, based on the design of the AIDS/STD prevention program and on the
inventory of existing human resources.
30.   Allocation of staff at the central level.  It is necessary to
strengthen, at the central level, the Planning Department which is responsible
for the general coordination of the proposed project, and the Human Resources
Division which currently does not have enough staff to carry out all the
functions and activities it has been assigned.



- 91 -                            Annex 14
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT OF MOH
31.   Cost of Additional Staff for the MDH. The proposed project would
finance the costs of hiring staff for the Project Unit at the central level
and of three specialists for the Human Resources Division. The cost of
consultants to be hired for the Project Unit is estimated at US$238,500, and
would be wholly financed by the proposed IDA credit. Incremental expenditures
for hiring staff to be allocated to the PHC network in the project area are
estimated at US$2.8 million, of which the proposed IDA credit would finance
US$1.8 million on a declining basis.



- 92 -                             Annex 15
BASIC DRUGS FOR
HONDURAS                     THE PHC NETWORK
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
BASIC DRUGS FOR THE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE NETWORK
A.    Current Procurement Practices
1.    The MOH budget for procurement of drugs in 1991 was about L.54.3
million, or about US$10.0 million equivalent, of which about US$3.5 million
was allocated for drugs to be distributed to the PHC network. The MOH budget
comprises the purchase of pharmaceutical products for its 33 administrative
units throughout the country (8 regions and 32 hospitals). The MOH has a
basic table (Cuadro Basico de Medicamentos) of 375 pharmaceutical products,
all generic. Quantities required of each item in this list are updated
yearly, based on quarterly inventory reports prepared by every administrative
unit. This amount may increase in 1992 by 15% to 20%.
2.    About 80% of the drug purchases are made at the central level and the
other 20% at the unit level. Honduran law permits any purchase of less than
L30,000 (about US$6,000) to be done using the shopping method, obtaining at
least three prices from registered suppliers. This applies at both the
central and unit levels. Purchases above the L30,000 threshold must be made
by public bid. This is usually done by the GPO, but under the project a
pharmaceutical procurement unit in the MOH, serving MOH and the IHSS, would be
responsible for drug procurement. In an emergency such as an epidemic, the
GPO or the MOH is authorized by presidential decree to purchase specific drugs
using a private bid or the shopping method.
3.    Administrative health units are allowed to buy up to about 20% of their
needs using the shopping method via purchase orders of under L30,000 to solve
shortfalls of drugs at certain times, mainly resulting from bad planning,
bureaucratic delays, lack of funds and distribution problems. Unfortunately,
the unit prices obtained by those shopping purchases are from about 20% to
150W more expensive than when purchasing through competitive bidding. The
shopping method costs the MOH about L2.5 million per year and it is precisely
by using this method that many of the alleged abnormalities occur.
4.    Once a year, each of the 33 administrative units at the MOH prepares a
list of its pharmaceutical requirements. These lists are sent to MOH
headquarters where the Pharmacy Division analyzes the technical specifications
(including composition, size, form, and presentation). The MOH
financial/budget department reviews the estimated costs and compares it with
the available funds in the MOH budget. The approved list is then compared
with the inventory of the MOH central warehouse (Almacen Central), before it
is sent to the central procurement unit, currently the GPO.
5.    The request by MOH is analyzed by the GPO Pharmacy Division, which
reviews the specifications and quantities in order to complete the technical
aspects of the bidding documents. The GPO legal department prepares the
general, administrative, and legal specifications of these documents. Once
the bidding document is ready for sale to the bidders, the MOH, MOF, and the
CBH are advised. The CBH has a critical role since it must reserve the
foreign exchange needed for an international bid. This is an area which has
often produced delays in the process of drug procurement.



-93 -                              Annex 15
BASIC DRUGS FOR
THE PHC NETWORK
6.    ICB bids are announced in the local press and sent to the embassies.
After proposals are received, they are carefully analyzed by the GPO, with
assistance from MOH personnel. By law, the award should go to the bidder
offering the lowest price bid. Once the award decision is taken, the winner
is advised and a PO is issued to him after he has presented the specific
performance bond. Usually, the order is the only legal document given to the
suppliers.
7.    The MOH would take over from the GPO the procurement of drugs.  Under
the new institutional arrangements, the MOH's procurement capacity would have
to be strengthened in its technical, financial, and accounting aspects.
Technical assistance would be provided under the project to help MOH establish
efficient ICB and LCB procurement methods for pharmaceutical products (para.
4.12).
8.    Pharmaceutical products in Honduras were formerly bought in bulk form
and repackaged. This was later abandoned because of complications in the
repackaging process, especially contamination in handling. An assessment by
IDA during project appraisal concluded that Honduras does not have, at
present, the capacity to package eseential drugs for public sector
consumption.
B.    Main Procurement Issues
9.    The main problems in the process of procurement of pharmaceutical
products in Honduras seems to be of an administrative and financial nature.
The proceSs takes too long, sometimes the shipped/delivered product is not the
same as that specified in the bidding document, and the Central Bank often
delays the process because of lack of foreign exchange. There is also more
frequent use of the shopping method in cases where packaging of purchases for
LCB or ICB would have been preferable, as they would have reduced the cost of
drugs. The main complaint about the GPO's performance is that it takes too
long to complete drug purchases.
10.   The GPO usually does one large ICB and one LCB per year for drug
procurement. The two procurements done in 1991 took about 10 months from the
time the MOH requested the products until the suppliers began to deliver. The
documents were reasonably well done and could easily be amended to comply with
IDA's procurement guidelines. However, they do not provide for effective
contract packaging. A single bid included a total of 175 different items for
which quotations were requested. Since products were not arranged in lots,
many proposals were received, some for only a few items, increasing the
difficulties of bid comparisons. This approach encouraged the participation
of the very small suppliers but discouraged the participation of the big and
well know pharmaceutical suppliers, generally resulting in bids higher than
average international prices.
11.   Concerns were expressed about the quality of Honduras drugs procured for
the public sector. There does not seem to be a technically qualified
laboratory to inspect the products properly. Recently, import requirements
for drugs were changed. Foreign products are no longer required to be
registered in Honduras, but they must have a certificate of free sale in the
country of origin. Drugs to be procured under the project, financed by IDA,



- 94 - 
BASIC DRUGS FOR
THE PHC NETWORK
would be procured from UNICRF, which ensures satisfactory quality standards
without need for pre-shipment inspections.
12. None of the agencies dealing with procurement have any experience with
IDA procurement guidelines, although they have had some experience with IDB-
financed purchases. The GPO's Chief lawyer indicated that Articles No. 16-21
of the Honduran Constitution allow for the local procurement law to be
adjusted to International Financial Institutions guidelines, in the case of
internationally funded procurement.
C.    Procurement of Essential Drua       r the Proco ad Prolect
13.   The procurement of essential drugs to be financed under the proposed
project represent a relatively small fraction of the total annual
requirements of the MOH (para. 20). However, the project would provide the
means for achieving overall improvements in the drugs' purchasing system, both
through institutional strengthening and through introduction of more efficient
procurement practices.
14. Essential drugs to be financed by IDA under the proposed project, would
be procured from UNICEF. The reasons why the GOH would not be given the
responsibility for handling IDA-financed procurement of essential drugs are
the following: (a) the GOH still needs institutional strengthening either at
GPO or at MOH; (b) the drugs to be procured are essential generic drugs whose
relative price varies significantly depending on packaging requirements:
prices for bulk purchases are significantly lower than for packaged supplies;
and (c) considering that Honduras does not presently have the capacity for
packaging drugs and controlling their quality (as has been demonstrated in the
past when packaging was attempted by the NOH), the best available option to
ensure the lowest price is to utilize the procurement and packaging facilities
of UNICEF. Procurement from UNICEF involves: (i) UNICEF procures essential
generic drugs in bulk, according to procurement procedures satisfactory to
IDA, using pre-qualified laboratories that ensure their quality as suppliers;
(ii) UNICEF pre-packages these drugs at the UNIPAC facility in Copenhagen,
according to the specifications provided by the NOH; and (iii) UNICEF
schedules shipments annually, according to supply schedules specified by the
MOH. This procedure has been successfully used in other Bank and IDA financed
project, as for example in Nigeria.
15.   The procurement of essential drugs that would be financed by the GOH
under the project, would be done by ICQ through the MOM, with technical
assistance from international consultants satisfactory to IDA. Funds would be
provided for pre-shipment inspections by independent laboratories, acceptable
to IDA, to ensure conformance with quantity, quality and packaging standards
set out in the bidding documents. Technical assistance and staff training
would be provided to the NOH to improve the efficiency of the procurement of
drugs through standardized bidding documents and contract award procedures,
improved bid packaging, and computerixed control of the procurement process.
Attention would be given to improving contract packaging into lots that will
encourage better competition and simplify bid evaluations. Special attention
would also be given to assisting the MOH in shortening the time required for
the procurement process, improving coordination with the NOF and the Central
Bank to ensure the timely availability of foreign exchange for contract



-95 -                             Annex 15
BASIC DRUGS FOR
THE PHC NETWORK
payments. During the first year of project implementation, consideration
would be given to the desirability of procuring all essential drugs required
by the MOH and the IHSS from UNICEF.
D.    Description of the ComDonent
16.   The proposed project would finance:  (a) essential drugs procured from
UNICEF for the primary health care system of the MOH nationwide, on a
declining basis; and (b) consultants' services to provide technical assistance
to the GOH to improve the efficiency of the procurement process and accompany
the ICB procurement yearly during project implementation.
ESTIMATED BASS COSTS OF MOH ESSENTIAL DRUGS
(US$ MILLION)
| LEV8L OF SERVICES USING ESSENTIAL DRUGS__         
PHC         HOSPITALS        TOTAL        PERCENTAGE
Base Year (1992):             3.5            6.5            10.0          100.0
Proiect Years:
Total                    5.5            6.5            12.0          100.0
Project                 2.0             0.0             2.0           16.7
IDA                      2.0            0.0             2.0           16.7
1994
Total                    5.6            6.5            12.1          100.0
Project                  2.1            0.0             2.1           17.4
IDA                     1.6             0.0             1.6          13.0
Total                    5.7            6.5            12.2          100.0
Project                  2.2            0.0             2.2           18.0
IDA                     0.7             0.0             0.7           5.4
(a)   Essential Druas.  The procurement of drugs to be financed under the
proposed project would increase the amount of drugs procured for the
PHC network countrywide from an estimated US$3.5 million in 1992 to
US$5.5 million in 1993, US$5.6 million in 1994, and US$5.7 million in
1995. Project costs for this component reflect only the costs of the
incremental drugs purchased, and assumes that the MOH budget would
continue to cover a minimum of US$3.5 million for PHC drugs,
throughout project implementation. Thus the total cost of this
component, before contingencies, is estimated at US$6.3 million of
which the proposed IDA credit would finance approximately 66% (US$4.2
million) on a declining basis: 100I up to an aggregated amount of
US$2.0 million; 75% up to an aggregated amount of US$3.6 million; and
30% thereafter. Based on these estimates, the proposed project would
finance approximately 18t of the total MOH supply of medicines for
the public health sector and about 38% of the supply used in PHC
services. Similarly, the proposed IDA credit would cover
approximately 17% of all NH drugs in 1993, 13% in 1994, and 5 in
1995. These figures are summarized below:



- 96 -                             Annex 15
BASIC DRUGS FOR
THE PHC NETWORK
(b)   Technical Assistance.  As agreed between IDA and the GOH during
project preparation, the technical assistance would be provided to
the MOH in two phases. Phase A, financed by the Japanese Grant
Agreement of March 14, 1991, was completed during project preparation
and consisted of a 5-day training curse by two international
consultants selected by IDA, for 20 participants, including 15 from
the GPO and 5 from the MDH division of pharmacy. During their stay
in Honduras, the consultants helped specify the additional computer
equipment and software requirements to improve efficiency of drug
procurement, and funds from the Japanese Grant Facility were
allocated to procure the necessary equipment. Phase two, to be
financed under the project, would consist of:
(c)   training of MOH staff in the use of the computer equipment for drug
procurement purposes, estimated at about $21,600;
(d)   three-year technical assistance to MOH, comprising approximately 20
staff/days per year, estimated at $117,000, focusing on:
- preparation of standard bidding documents for ICB for drugs;
- preparation of annual ICB procurement, including technical
specifications to be included in the bidding documents; bid
evaluation methodology; bid award recommendations; contract
adjudication; monitoring of contract fulfillment; and inter-agency
coordination between the MOH, Ministry of Finance, and the Central
Bank of Honduras.



- 97 -                                 _ann-s 1
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
HLONDURAS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTRA LTH
Current Water Supplv and Sanitation Service Levels
1.    Water supply and sanitation service levels, in 1989, in Honduras were
reported as follows:
POPULATION SERVED
Total  Urban  Rural      Ttail glU=  Rural
(Thousand Inhabitants)    (Percentage Served)
Water Suoolv
Internal Plumbing & Yard Taps   2936  1760  1176            59    so    42
Standpipe                         278   110   168            6      5     6
Total Water                    3214  1870  1344           64    85    48
Sanitation
Water-borne Systems              1440  1188   252           28    54      9
Latrines or Septic Tanks         1694   770   924           34    35    33
TOTAL SANITATION               3134  1958  1176           62    89    42
.
2.    The largest unserved gap is in the rural areas, where the majority of
the population still uses contaminated water sources and inadequate sanitation
practices. Water service is highly rationed especially during the dry season.
Tegucigalpa and other major urban centers are only partially served with
water-borne sewerage. Rural water systems are also highly rationed in part
because of poor promotion.
Environmental Asoects
3.    Intense deforestation of watersheds has gradually impaired the quantity
and quality of the surface water resources. Urban areas, including
Tegucigalpa, that depend mostly on surface supplies suffer from declining dry
weather flows. Water quality is low. An estimated 751 of the water supply is
degraded by turbidity and pollution. This situation has created a competition
for water leading to indiscriminate water uses due to lack of regulation and
control over water resources. The environmental impact is more acute in rural
areas where soil fertility is declining and stream pollution on the rise.
4.    The responsibility for protecting the environment is  fragmented among
several policy leading agencies including the National Environmental
Commission (CONANA), the MOH, the Ministry of Agriculture, and SRCPLAN.
CONAMA is now coordinating national environmental efforts but it lacks the
resources to do an effective job.   The Health Code decree 65-91 of May 1991
is a positive step to preserve natural resources to ensure public health and
general welfare. An MOH commission is presently working on its by-laws.
Sector Organization
5.    The sector is composed primarily of the Servicio Nacional de Agua y
Alcantarillado (SANAA), the Ministry of Health (MOH) through its Division



- 98 -                             Annex 16
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
Saneamiento and the Municipalities. Other agencies that promote water and
sanitation development are the Banco Municipal and the FHIS. The Secretaria
de Planificaci6n (SECPLAN) appraises and approves investment plans and
coordinates sector agencies. Overall, the sector lacks coordination and is
sometime duplicitous. An institutional overview of sector agencies is as
follows:
(a)   SANAA is responsible for providing water and sanitation services
to communities with more than 500 people. It is an autonomous
public entity headed by a seven member board presided by the
Minister of Public Health.
(b)   The Municivalities, 289 in total, are responsible, by virtue of a
Municipal Law of January 1991, for all their basic services. This
means, inter alia, building, operating and maintaining water,
sewerage and drainage systems. In response to this law, SANAA
plans to gradually divest the water and sewerage systems it
currently owns to the respective municipalities. Some 1,000
systems have already been transferred.
(c)   MOH works through its Sanitation Division in rural water and
sanitation in communities of 2000 and less. Its main functions
are normative, including: supervision of sanitary norms, design
reviews, construction supervision, water quality control and
coordination with other sector agencies.
Sector Operational Issues
6.    A brief diagnosis of sector issues summarizes as follows:  (a) absence
of a leadership to take initiatives for sector development; (b) lack of
policies for sector investment and operational efficiency; (c) lack of
coordination among public and private agencies; (d) weak institutional and
financial performance; (e) lack of an information system on operational
assets, service levels and water sources; and (f) low levels of community
promotion. These issues are addressed in the project, within the sphere of
responsibility of the MOH, through enhanced cost-recovery activities,
appropriate supervision and intensive community participation initiatives.
The Rural Water SuDoly and Sanitation SubcomDonent
7.    The water and sanitation component would help address the lack of water
supply and sanitation in rural areas. Communities would be organized as
private entities with legal status to manage their systems. The component
would be implemented in the departments of Choluteca, Valle, Intibuca and
Lempira with the lowest water and sanitation coverage and where the actions of
other programs are limited. Overall, the rural population suffers from a high
incidence of water-borne diseases and prevalent malnutrition. The component
has been designed under a criteria of simple systems based on gravity supply,
shallow dug wells with hand-pumps, and latrines.
8.    Obiectives.  The component would:  (a) contribute to the development of
a comprehensive primary health and nutrition program focused on the poorest



99-                              hAnnx 16
ZNVIROf3NTAL HBALTH
population living in rural communities; (b) organize the communities as legal
entities and help them undertake system construction, operation and
maintenance; and (c) strengthen operational and supervision capabilities of
the health regions to help rural communities properly manage rural water
supplies and sanitation schemes.
9.    Service Levels. The component would provide a service level that
communities could choose according to their willingness to contribute. Other
factors affecting service levels include the degree of house dispersion and
water sources limitations. The service level options that would be offered
are:
(a)   for water supply:  (i) wells with hand-pump; (ii) water system
with public standpipes; and (iii) water systems with patio
connections; and
(b)   for sanitation:  (i) dry latrines; (ii) water-seal latrines; and
(iii) septic tanks.
10.   At any level, the final design has to be the least cost solution or the
only alternative.
11.   Criteria for Selection of Communities.  The NOH has the responsibility
to: (a) formulate the national sanitary policy and oversee its
implementation, which it does through the application of the Health Code of
May 1991; and (b) supply small rural communities of 200 to 2,000 inhabitants,
with basic water supply and latrines. Thus, under the proposed project, the
environmental health component, to be implemented by the MDH, would benefit
only rural communities with population between 200 and 2,000 inhabitants.
Among these, subprojects would be located in specific communities selected
according to the following criteria:
(a)   The community has to demonstrate its intent and readiness to form
a Local Water and Sanitation Board (Juntas Administradoras de
Agua, JUNTAs) to take responsibility for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the systems. This requires community
commitment and ability to contribute, in-kind or cash (land,
labor, and materials) to construction and to pay an adequate fee
for water use and system operation and maintenance;
(b)   Communities with poor sanitation and health (prevalence of
gastroenteritis, parasitosis, cholera, and other water related
diseases);
(c)   Surface water sources available by gravity or, for well
development, ground water must be available at shallow depth of up
to 25 meters; in both cases, ease of development would be an
important consideration;
(d)   Communities must agree that latrines would be installed in rural
homes simultaneously with the waterworks; in shallow well
development, latrines would be installed in houses to be serve by
the wells; and,



- 100 -                            Annex 16
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
(e)   Communities generally located nearby all-weather or dry-weather
roads; in some instances of lack of nearby roads, the community
would play an important role in implementing the project since
they would be asked to transport materials from the nearest town
to the site.
In the process of selecting communities for inclusion in the proposed project,
the MOH would take care to assure that the communities are not listed in the
portfolios of other ongoing or proposed programs.
12.   Design Criteria
(a)   The target population for each village is the population in the
next 15 years, at the region's rate; for villages with limited
water sources, the design period may be 10 years or be based on
public standpipes instead of patio connections;
(b)   The per capita consumption in liters per day for users with access
to:
(i)   Hand-pumps                                  20
(ii)  Water systems with standpipes               30
(iii) Water systems with patio connections        60
(c)   Factors of average daily demand
(i)   Maximum day                                  1.3
(ii)  Maximum hour                                 2.3
(d)   Storage (% of daily demand)                       35
(e)   Minimum pressure in meters                         5
13.   Description.  The proposed component would be flexible in project scope
within the above criteria. It includes the construction of the following
facilities:
(a)   approximately 40 gravity water systems (30 with patio connections
and 10 with public standpipes;
(b)   about 300 dug shallow wells with hand-pumps;
(c)   nearly 10,000 latrines of the pit and water-seal types;
(d)   tools for community's operation and maintenance;
(e)   a program of community promotion to the beneficiary communities,
including their participation in project construction, operation
and maintenance of the systems and protection of water sources;
(f)   engineering studies to prepare a second stage of a water and
sanitation component within a second health and sanitation
project; and
(g)   medical waste disposal at PHC facilities, including situation
analysis and development of a training module for PHC staff; the
terms of reference for this study are presented in Annex 17.
14.   CoaDonent Cost.  The estimated component cost is US$4.11 million,
including price contingencies, including: (a) US$4.08 million for water
supply and sanitation; and (b) US$0.03 million for preparation of a medical



- 101 -                            Annex 16
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
waste training manual. The costs for the water supply and sanitation
subcomponent are based on final design prices of 11 water systems and updated
cost of modular designs for dug wells and latrines. The estimated cost
includes 6' engineering and administration costs and a 10% physical
contingency. Community participation was estimated at 20% of the cost of
construction, in accordance with regional wages and contribution in local
materials. The average current cost for both water and sanitation systems
results in a per capita for water and sanitation services of US$56. The
component also includes a US$0.1 million for engineering studies for second
stage water and sanitation rural development, to be financed by UNICEF as a
grant to MOH.
15.   Imolementation  This component would be executed by the MOH Project Unit
with the assistance of the Sanitation Division in accordance with a Water and
Supply and Sanitation Manual satisfactory to IDA. A sanitary engineer from
the Project Unit has been assigned to be coordinator for this component. The
duties of the coordinator would be to: (a) promote the continuity of
community identification through the Health Region's promoters; (b) supervise
the design work by private consultants; (c) prepare plans for designs,
construction and community promotion; (d) prepare a training course for the
promoters involved in promoting the component; (e) coordinate engineering
studies for a second stage project and prepare progress reports of the
component; (f) contract and supervise subproject construction; and (g) oversee
the preparation of the medical waste disposal study.
16.   Health Region Participation.  The Health Regions would have
responsibility for community promotion. A crew of 15 trained promoters would
work in selected communities under the direction of the head regional
promoter. Promoters would: (a) preselect prospective communities in
accordance with selection criteria; (b) organize a JUNTA in selected
communities; (c) assist the JUNTA in meeting MOH requirements; (d) impart on-
the-job health education on hygiene practices and use of latrines; and (e)
serve as intermediary between the community and the Project Unit.
17.   A two-month course for about 40 promoters would be launched in Choluteca
in October of 1992 so that they would be in the field before the credit
becomes effective. The project would provide a modest financial facility to
mobilize the promoters to the villages. An operational manual of the component
has been prepared and would be available to the promoters.
18.   Cormunity Promotion.  A community promoter would visit each community to
discuss health needs and survey available water resources. If the village is
chosen to be part of the project a consultant would be sent to the field to
study the least cost solution and estimate the system cost. The health
promoter would organize a JUNTA. A construction aareement would be signed
between the MOH and JUNTA before the initiation of construction works. After
the works have been completed, a transfer agreement would also be signed by
which the MOH transfers the property of all assets and lands and right-of-ways
to the committee.
19.   Legal Status of JUNTAs.  The MOH has agreed to expedite the legal status
of the local boards by serving as an intermediary to process their
applications to the Ministry of Interior (Ministerio de Gobernaci6n). The
MOH's legal department would take charge of this processing and contacts have



- 102 -                             Annex 16
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
been made with Gobernaci6n. SCES would exert supervision of the legal
process. It has already prepared the legal prerequisites that need to be sent
to the Ministry of Interior for approval. The MOH has agreed that the legal
status of community boards would be a condition to signed the construction
contract. In special cases, the NOH would allow that the legal status be
obtained during the construction period and before the transfer of the systems
to the communities.
20.   Operation and Maintenance.  Under the transfer agreement, the community
would commit to operate and maintain the system and to charge a monthly fee to
beneficiary families to pay for expenses, as well as to create a small reserve
for expansion. Decree 100-90 authorizes local boards to set tariffs with a
charge of L4.00 per month per house connection. Local tariffs would be
adjusted periodically to ensure coverage of the cost of operation and
maintenance requirements of each local system. The JUNTA would follow
operational and accounting procedures as set forth in the MOH's manual for
operation and provision of services. The MOH would periodically supervise the
operation, but not less than once a year.
Control of the Oualitv of the Water
21.  The MOH, through its Health Regions, would be responsible for testing
the quality of the water supplied by the systems built under the project.
These tests would be carried out at least once a year, no later than March 31
of each year. The MOH would also be responsible for taking any remedial
action as necessary to ensure adequate quality of the water supplied.
Medical Waste Disposal Subcomponent
22.   To address the need of appropriate disposal of medical waste, including
contaminated waste such as used needles, the NDH would contract consultant's
services to: (i) carry out a review of current waste disposal conditions at
PHC centers in the project area; and (ii) prepare training instruments that
would be used to train PHC staff on appropriate medical waste disposal
practices. The terms of reference for this study are presented in Annex 17.



- 103 -                            Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
HONDURAS                         FOR STUDIES
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
These terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. The terms of reference for the long-term nutrition policy (item
A below) and for the cost-recovery of MOH health services (item B below) are
attached to the legal documents as a Supplemental Letter to the Credit
Agreement.
A.    LONG-TERM NUTRITION POLICY
1.    Objective.  The objective of this study is to formulate a comprehensive
long term nutrition policy capable of promoting efficient, technically and
financially sustainable improvements in the nutrition status of the Honduran
population.
2.    Terms of Reference
(a)   Nutrition Trends
(i)   Prevalence of nutritional deficiencies by type, population
category, socioeconomic group, region, and other relevant
categories. Cross-sectional data for the latest year
available, and time series when feasible;
(ii) Analysis of major nutritional problems facing Honduras and
of target groups for interventions; identification of key
variables and vulnerable groups to be addressed to resolve
the problem;
(iii) Analysis of food security issues in the context of aggregate
macroeconomic policies;
(iv) Analysis of food aid policies of the Government and of major
donors, and impact of these on the design of nutrition
program; description of prospects for future aid flows and
constraints on their utilization; and
(v)   Analysis of patterns of food insecurity and compensating
strategies used at the household level.
(b)   Nutrition and Food Aid Program
(i)   Background, objectives and brief description of each program
in terms of: (1) program objectives, including scale and
mix of types of nutrition/food assistance; (2) number,
classification and distribution of intended and actual
beneficiaries (coverage ratios); (3) target groups and
targeting mechanisms used for beneficiary selection; (4)
mechanisms used for delivering assistance and criteria
linked to selection of these mechanisms; (5) linkages of
main delivery mechanism to other nutrition promoting
activities; (6) coverage, total and unit costs, and program
financing arrangements; (7) design and actual impact on
nutrition problems of target beneficiaries; and (8)



- 104 -                            Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
implementing agencies and degree of community and
beneficiary participation;
(ii)  Analysis, taking into account the interactive impact of
poverty, illness and ignorance on nutritional status, of
coverage and nutritional impacts on selected vulnerable
groups, of the existing nutrition assistance programs;
identification of problems of efficiency and distributive
fairness in current programs' coverage patterns; in
particular, analysis of the extent of overlapping which
might exist between nutrition assistance programs, and the
extent to which programs detract from the central objective
of reducing malnutrition;
(iii) Analysis of institutional arrangements for the provision of
nutrition assistance, including public/private mix, and
identification of issues related to institutional
arrangements and support from non-governmental agencies;
(iv)  Institutional analysis of FAP; and
(v)   Analysis of sources of data related to nutrition,
especially, anthropometric measurements and measurements
used in child growth monitoring, regarding: (1) validity
and reliability of the collection of basic weight, height
and age data by the MOH at primary health care facilities;
(2) methods of data processing and the flow of data from the
local to the central level of the M0H; (3) capacity for data
analysis at the local, regional and central levels of the
NDH and FAP, and their utilization in decision-making; and
(4) feedback of findings to the local level aimed at
improvements in nutrition assistance and maternal and child
health care.
(c)   Recommendations for a lona term nutrition oolicv
(i)   Recommendations to improve coverage of vulnerable groups
fairly and efficiently through the implementation of
nutrition assistance programs, including recommendations to
better coordinate public and private nutritional services,
and to eliminate undue overlaps of benefits among programs;
(ii)  Recommendations on nutrition education programs;
(iii) Recommendations for coordinating food aid programs with
delivery of other social services that interact strongly on
nutritional outcomes: (1) primary health care services,
especially maternal and child health care; (2) day-care,
pre-school and primary education; and (3) community
development programs;
(iv)  Recommendations for policy adjustments in other
complementary sectors to provide a satisfactory and enabling
environment for reducing the incidence of moderate and
severe malnutrition; these complementary sectors are: (1)
environmental health, including water supply and sanitation;
(2) food commodities regulations, inspection and



- 105 -                            Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
marketing/advertizing practices; (3) diarrhea and intestinal
parasite control programs; and (4) community social
services; and
(v)   Recommendations for adjusting externally assisted food aid
and food coupon programs with the long term nutrition
policy.
(d)   Evaluation of the FAP food coupon vrogram comprising of an
analysis of the impact of the food coupon program on maternal and
child health status, improvement of which is the main objective of
the proposed project. Data for this evaluation would be collected
from the Project Area and from a comparable non-project area that
would be used as control. The evaluation would focus on
determining the program's impacts on:
(i)   the nutrition status of pregnant women, including weight
gains during pregnancy;
(ii) maternal mortality;
(iii) frequency of low weight baby-births; and
(iv) weight and height of children, including school and
preschool children.
3.    OrQanization and Timetable.  The study would be carried out over a
period of 6 months and would require an estimated 10 months of consultants'
services, estimated at US$100,000, which would be wholly financed by the
proposed IDA credit. The terms of reference for this consulting assignment
have been confirmed at negotiations; choice of consultants and contract
signature would be completed by March 31, 1993; execution of the assignment
would be completed by November 15, 1993; discussion of policy recommendations
would take place during the first annual review by December 10, 1993; the
implementation plan would be completed by January 15, 1994; and implementation
would commence immediately thereafter and would be completed by December 31,
1995. The consultants' team, including a food security economist, and
nutrition specialists, would travel to Honduras twice for a three-week period,
to collect data in the field. Based on the analysis of the data collected,
the consultants' team would prepare a comprehensive report, including
recommendation, to be presented to the Government and to the donor community.
During a third trip, the consultants' team would lead a two or three day
workshop to discuss the policy recommendations. The study would be
coordinated by the MOH.
B.    COST-RECOVERY OF MOH HEALTH SERVICES
4.    Background.  The MOH started a pilot cost-recovery program in 1989
through user fees charged for curative services at hospitals and PHC
facilities with the objective of recovering 25k of the operating costs
(excluding salaries), that is, almost 12% of total operating costs. The MOH
has developed a sophisticated management information system to control
revenues recovered and their use by local facilities. This information system
is a major asset for the proposed study. The major issues affecting the
performance of this cost recovery system are: (a) the incentive for



- 106 -                             Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
recovering costs provided by local retention of most of the costs recovered by
1OH facilities may be revoked by the GOH, once the agreement signed with USAID
expires in 1995; (b) a preliminary analysis of the performance of the MOH cost
recovery system indicates that: (i) cost recovery incentives need to be
tailored to PHC facilities, because only curative services are charged while
PHC services are predominantly preventive; (ii) cost recovery agreements
between MOH and the Honduran Social Security Institute for shared services,
are not in place; (iii) differential fees for privately insured patients have
not been established; and (iv) the MOH needs an action plan to improve
performance and expand coverage of its cost recovery system.
5.    Obiectives.  The proposed study aims at providing the MOH with the
necessary management tools to maximize cost recovery at hospitals and primary
health care facilities while expanding access and use of primary health care
services, and guiding the MOH in the implementation of a more equitable and
efficient system nationwide.
6.    Terms of Reference
Phase I - Diacnosis
(a)   Institutional Analysis;
(i)   Legal framework and regulations governing cost recovery of
health services;
(ii)  Inter-institutional framework (MOH and the Honduran Social
Security Institute) and its implications for the MOH cost
recovery system; and
(iii) Insurance systems, including private systems, and their
implications for the MOH cost recovery system;
(b)   Analysis of the MOH Present Cost Recovery System;
(i)   Basic characteristics;
(ii)  Performance at the hospital service level;
(iii) Performance at the PHC service level;
(iv)  Structure of user fees and its equity impact;
(v)   Analysis of cost recovery performance at the level of health
regions;
(vi)  Main inefficiencies of the current system; and
(vii) Constraints to system reform.
(c)   Presentation of Preliminary Report;
Phase I - Recommendations
(i)   Recommendations for system reform;
(ii) Cost benefit analysis of proposed reform;



-107 -                              Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(iii) Specification of cost recovery targets by health regions,
distinguishing between hospital and PHC services; and
(iv) Technical, material and financial requirements for the
implementation of the proposed reforms.
(d)   Presentation of Final Phase I Report;
(e)   Workshop to discuss the report and reach agreement on policy
reform and implementation plan;
Phase II - Implementation
(f)   Pilot implementation in 2 or 3 health regions;
(g)   Review of the results of the pilot implementation, and adjustments
to the system; and
(h)   Program for expanding the cost recovery system nationwide.
7.    Organization and Timetable.  The activities under this study to be
carried out by the MOH include a fist phase directed at assessing the
situation and recommending measures to improve the present cost recovery
system, and a second phase when the recommendations of the study would be
implemented in two or three health regions. The study would be conducted by
specialized consultants (either individuals, or firm) over a period of three
years. During the first year, the Phase I study program would be completed.
During the second and third year, implementation of the improved cost recovery
system would take place in the health regions. The proposed study is
estimated to require approximately 38 months of consultants' services,
estimated to cost US$380,000, and would be wholly financed by the proposed IDA
credit.  The terms of reference for this consulting assignment have been
confirmed at negotiations; choice of consultants and contract signature would
be completed by March 31, 1993; execution of the assignment would be completed
by December 10, 1993; discussion of policy recommendations would take place
during the first annual project implementation review; the action plan would
be completed by January 31, 1994; implementation and technical assistance to
support implementation, would commence immediately thereafter and would be
completed by December 31, 1995.
C.    Medical Waste Disposal Study and Trainina Module
8.    Backoround.  A preliminary evaluation of the conditions under which
biosecurity equipment and materials and their final disposal is handled at the
MOH PHC facilities, indicates lack of safe disposal methods and facilities.
For disposal purposes, medical waste is not separated from common solid waste
and is dumped in the same unprotected garbage pile. In CESAMOs that have
laboratories, test vessels are disposed off in common garbage cans. The poor
often retrieve syringes from these garbage cans for resale, some are used as
toys by children, and even used cotton balls are retrieved from the garbage by
alcoholics. Moreover, most health staff do not have access to biosecurity
materials such as rubber gloves and masks. Clearly, there are serious
environmental and health threats associated with the inadequate medical waste
disposal practices in MOH primary health care facilities.



- 108 -                             Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
9.    Obiectives.  The proposed study would help achieve the following
objectives:
(a)   Analyze the conditions under which medical waste is disposed off
at the MOH PHC facilities, and estimate the needs for biosecurity
materials, equipment and building repairs and their investment and
recurrent costs, to ensure adequate protection to staff and
patients and safe disposal of medical waste;
(b)   prepare a training manual, tailored to auxiliary nurses and
laboratory technicians, on biosecurity norms for handling and
disposing of hazardous materials, including techniques for
collection, transport and final disposal of medical waste; and
(c)   design and implementation of a training program for auxiliary
nurses, laboratory technicians and waste collection and disposal
personnel.
10.   Activities.  The study would involve three specialists during
approximately 4 months, or 12 months of consultants' services, and would be
conducted in three phases, comprising the following activities:
Phase I - Diacrnosis specifying for primary health care facilities:
(a)   needs for biosecurity materials, equipment and building repairs to
ensure adequate protection to staff and patients and safe disposal
of medical waste:
(b)   procedures to improve the system of collection and disposal of
medical waste at the CESAMOs;
(c)   cost estimates (investment and recurrent costs) for the execution
of civil works, installation of equipment, and provision of
biosecurity materials;
Phase II - Development of a Training Manual. Organization of a working
group consisting of an specialist in biosecurity materials, a public
health specialist and a cytologist to:
(d)   analyze, based on site inspections,  the handling and disposal of
medical waste, health personnel practice, and local behavior
patterns associated with the handling of medical waste;
(e)   define the functions and activities of the staff responsible for
handling medical disposal equipment, and the internal and external
collection and disposal of medical waste;
(f)   prepare a training manual on disposal of medical waste,
comprising: (i) description of contents of the training program;
(ii) program format; (iii) didactic materials; and (iv) practical
examples of adequate handling and disposal of medical waste;
(g)   presentation of a preliminary report and training manual;



- 109 -                             Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
Phase III - Review and Imolementation
(h)   the training manual would be submitted for validation to two or
three specialist who would not have taken part in the study;
(i)   test of the first version of the manual in primary health care
facilities located in the project area, with staff responsible for
handling hazardous materials and disposing of medical waste, and
review of the manual; and
(j)   preparation and implementation of a training program for health
area supervisors on the use of the manual at the primary health
care facilities, and how to incorporate the manual in the regular
training program for primary health care staff.
11.   Organization and Timetable.  The study and training manual would be
contracted by MOH to local consultants, satisfactory to IDA, involving
approximately 12 months of consulting services at an estimated cost of
US$34,000, to be wholly financed by the proposed IDA credit. The terms of
reference for this consulting assignment have been confirmed at negotiations;
choice of consultants and contract signature would be completed by March 31,
1993; execution of the assignment would be completed by August 15, 1993; and
training would commence by September 15, 1993 and continue thereafter.
D.    Operations Research
12.   Obiective.  Implement specific studies on maternal and child health care
and nutrition programs in the project area (para. 12) in order to design
specific options for improvements.
13.   Priority Topics.  A preliminary list of priority topics would be as
follows:
(a)   The information system at the local level (CESAR and CESAMO),
including rationalization and simplification of the forms which
are used by auxiliary personnel, of the registration of data, of
data flows from the facility to higher levels of MOH
administration, development of data analysis capabilities;
development of information feedback arrangements reaching the
local level, and procedures for using the data for decision-making
at all levels of the MOH administrative system;
(b)   Referral system from CESARs and CESAMOs to the health area and
area hospitals, focusing on birth attendants' referrals,
communications, transportation and resolution capacity at the
health area level (emergency rooms, maternities, blood banks and
surgery facilities);
(c)   Indicator(s) for better measuring the integration of the delivery
of primary health care services at the CESARs and CESAMOs;
(d)   Impact analysis of the institutional capacity of FAP to address
nutrition problems; and
(e)   Use of sentinel sites to measure changes over time, through impact
indicators (such as infant mortality rate, maternal mortality



- 110 -                             Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
rate, nutrition status, low birth weight rate), and to monitor
linkages between impact indicators and other performance
indicators, such as access to primary health care services by
mothers and children, percentage of children immunized,
availability of essential drugs, and accessibility of referral
institutions.
14.   Organization and Timetable.  The operations research proposed would be
carried out by the MOH during the three years of project implementation,
through the Master's Program of the School of Public Health of the National
Autonomous University of Honduras. Master students would be assigned specific
topics to research at health areas with which they are most familiar. This
formula offers reasonable assurances of success, for the following reasons:
(a) most of the students in the Master's Program are chief of health areas,
including the areas that are part of the proposed project; (b) students would
continue to perform their MOH functions during the course, and (c) students
are required to continue in their present functions, once they graduate.
Priority for assignment of topics would be given to those aspects of the
primary health care system that are not working properly at the present time.
The MOH would be responsible for entering into a consulting contract with the
University, and for supervising the operations research activates. The
contract between the University and MOH would be signed by May 31, 1993; the
annual study program would be approved by MOH in consultation with IDA during
the annual project implementation reviews; research activities would be
carried out between April 1 and October 31 of each year; and technical reports
on each study would be presented by November 15 of each year.
15.   Cost estimates.  The cost of the operations research to be carried out
under the proposed project is estimated at US$150,000 and would be wholly
financed by IDA.
E.    Study of the SupplV of Generic Drugs through the Private Sector
16.   Background.  In the private pharmacies of Honduras, the predominant type
of drugs offered for sale are brand-name drugs, which are sold at relatively
high prices. Typically, the private pharmacies have few lower-income clients.
To date, generic drugs constitute a very small share of total drugs sold by
private pharmacies. This situation would need to be changed if the private
pharmaceutic sector were to effectively contribute to improving the health
status of the majority of Hondurans who cannot afford brand-name drugs.
17.   Oblectives.  The study aims at increasing access, for the majority of
the population, to essential drugs that are of high quality and low price,
through the analysis of ways in which the private pharmaceutic sector would
increase its procurement and distribution of generic drugs throughout the
country.
18.   Terms of Reference.  The study would focus on the following constraints
to the marketing of generic drugs by the private pharmaceutical retail
industry:
(a)   legal and regulatory;
(b)   organizational;
(c)   marketing;



- 111 -                            Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
(d)   economic;
(e)   financial;
(f)   information on suppliers;
(g)   quality control safeguards; and
(h)   procurement methods.
19.   Reporting.  The consultants engaged for this study would:  (a) prepare a
preliminary report for discussion with the Cooperative of Private
Pharmaceutical Product Retailers at the end of the 6th month of the study, (b)
incorporate their comments, and (c) present a final report at the end of the
7th month of the study.
20.   Organization and Timetable.  Consultants' services would be contracted
by the MOH to provide technical assistance to the Cooperative of Private
Pharmaceutical Product Retailers, aiming at producing specific recommendations
for the expansion of private supply of generic drugs through the local retail
market. The study would require approximately 8 months of consultants'
services. The cost of these consultants' services was estimated at US$72,000
and would be wholly financed by IDA. The terms of reference for this
consulting assignment have been confirmed at negotiations; choice of
consultants and contract signature would be completed by March 31, 1993;
execution would commence immediately thereafter and a final report would be
presented by August 31, 1993; discussion of policy recommendations would take
place during the first annual implementation review, when measures to be taken
would be approved by the MOH in consultation with IDA.
F.    Technical Assistance to the Ministrv of Health (NOH) for the Procurement
of Drugs. The terms of reference for this consultant assignment is presented
in Annex 15, Section D.
G.    Radio Communications Feasibility Study and Pilot Program
21.   Background.  The MOH network of primary health care facilities is devoid
of means of communication, particularly in the rural area, lacking both
transportation and telecommunications. This circumstance precludes primary
health care staff to: (i) efficiently refer cases to higher level MOH
facilities, and (ii) receive guidance when facing emergency situations. This
communication gap could be bridged through the use of radio communications at
relatively low cost. The MOH has already successfully experienced the use of
radio communications during the emergency campaign to control the cholera
epidemic. The Red Cross of Honduras has had extensive experience with radio
communications and equip all its ambulances with a packet-radio. Both of
these experiences augur well for the introduction of radio communications at
the CESAR and CESAMO facilities of the MOH.
22.   Obiectives.  The feasibility study of radio communications services the
MOH network of primary health care facilities in the project area that lack
telephones, aims at: (i) determine what type of equipment would best suit the
needs of these facilities; (ii) design the appropriate network to operate the
system; (iii) specify maintenance arrangements needed to keep the system in
good operating conditions; (iv) design a training program for auxiliary nurses
to operate the system; (v) analyze the costs and benefits of the recommended
system, and estimate the component of recurrent costs; (vi) install a pilot



- 112 -                            Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
radio network consisting of 10 stations and one hub-station, to test the
system in practice; (vii) assess the results of the pilot experience; and
(viii) design the expansion of the system to an additional 30 local stations
and the required number of hubs.
23.   Scope of Work.  The work would be performed in four phases, schedule as
follows: Phases I, II and III, during the first year of project
implementation; Phase IV during the second and third year of project
implementation. The estimated number of stations to be installed by year is:
10 in the first year, 15 in the second year and 15 in the third year. The
activities to be carried out in each phase include:
Phase I - Feasibility Study
(a)   Information needs analysis;
(b)   Hardware selection and procurement;
(c)   Network design;
(d)   Legal authorizations, export licenses;
Phase II - System Integration and Testing:  Pilot Network of 10 Stations
(e)   Technical assistance for system installation;
(f)   Training of local operating and maintenance staff;
(g)   Supervision of initial operation;
Phase III - Assessment of Pilot Exoeriment
(h)   System performance evaluation;
(i)   Preliminary design of network expansion;
Phase IV - Installation of Expanded Network of 30 Stations
(j)   Detailed design of network;
(k)   Procurement of hardware;
(1)   Installation;
(m)   Training of local staff for operation and maintenance; and
(n)   System's integration and testing.
24.   Reoortin .  Following the completion of each phase, the consultant would
present a progress report to MOH. In addition, at the end of Phase III, the
consultant would present a comprehensive report on the results of the
experimental stations, for discussion during the first annual project
implementation review.
25.   Choice of Consultant.  A specialized NGO would be contracted to prepare
the feasibility study, conduct the pilot experiment, its assessment, and
install the expanded network. The Government has agreed to contract The
Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA), of Arlington, Virginia, to carry
out these activities. VITA has extensive experience in communication



- 113 -                             Annex 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STUDIES
technologies applied to the health sector, including radio, telephone, and
computerized satellite communications. VITA's experience in developing
countries is impressive, including in two Central American countries. Its
list of completed and on-going projects includes: Argentina, Cuba, Djibouti,
Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Mozambique, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Somalia, Tanzania,
Uganda, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe. VITA's expertise in packet-radio
communications has been successfully tested in the Sudan, where it installed a
six-station solar-powered packet radio network linking a number of health
centers; in Ethiopia, where it assisted CARE in helping solve field
communications problems during the 1985 famine relief efforts; and in Jamaica,
following Hurricane Gilbert, in 1988, where VITA helped establish a packet-
radio network for Jamaica's Office of Disaster Preparedness.
26. Organization and Timetable. VITA would be contracted by MOH, as part of
the proposed project, to prepare the feasibility study, provide initial
technical assistance and training for installation of the pilot network,
assess the results of the pilot experiment, design the expansion of the
network, and provide technical assistance and training for the expanded
network. Overall, the work is estimated to require about 16 staff/months.
The cost of the study, including equipment for the pilot stations, was
estimated at US$160,000 that would be wholly financed by IDA. The cost of
equipment for the expanded network is estimated at US$0.3 million for 30
additional stations, and is included in the project cost tables as part of
equipment for primary health care centers and would be wholly financed by the
proposed IDA credit. The terms of reference and the choice of consultants for
this consulting assignment was confirmed at negotiations; the consultant's
contract would be signed by March 31, 1993; the feasibility study would be
completed by June 30, 1993; a pilot network of ten stations would have been
installed by September 15, 1993; an evaluation of the pilot network would be
completed by December 10, 1993; MOH would decide on the expansion of the
network to comprise an additional 30 stations, in consultation with IDA during
the first annual project implementation review; if the decision is positive,
procurement of the hardware for the expansion of the network would have been
carried out by MOH immediately thereafter; and installation of the additional
stations would be completed at least by the following dates: 15 additional
stations by December 31, 1994 and all 30 additional stations by December 31,
1995.
H. School Nutrition Censuses
27.   The Ministry of Education has conducted nutrition censuses of first
grade primary school students aged 6-9 years in 1987 and 1991, with technical
assistance form the Institute of Nutrition for Central America and Panama.
The Ministry of Education presently has all the necessary expertise to conduct
such censuses without further technical assistance. Under the proposed
project, the SCES would be responsible for the implementation of annual school
nutrition censuses carried out by the Ministry of Education. The cost of
conducting three nationwide school nutrition census is estimated at
US$270,000, to be wholly financed by the proposed IDA credit.



- 114 -                          Annx 18-
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDlTO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONOURAS             S-226
Tegucigalpa, D.C. Novenber 18, 1992                   No
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street. N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.   Since  1990,  the  Government  of  Honduras  has  started  a
comprehensive program to support human resources in parallel with
its structural adjustment program. In the short term, priority has
been given to poverty alleviation through the execution of the
safety net programs managed by the Honduran Social Investment Fund
(SIF) and the Family Assistance Program (FAP). These programs are
targeted to the most vulnerable members of society and are intended
to prevent a deterioration in the already precarious living
standards of the poorest groups during the adjustment period.
Through the SIF and FAP programs, the Government has been able to
respond rapidly to a critical poverty situation, until the ministry
line have been strengthened and project activities may be
reintegrated into normal ministry operations. More generally, to
protect social sector programs from the full impact of the
austerity measures underway, it is the Government's intention to at
least maintain the share of social expenditures in the budget
roughly constant in real terms, at one-third of public spending and
about 11% of GDP, during the remainder of this Administration
ending in December 1993. To assist in the transition to the next
Administration, during 1993, the Government plans to undertake- a
comprehensive review of social sector expenditures, with support
from the Japanese Grant Facility.   Based on the results of this
review, we will recommend to the next Administration a social
sector adjustment operation that will include appropriate budgetary
reforms and adjustments to the share of social sector expenditures,
in support of a long-term program of human resources development.
2.   SIF assistance is viewed as temporary, and is scheduled to end
by  March  1994.    Program  activities  include  financing  for
rehabilitation of schools and health centers, construction of
latrines and wells, provision of teaching materials and health
supplies, training for social personnel, and credit for informal



- 115 -                          Annex 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
TegucigaJpa, D.C. November 18, 1992                  No S-226
sector activities. The SIF has worked closely with the Ministries
of Health (MOH) and Education (MOE) and with local communities to
ensure that these entities would provide staff and finance
operating expenses and maintenance on a recurrent basis for social
infrastructure rehabilitated or constructed with SIF. financing. To
date, approximately 3,415 subprojects have been financed through
the SIF for a total cost of US$56,4 million, and an additional
2,500 subprojects are planned for 1993.  In parallel to the SIF
program, nutrition assistance is being provided to the most
vulnerable groups at risk of malnutrition through the FAP food
coupon program. FAP's assistance is given, in collaboration with
the MOH and MOE, through the targeted distribution of food coupons
to poor, pregnant and nursing women, poor primary school attenders,
and poor children under five. To date this program has benefitted
approximately 160,000 women and children in the poorest areas of
Honduras with highest malnutrition rates. The program has worked
well and it is the Government's intention to expand it with donor
support.
3.   To consolidate the achievements in the nutrition and health
sectors  recorded  during  the  first  three  years  of  this
Administration, the Government of Honduras has decided to place
special emphasis on policy reforms and rationalization measures
that are still needed to improve sector efficiency. Three main
areas will be covered.  First, the Government will promote food
security and provide nutrition assistance to the most vulnerable
groups by consolidating FAP's achievements in the short term and
designing and implementing a long-term nutrition policy. Second,
it will increase accessibility to public health services, with
renewed emphasis on primary health care services. And third, it
will expand the supply of potable water and  basic sanitation
services to rural areas and in marginal urban areas that are not
currently served. Through these reforms, the Government expects to
redirect scarce resources toward the country's neediest groups and
achieve economies that will help improve social services.   The
purpose of this letter is to present the Government's policies in
nutrition, public health, water and sanitation, which have a direct
incidence on health.   It also presents the monitoring system
incorporated in the Government's program to measure progress,
including the impact of social programs on the welfare of Honduran
families.



- 116 -                          Annox 8l*
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
S-226
Tegucigalpa, D.C. Noverber 18, 1992-o... No.22..
Nutritional Services
4.   The  Government  plans  to  improve  and  expand  nutrition
assistance provided by FAP and the MOH by: (a) expanding the FAP
food coupon program to at least 250,000 beneficiaries per year,
including young children and pregnant and nursing mothers at risk
of malnutrition by 1995; (b) strengthening the links between
nutrition assistance and the provision of basic health and
education services; and (c) expanding nutrition education programs
through the MOH, including education on breast feeding, weaning
practices and feeding of small children at public health facilities
and at the community level, in collaboration with local non-
governmental organizations.
5.   Given the magnitude of the need for nutrition assistance in
the country, significant reduction in malnutrition can only be
achieved through the implementation of a long-term program.  For
that reason, the life of FAP, originally limited to four years, was
extended indefinitely by Congress in October 1992. There is also
the need to enaure complementarily between the FAP food coupon
program and other in-kind food distribution programs, review the
efficiency of these programs and ensure that their targeting is
adequate.  To that effect, by November 15, 1993, the Government
will prepare a draft long-term national nutrition policy to:
(i) asseas the optimal mix of nutrition interventions, and place
emphasis on the most efficient programs;   (ii) review to what
extent monetization of food aid currently distributed in-kind could
be increased; (iii) conaolidate the institutional framework for the
delivery of nutritional services, by strengthening PRAF's
administrative capacity to manage an expanded food coupon program;
(iv) improve coordination among donor institutions providing
nutrition asaistance ; and (v) ensure the long-term sustainability
of targeted nutrition assistance programs through progressive
increase of the Government's share in program financing for
discussion with the Association. Implementation of this long-term
nutrition policy will commence on February 1, 1994.
6.   During the 1993-1995 period, the Government will continue its
efforts to mobilize additional funding from the donor community to
help suatain the FAP food coupon programs beyond the life of the
proposed Nutrition and Health Project, thus ensuring the
sustainability of these programs and the implementations of its



- 117 -                           ^.ug 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDUR\               SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
rcguciKalPa, D.C. November 18, 1992                   No.S-226.
nutrition policy over the long term. Specifically, the Government
plans to pursue initial discussions with: (i) the Inter-American
Development Bank regarding a US$30.0 million soft loan to assist
the FAP programs; (ii) the World Food Program regarding a follow-up
grant of US$10.0 million equivalent in monetized food aid; and
(iii) the rJnited States Agency for International Development,
regarding the possible monetization of a larger share of its food
aid to Honduras.
Public Health Services
7.   To address the health problems facing the Honduran population
of the short and medium-term, the Government has started to take
a number of measures to strengthen the MOH institutional capacity
in the areas of personnel administration, financial management, and
management of pharmaceutical supplies. The Government will aloo
introduce specific reforms in the delivery of hospital and primary
health care services, carrying out specific studies upon which
these reforms would be based, as necessary. Finally, the Government
will improve the MOH system of epidemiological surveillance to
further reduce the incidence of transmissible diseases. This
sector's specific objectives are described below.
(a)  Tncreese the efficiency of the MOH  ersonnel administration.
by: (a) increasing the number of nurses, dentists,
microbiologists and masters in public health by 1995, in order
to improve the mix of human resources in the sector;
(b) expanding the supply of auxiliary nurses and health
technicians, including laboratory, X-Ray, anesthesiology, and
environmental health promoters trained each year by the MOH,
stabilizing the number of graduated auxiliary nurees at 600
per year by 1993; (c) modernizing and intensifying in-service
training programs; td) further develop the computerized
personnel registry system; (e)continuing to reallocate
personnel according to service priority needs and individual
skills;  and   (f) proceed to evaluate  the MOH system of
personnel administration in the context of the new Law of
Modernization of the State;
(b) Tncrease the efficiency of the MOH financial Adminintration
through:    (a)  further decentralization  of  the budgetary



- 118 -                           Annex 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C. November 18, 195Z -                 No.. S.-226.
process, by expanding the management information system (MIS)
to include the modules pertaining to financial administration,
administration of materials and pharmaceutical supplies, and
administration of personnel at the region and central level;
(b) preparation and implementation of a budgetary reform for
the MOH; (c) rationalization of personnel compensation policy
through implementation of salary adJustments conducive to
reducing the gap between doctors' salaries and those paid for
nursing and auxiliary nursing services have been introduced in
1992 and incorporated in the 1992 MOH budget;  (d) evaluation
of the performance of the cost recovery system and preparation
of an action plan to introduce improvements in such system by
December 6, 1993 and implementation of such plan during 1994-
1995; (e) extension of the computerized system of productivity
control, resources and costs, developed for 9 hospitals to all
26 hospitals of the country by 1994;
(c)  rncreame nccessibilitv and auality of Drimarv health care
services (PHC) provided by the MOH. through:
(a)   consolidation   of   local   planning   and   community
participation;   (b) implementation of the new supervision
system that combines field supervision with group meetings by
1993; (c) implementation of an integrated service delivery
model in parallel with quality improvements; (d) increases in
the number of staff allocated to PHC services by posting one
additional auxiliary nurse at each CESAR serving more than
1,500 people and by allocating a permanent doctor. to each
CESAMO; and (e) improvement in the efficiency of referral and
counter-referral systems through better communication links
between service units at all levels;
(d)  Imorove the gualitv and efficiency of hobDital  services.
through: (a) extension of the system of aelf-evaluation and
accreditation from 10 to 26 hospitals; (b) completion of the
program of repairs on buildings and auxiliary facilities by
1993;   (c) preparation and implementation of a systematic
hospital maintenance plan, including supply of necessary spare
parts for fixed and mobile equipment and vehicles;
(d) strengthening of systems aimed at improving hospital
productivity, particularly accreditation, cost control, and



- 119 -
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C. November 18, 1992                   No.S226
cost recovery; and (e) periodic revision and adjustment to
staff training programs;
(e)  Tmorove  the  Drovision  of medicinea  And  health  siruvlies
nationwide through: (a) applying rigorously the new Sanitary
Codes for the control of pharmaceutical products that are
imported, produced, or sold in the country; (b) increasing
the proportion of generic drugs over total drugs procured by
the public sector; and (c) promote the production of critical
health supplies within the country; this is planned to be
implemented by 1994;
(f)  Consolidate  and exoand the MOH svstem  of e2idemiological
surveillAnce through expansion of the computerized system of
epidemiological surveillance to all areas of the variouas
health regions of the country;
(g)  Continue Ane exnend tht-  cntrol of trmnsmih1gl diseese-
through intensification of control activities targeted to
diseases that account for the highest incidence of morbidity
and  mortality,  especially  diarrhea,  acute  respiratory
infections, malaria, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted
diseases, particularly AIDS; and,
(h)  Mobilize   mmunity D         tinn for health through further
decentralization of health and nutrition services at the
regional and municipal levels, directly involving local
communities.
Water SuD1pY and Sanitation Services
B.   The three main institutions active in the water supply and
sanitation sector are the National Water and Sewerage Service
Company (SANMAA), the MOH and the municipalities. Through SANAA, the
Government plans to continue improving and expanding coverage of
water supply and sewerage services in urban areas, aiming at
achieving the following physical targets during the 1993-95 period;
(a) completion of water production works associated with the
Tegucigalpa dam;               (b) improvement of water treatment
facilities  in  Tegucigalpa;      (c)  improvement  of  the  water
distribution network in Tegucigalpa to expand coverage, reduce
A^



- 120 -                          Annex 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C. Noventer 18, 1992                   No. X.-226
losses and ensure appropriate quality control standards;   (d)
completion of water supply systems that were initiated in 5
intermediary cities and preparation of engineering designs for an
additional 20 cities; and (e) completion of sewerage works in one
medium-sized city.
9.   The National Water and sewerage Service Company's (SANAA)
medium-term investment policy is supported by the parallel
development of the sector's institutional organization through
administrative  decentralization,  whereby  the  operation  and
maintenance of the water supply and sewerage systems is transferred
to local entities, either municipalities or Local Water Boards
(Juntas Admnistradoras de Agua - JUNTAS), based on legal
instruments already in place that ensure adequate cost recovery and
organization at the local level.
10. Through the MOH, the Government plans to expand the supply of
rural potable water and sanitation services with community
participation by: (a)construction of simple water supply systems,
shallow wells, latrines, septic tanks and small sewerage systems in
priority rural and marginal urban areas currently unserved,
benefitting and additional 300,000 inhabitants by December 31,
1995; (b) intensification of education and promotion activities
focusing on environmental health; (c) improvement in the quality
of the water of existing systems through water treatment and
periodical teats; and (d) continuing training local JUNTAS to
recover costs from the beneficiaries ensuring uninterrupted service
operation and maintenance.
11. The municipalities are progreasively taking over from SANAA
the responsibility for building, operating and maintaining their
water, sewerage and drainage systems. Formally, responsibility for
basic services has been transferred to local governments through a
Municipal Law approved by Congress in 1991. In practice, over a
thousand water systems and some 40 sewerage systems have already
been transferred to municipal authorities for operation and
maintenance.      The   Government   plans   to   continue   this
decentralization process at the same time it provides the necessary
technical assistance to strengthen local capacity to administer and
operate the syatems.
12. However, the sector still lacks overall coordination and,



- 121 -                           Ann&x  IS
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONlDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C.     18, 1992                         NoS-226
sometimes, agencies exerciae overlapping activities. Thus, the
Government recognizes the need to restructure the water supply and
sanitation sector and to further promote its institutional
development. To this end, in 1993, the Government Plans to
undertake a study to analyze the main sector iasues, decide on
appropriate solutions, taking into account the new municipal law by
December 31, 1993, and start implementing appropriate measures by
February 1., 1994. Specifically, the study would focus on: (a) the
sector organization; (b) the policies that guide' the supply of
potable water and sewerage services, including criteria for
ensuring protection of critical watersheds and attention to
downatream water quality; (c) the aector investment policies; (d)
the atrategy and appropriate mechanisma for the transfer of water
and saewerage syatems to the municipalities; (e) the development and
implementation of more efficient financial. accounting, collections
and auditing systems, and (f) establishment of norms regulating
cost recovery for water and sewerage services throughout the
country ao aa to guarantee efficiency and financial stability in
the sector. In parallel, the National Water and Sewerage Service
Company will continue ita program to improve its central
administration, especially in the financial and commercial
managerial areas, completing the updating of users' registry, and
improving medium level managerial staff through in-service
training.
Monitoring Syetem to Meaurpe Progress in SociAl Service Delivery
13. The Government of Honduras haa expanded its regular data
collection program through the creation of special module to
monitor the impact of its social programs on the welfare of the
Honduran population. Specifically, the multiple purposes household
survey has been expanded to incorporate a Living Standards
Measurement Survey, including key social variables and consumption
patterna in addition to basic demographic, employment and income
information. This survey was introduced as a component under the
SIF-I project with aupport from IDA. At present, improvements are
needed to effectively tranaform the survey into a useful monitoring
tool to aosist the Government in adjuating its social sector
policies according to measurable reaulta. Improvements will be
introduced to strengthen data reliability and analysis and
disseminate survey results more broadly, specifically, data



- 122 -                           AnneX 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS               SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C.                                      No.- 
NOVember 18, 1992
analysis and dissemination will be facilitated through improved
computer technologies that make the survey data accessible to users
of small computers and reliability of survey results will be
improved by improved sampling techniques combined with a continuous
surveying schedule. These improvements are being planned and would
be completed by early 1993. The analyses based on the survey data
will be coordinated by the SCES and their results will be
transmitted to the appropriate social agency for policy or program
adjustment, as needed.
Social Cabinet Executive Secretariat
14. The Social Cabinet Executive Secretariat was created in 1991
with the basic objective of providing technical assistance to the
Social Cabinet on human resources development. The Secretariat has
two major functions which help the Government implement its social
sector policy reforms: (i) it helps coordinate the Government's
social sector policies and programs undertaken by various ministry
line and agencies; and (ii) it monitors the achievements of the
Government's  targets  for  the  social  sectors,  analyzes  the
effectiveness of social programs and provides feedback to the
Social Cabinet.   During the implementation of the Nutrition and
Health  Project,  the  SCES's  coordinating  function  and  its
institutional capacity will be reviewed as part of the project's
annual reviews.
The Nutrition and Health Project
15. The Nutrition and Health Project. for which the Government has
requested IDA assistance and which will require donor support, is
fully consistent with the Government's human resources development
strategy, focusing on actions to increase access to primary health
services, promote food security and nutrition assistance, and
expand potable water supply and sanitation in order to reach
targets specified within that project and agreed with IDA. The
planned review of the Government's nutrition assistance policy will
take place during the first year of implementation of that project
and the actual phasing of nutrition assistance reform actions will
be discussed with IDA and confirmed at the first annual project



- 123 -                           Annex 18
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
HONDURAS              SECTOR POLICY LETTER
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C.    Novenber 18, 1992                No
implementation review in December, 1993. During the annual project
implementation reviews, we will also review the share of social
sector expenditures based on the recommendations of the social
sectors' budget study carried out during 1993.
Sincerely yours,
Benjamin V   anue
-=, \~~~~~~



- 124 -                            Anngx 19
DRAFT OUTLINE OF
HONDURAS            PRAF OPERATIONAL MANUAL
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DRAFT OUTLINES
PRAF OPERATIONAL MANUALS
BMI FOOD COUPON PROGRAM
Chapter 1.  Introduction
Chapter 2.  Basic Elements
Chapter 3.  Criteria for Selection of Beneficiaries
Chapter 4.  Operational Procedures
4.1   General Planning
4.2   Operations:
- Identification of Beneficiaries
- Emission of Coupons
- Classification and Transfer of Coupons
- Distribution of Coupons to Health Centers
- Distribution of Coupons to Beneficiaries
- Reprogramming of Coupons
- Marketing: identification, training and supervision of
participating merchants
- Information to Beneficiaries
- Redemption of Coupons
- Administration
Annexes
BMJF FOOD COUPON PROGRAM
Chapter 1.  Introduction
Chapter 2.  Basic Elements
Chapter 3.  Criteria for Selection of Beneficiaries
Chapter 4.  Operational Procedures
4.1   General Planning
4.2   Operations:
- Identification of Beneficiaries
- Preparation of Lists of Beneficiaries
- Emission of Coupons
- Classification of Coupons
- Marketing: identification, training and supervision of
participating merchants
- Information to Beneficiaries
- Distribution of Coupons to Beneficiaries
- Redemption of Coupons
- Administration
Annexes
January 1992



- 125 -                             Annex 20
DRAFT OUTLINE OF WATER SUPPLY
HONDURAS           & SANITATION OPER. MANUAL
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
DRAFT OUTLINE
OF WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
A.    Model of request for legal registration of a JUNTA
B.    Model of contract between the MOH and a JUNTA for the construction of
rural water supply subprojects
C.    Model contract agreement between the MOH and a JUNTA for the
administration, operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems
D.    Basic engineering norms for the construction of rural water supply
systems
E.    Implementation plan for the construction of rural water supply systems
F.    Selection criteria and sample of communities selected for the execution
of water supply and sanitation subprojects
G.    Regulations for services to be provided by water supply systems
H.    Regulations for the administration, operation and maintenance of water
supply systems, to be adopted by a JUNTA
I.    Model private contract agreement for the right of way for water supply
systems
J.    Model consultanta' contract for engineering services for the design of
rural water supply systems
K.    Prototype engineering designs for rural water supply and sanitation
subprojects
L.    Basic tools to be provided to a JUNTA for the operation and maintenance
of rural water supply systems



- 126 -                             Annex 21
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
HONDURAS           AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
NUTRITION AND HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Agua para el Pueblo (APP). Proarama de Organizaci6n v Capacitaci6n de
Juntas Administradoras de Provectos de Aqua Potable v Alcantarillado
Sanitario Financiados oor el Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social FHIS,
Noviembre 1991 (12 p.).
2.    AID. Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar - Reoorte Financiero. No.91.
Oficina de Contraloria, August 1991.
3.    Alves de Brito, S. A. Honduras: Provecto de Reestructuracion del Sector
Social: Sistema de Analisis de Cayacidad Institucional, (Annexos) Agosto
1991.
4.    Atalah S., E. Evaluaci6n del Provecto Piloto: Bono Materno Infantil en
Honduras, Septiembre 1991 (30 p.).
5.    Baume, C'.; Zeldin, L.; Rosenbaum, J; Academy for Educational
Development, Breast-feeding and Weaning Practices in Honduras; Nutrition
Communication Proiect - Baseline Study, 1991 (60 p.).
6.    Clara Noguera C., M. Asesoria al Proarama de Asignaci6n Familiar (PRAF)
en el Area de Organizaci6n v Administraci6n de sus Provectos, Enero 1992
(40 p).
7.    Escoto, Dr. L. R., MOH. Modelo de Supervisi6n Realizada por Personal de
Saneamiento Ambiental del Ministerio de Salud en los Provectos de Aqua v
SaneamientQ, Febrero 1992 (5 p.).
8.    Franklin, R.; Parillon D.,C. Suggestions for a Nutritional Strateov for
The United States Agencv for International Development Mission to
Honduras, November 1989 (30 p.).
9.    Franklin, R. Targeting Poverty Groups in Honduras: Some Preliminarv
Estimates and Scenarios, May 1990 (30 p.).
10.   Garcia U., M.; Norton, R. D.; Cambar, M. P.; van Haeften, R.
Agricultural Development Policies in Honduras: A Consumotion
Perspective, U.S. Department of Agriculture with USAID, February 1988
(200 p.).
11.   Girardi, S. N. Estudio de Personal de Salud en Honduras, January 1992
(30 p.).
12.   GOH. Plan Nacional de Acci6n: Desarrollo Humano. Infancia v Juventud.
1992-2000, 1991 (70 p.).
13.   Grosh, M. Analysis and Recommendations for the Bono Materno Infantil and
Bono Madre Jefe de Familia. Annex 5. Aide Memoire, Identification
Mission for Health and Nutrition Project, Tegucigalpa, September-October
1991.



- 127 -                             Annex 21
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
14.   Grosh, M. (ed.). From Platitudes to Practice: Targeting Social Programs
in Latin America. Latin America and Caribbean Technical Department
Regional Studies Program No. 21, September 1992).
15.   IDA. Honduras: Proposed Health and Nutrition Proiect - Progress Report
on Proiect Preparation, Prepared for the Consultative Group Meeting for
Honduras, Washington, D.C. March 1992.
16.   IDB. Ex-Post Evaluation of the National Health Services Program
(PRONASSA), Loans 441/SF &1/NF, April 1987 (232 p).
17.   INCAP. Evaluaci6n Inicial del Programa de Asicmnaci6n Familiar (PRAF),
Marzo 1992 (30 p.).
18.   Kawas, C.M., et al. Estudio de la Percepci6n cue los Usuarios v
Proveedores tienen de los Servicios de Atenci6n Primaria en Honduras,
Tegucigalpa, March 1992.
19.   Management Sciences for Health. Olson, C. Informe de la Asesoria - El
Suministro de Medicamentos Para el Ministerio de Salud P(iblica:
Recommendaciones Anteriores. Adcruisiciones v Medicamentos en Hospitales,
Abril 1990 (40 p.).
20.   Management Sciences for Health. Bates, J. Informe de la Asesoria -
Proceso Para el Meioramiento del Sistema de Suministro de Medicamentos,
Febrero 1991 (50 p.).
21.   McGinn, N.; Soto, M. C.; Lopez, S.; Loera, A.; Cassidy, T.;
Schiefelbein, E.; Reimers, F. Estudio sobre Repitencia v Deserci6n en
Honduras: Asistir v Awrender o Renetir v Desertar (Un estudio sobre los
factores cue contribuven a la repitencia en la escuela nrimaria en
Honduras, Junio 1991 (40 p).
22.   MOH, Dept. de Estadistica. Informaci6n Basica de los Municipios de
Honduras, 1991 (40 p.).
23.   MOH, Encuesta Nacional de Nutrici6n: Cuadros de Frecuencia por Repiones
de Salud v Nacionales, 1987 (140 p.).
24.   MOH, Encuesta Nacional de Nutrici6n: Reci6n de Salud, No. 1; No. 3, 1987
(140 p. ea).
25.   MOH, Programa de Saneamiento Basico. Salud: Derecho v Deber de Todos,
Proyecto: Capacitaci6n de Juntas de Agua Comunitarias de Area Rural para
Operaci6n y Mantenimiento de los Sistemas de Agua Potable, Septiembre
1989.
26.   MOH, Programa de Saneamiento Basico. Salud: Derecho v Deber de Todos,
Perfiles de Proyectos - Area Saneamiento Ambiental, 1991.
27.   Musgrove, P. Feeding Latin America's Children: An Analytical Survey of
Food Programs. Latin America and the Caribbean Technical Department,



- 128 -                             Annex 21
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Human Resources Division, Regional Studies Program, World Bank,
Washington, D.C.: November 1991.
28.   Noguera, Maria Clara C. Asesoria al Proqrama de Asiqnaci6n Familiar
(PRAF) en el Area de Organization v Administraci6n de sus Provectos,
PRAF working paper, Tegucigalpa: January 1992.
29.   Ochoa, M. Plan Piloto Dara el Provecto de Bono Materno Infantil, PRAF
working paper, August 1990.
30.   Ochoa, M. Plan de Expansi6n Nacional Dara los Provectos de Bono Muler
Jefe de Familia v de Bono Materno Infantil 1992-1994, PRAF working
paper, January 1992.
31.   PAHO; WHO. La Mortalidad de la Nifiez en las Americas: Tendencias v
Diferenciales - AnAlisis de Casos, 1991 (70 p.).
32.   PRAF. Executive Summary, March 1992.
33.   PRAF. Maternal Food Coupon Program (BMI) Progress ReDort: December 1990
- December 1991, March 1992.
34.   PRAF. Women Head of Household Food Coupon Program (BMJF). Impact on
Elementary School Enrollment; Goals and Coverage, March 1992.
35.   PRAF, MOH; RUTA. Plan Piloto para el Provecto de Bono Materno Infantil,
Agosto 1990 (70 p.).
36.   Roschke, M. A. Analisis de los Proaramas de Salud Plan - InteQrado Salud
Educaci6n v Provecto PRODERE: Provecto de Salud v Nutrici6n en Honduras,
Noviembre 1991 (20 p).
37.   Sant'Anna, A. FHIS: Provecto Preoaraci6n Report on the Water and
Sewerage Sector, October 1990 (60 p).
38.   SECPLAN. C&lculo de la Canasta Basica de Alimentos Nivel Nacional. 1992,
Tegucigalpa: May 1992.
39.   SECPLAN. Criterios para la Filaci6n de la Politica de Salarios en
Honduras, Marzo 1991.
40.   SECPLAN. Niveles de Fecundidad v Politicas de Poblaci6n, Agosto 1991,
Honduras (100 p).
41.   Tenorio M., L. A.; Elvir O., R.A. Cuantificaci6n v Caracterizaci6n de la
Participaci6n de los Padres de Familia v Oraanizaciones Comunales en
ADovo a la Educaci6n Primaria, Junio 1991.
42.   UNICEF; UNDP; World Bank; PAHO; WHO. Identificaci6n Mission to Central
America of the Collaborative Program for the Water & Sanitation Sector,
August 1991.



- 129 -                              Annex 21
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
43.   UNO y UNO Consultores. Las aue Traba-jan Mas Para Ganar Menos: Las
Muieres v la Crisis en los Noventa, Tegucigalpa: UNO, August 1991.
44.   Vargas, V. Recommedations for a Nutritional Research Strategy Based on a
Food Programs Evaluation, January 1992 (20 p.). Note: Sant'Anna
Reviewed.
45.   Vial, I. Evaluaci6n Rapida v Preliminar del Provecto: Bono Muier Jefe de
Familia de Honduras, Septiembre 1991 (30 p).
46.   Winter, Carolyn. Women's Country Assessment Paper: Honduras, Draft
Report No. 11035-HO, World Bank, Washington, D.C., September 1992 (28
p).
47.   World Bank. Honduras: Prospects for Public Sector Reform, Volume 1:
Summary of Main Findings and Recommendations, Volume 2: The Main Report,
No. 10318-HO, April 1992.
48.   World Bank. Honduras: Second Social Investment Fund Project, No.10451-
HO, May 1992.
49.   World Bank. Honduras: Social Investment Fund Projects, No. 9148-HO,
February 1991.
50.   World Bank. Honduras: Social Investment Fund Proiect (Credit 2212-HO)
Mid-Term Review, No. 10281-HO, January 1992.
51.   World Bank. Honduras: Social Sector Programs, No. 9093-HO, November 1990
(70 p).
52.   World Bank.  From Platitudes to Practice:  Targeting Social Programs in
Latin America (2 Vols.), No. 10720-LAC, Washington, D.C.: June 1992
53.   Winter, Carolyn. Labor Legislation and Women's Employment and Pay in
Honduras, Draft Report No. 10992-HO, World Bank, Washington, D.C.: July
1992 (26 p.).






!    '    si.                                                                 S'7 b-                                                                     s5*s
BEUZE                                                                                              Wdhb   ISLAS DE LA BAHIA
I  U;bla nd
16- [                                                                                                                     - Cale                                                                                                          lotio   
_    O                   0        T     AEA       
0
c,5Fs~~~~~~~~~~~~.6 /                                           -_v s
$ SAN PE*DO                                                                    -0 Sab
(   nAz,ARARAe       \      g -      OEI Copnk    ~   Z                                          i0. A 4-                                                C,  AC*i 
m   .   v             J             Mi & OroO   X          >   e               P A                                                   p      \                       ~~~~06-hs. 
2,2 lEl Po -3                                                                                                     - - - L   
C     6                             (>  OSiC' /AA-                                                              OAf C> -p^  Soaiol                            ANUR                    RTSO-CIDE
14 A ROSA L                                                                                                                                                                                    o,_,  i z    Ss4   7 {  w J    (X>  t >   chiciicosb      p-' PROJECT DEPARTMENTS 1A A
SAVAE U                            r- 4                              Ca&oo0ASOr 
89-   '      /      \~~~ ~ ~-   J           cr          -       YU8CAog RiN  )E oos     
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                 YON                                                                                                                         PUERTOno Cpio
OC    IOU!                                                    o                                                                                                    HONDURASC.'LEM`IR
~ ~~ZA~~~L A5EAZ                                      AU
5(gr,rjpSR                               oLK-                                                                                                        MLUIO  RATES OF CHILDREN
TAROSAO ;11"~C                                                                 aa aro                                                                    - YAR   F  G
>   Et~     E                         X._)                     s0              LLTEOUIOP                 Ctoonu a             -i m.                                                 PROEC Dttnp       yTeWW  on  hfXl  iePATMNT
M ~    ~       ~        1                       ,-                                                                                                                                                   I.S
SALVADOR                                                                     P~~~~~~~~~~~~.010APnALSA
1~~~~~~06 0                                                   4-~~- ~ F.,,                                                                                           dprtet
AE5~~~~~~~~~%I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~                                                                                             SAL U RIINatoa  CApTESOl                     HLD E
~~~'  i1k1                             / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(          Son Morcoo0
14-                                                                                P~~~~~~~~~on.rao  A 1f ~In (          50o   LMTES0                                        Deatmn   aptl
SAL A  LVADORSCA ANOEI Po isoThWr~
NICARAGUA            3 9(~'~                                 it,.cnity~ninnc of 'soda, and, fr itt. nl.rn~a~0.~f    frd9~~,      -   DeprtmenteBoundarie
COSTA RICA                                                                    niply, on itt. part afThs World~~~~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~ Dakop  neprtmnatia Boundaries
anit. l.ga ti-                                          S-a-loiayorayodrsnnto ceinno   M0F, S.r,~,a.d. AIi,.ns.ctna E,c.l., d. H.d,~,t,(SAEH)l,  0
'0  c~~~~~OoaaIA  R8~~~~~~~~                  67        ~      ~       ~      ~      .                                                     C.n.n E,nolan TaIla-Edad, 1991                          OSC.)~~~~C- E1. 7.1.Ed., ,99  c



