Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24429
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(!D)A-2452;?I IDA-242)Aql
A1NT A
r 1 VrOulM 1    OFU$L- LO
T t-% AT lTf'D V ThT'1'II¶n AXTY'I
TkT 'TIV I      I I.ra r   an   ti L%.r l  Y *,h
UIN I -if tu.V ~Ui'14 I 'j Uaz IVU~L V'IN
TO THiE
HOI-ULiUAS
FOR A
H1N/^NU TRiTiON/'{HEALT'H
06/29/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
US$16.40 = US$1
US$ C1 = L16.40
T P  LI f.A'
FISCAT YEAR
Januarv I to DeGember 31
ABRRRF.VIATTONS AND ACRONYMS
FHIS             Honduras Social Investment Fund
G-DP~~~.oS          Gr'oM ss.  Do.-. lstPoduc
GOH              Government of Honduras
ICB         ~~~~IntLem-ati-or.al' Con-1petitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOH              Ministry of Health
PAHO             Pan-American Health Organization
PCU              Project Coordinating Unit
PRAF             Family Assistance Program
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WB               World Bank
'Vice President              David de Ferranti
Country Director            Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director             Ana Maria Arriagada
Sector Manager              Evangeline Javier
Sector Leader               Helena Ribe
Team Leader                 Maria-Luisa Escobar



HONDURAS
HN/NUTRITION/HEALTH
CONTENTSq
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 17
9. P                                                                               18
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs andiBenefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratinys of Bahk and Borrower Performance                                  28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              29






Project ID: P007392                                        Project Name: HN/NUTRITION/HEALTH
I A sunL I,uuL.  Tv.i.:--  U- 4i -- --l -                  7    LY . T.- ITILf
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HN/NUTRITION/HEALTH                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-24521;
TrnA IACqA
Country/Department: HONDURAS                                              Region: Latin America and
C--i.bbean Rvegion
Sector/subsector: HN - Nutrition
KEY DATES
PCD:   08/01/1991                              Effective: 02/05/1993         09/08/1993
app. t..4. ')/I A~ /I01                            AVSfl.AC/ JU1J1Uone        A7LJ 1774
Appra.;sa.'   12/1/199                              ^-fTR       Li/5/995       O951995 71.
Approval:  01/05/1993                               Closing: 06/30/1997          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency   GOVERNMENT/MOH; GOVERNMENT/PRAF; GOVERNMENT/SCES
OthhrcPrtnersv
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:       Davidde Ferranti                          Shaid Husain
Country Manager:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                     Rainer B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:       Charles Griffin                            Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at /CR:   Maria-Luisa Escobar                       Anna Maria Sant'Anna
ICR Primary Author:   Luis Pisahi; Ruth Levine
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory- H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional DeveDnmeftit-lmDact M'
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Performance." S
Q AG (if available)       ICR
Qudlith at Entry:                         S
Project at- Risk-.ar-Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to: (a) protect groups particularly vulnerable to the economic adjustment
process by channeling nutrition assistance to the poorest children and pregnant and nursing
women; (b) support the development and implementation of a longer-term nutrition assistance
strategy for Honduras; (c) reduce maternal, child, and infant mortality and morbidity rates by
improving acceqq to basic health service- and safe water s pnlv and sanitation by imnroving the
quality of services provided by the Ministry of Health (MOH), and by supporting health, nutrition,
arnd faLCily FlaLrIningr edUc%a.l;LI ac.A;vities;0 (d) DUeng1UIVen UV,ul :.ns+.L.^U.6;olal c,apacil.y VI vuhelxvl  he%.IL l,
Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar, or PRAF) and the Social Cabinet
Executive Secretariat (SCES) for sector planning and programming, monitoring, and evaluation,
and improve efficiency in the procurement of drugs; and (e) control the spread of AIDS. Specific
targets for improved outcomes were not set at appraisal, reinforcing the main tenant of the project
as an instrument to prevent deterioration of nutrition, health and education conditions among the
most vulnerable segments of the population.
As the Government launched an extensive economic adjustment program in the early 1990s, it
was aware of uiLe likely 1Va.L1Ve  VIet   ULosh aUJU0tlV,1lL pLrULalil VIL ULe real :ncIUr.V VI uil
poorest families, with potentially serious health and nutrition consequences, particularly among
poor pregnant ana nursmg mothers ana children under five. It was feared that the welfare of
children from poor families might deteriorate as parents faced increased economic pressure, and
withdrew children from school to put them to work. The seriousness of such potential
developments, against the background of the country's underlying chronic poverty, spurred the
Government to establish two innovative safety net programs in 1990. First, the Honduran Social
Investment Fund (Fnndn Hnndurefin de !nv.veiin Snral Or ForTHTS) which financed
labor-intensive social and economic infrastructure, social services and informal sector subprojects.
ru.u seconILUd  L r, the pD whIch poIvidue i.uuLLivuau assistalrlce UnrUUgI iULancial incealt:iLven fio uv
most vulnerable groups. The PRAF has pioneered demand-side interventions in Latin America by
combining supporting desirable healith and education outcomes thorough providing incentives to
mothers to take their children to health centers for well-child care and to keep them in school,
while at the same time supporting the objective of reducing child malnutrition. The incentives
took the form of food coupons distributed to poor mothers: the Bono Materno-Infantil
(matemal-child coupon) and the Bono Escolar (coupon for school-age children). Both the FHIS
and thie PR AF w ere endnorsed and supported by TDA
tUA IDJt% LAIL VI reit %. L 1.0 iIIilliVi, eqLulivale.L Lt US$ 2J.0 rrilioIn was appiveud JueIV J, 1777.
Parallel financing would be provided byUSAID, the World Food Program, UNDP, UNICEF,
PAHO and other donors, as well as project beneficiaries.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Supplemental Credit was prompted by hurricane Mitch, the most calamitous natural disaster
affecting the country in this century. In particular, additional funding was required to prevent
famine, epidemics and massive deterioration of health conditions. To respond to this new
situation, the Supplemental Credit, like the original Credit, aimed to reduce matemal and child
mortality and morbidity by increasing access to basic health services and to water and sanitation
-2 -



services; to improve nutritional services for the poorest segment of the population; and to
strength.en the institutional caparity of the MOH to control the spread of communicable diseases.
Edipemiological surveillance and disease prevention and control activities became crucial after the
emi-ergencey au'e inncidenlce of' cole,u-il m  laiaruaa derlglie, 1eptosp:.. oss and .ueclswsrs-g
The project also aimed to support vector control and disease prevention activities. Thus, the
original project objectives were reinforced but not changed.
A Supplemental Credit of SDR 7.5 million, equivalent to US$ 10.4 million, was approved by the
Board on January 28, 1999, less than three-month following hurricane Mitch. At that time, the
closing date for the project was extended by one year from 12/31/1999 to 12/31/2000, and
subsequently by ana dditional six months to Tune 30, 2001, in order to permit comnietion of
project activities.
3.3 Original Components:
The original Health and .Juf&tion Project incl.uded fouironen.e:
1~~ffi~~ - Y  ~ ~   ~~  /TT~' 
A. Expanding Nutrition Assistance and Developingg aLonger-Lerin 'Nutrition Policy (US$ 32.4
million equivalent with contingencies, or 60 percent of total original project cost) through: (i)
formulation and implementation of a longer-term nutrition policy; (ii) expansion of food
supplements through the PRAF food coupon programs to about 255,000 poor, pregnant and
nursing women, children under five, and primary school children in the 13 departments with the
highest malnutrition rates: (iii) technical assistance to strengthen PRAF's institutional capacity to
administer the program in the project area; (iv) nutrition education for health staff, community
workers and  othLers focusin.g on, breasit-feedintg, wlleaning arnd early chi lhood feeding prctices;
and (v) annual nutrition censuses at public primary schools.
B. Strengthening the Delivery of Basic Health Services (US$ 16.9 million equivalent with
contingencies, or 31 percent of total original project cost) through: (i) rehabilitation of about 130
health care centers and construction of an estimated 30 additional health centers in priority rural
areas where services were unavailable; (ii) improvement of MOH institutional capacity through
additional staff. staff training and supervision and institutional support to the proiect unit of the
MOH; (iii) incremental costs of drugs for the primary health care network and technical assistance
to mprovete effliciency of phlr.m.aice t; .al r%r ,rpint* a.tid (iv) support of th.e fior.mnulation and
implementation of a medium-term national AIDS control program.
C. Improving Environmental Health (US$ 3.8 million equivalent with contingencies, or 7 percent
of total original program cost) through: (i) rural water supply and rural sanitation improvements
supported by community participation, benefiting about 60,000 people in poor underserved
communities in four departments; and (ii) a medical waste disposal training program.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation, and Auditing (US$ 1.1 million equivalent with contingencies, or 2
percent of total original project cost), including ini¶tihtional strengthening of the SCES atind
project administration.
-3-



3.4 Revised Components:
The Supplemental Credit continued to SUDDort the original Droiect components and to strengthen
them. The changes made include the addition of one component (B2) and the elimination of one
iih_i.-.nmnen.nt (VA iuv) a depsr.ehpi hblnw
AN. NuuitiorItt iAssjistance u  0. IiliiWI equivaient WIUL uUI1lIgullu ol r 01 V.9 pecILeL VI LUL4I
supplemental project cost) including support for the improvement of breast-feeding practices by
strengthening existing breast-feeding training programs, and a pilot program of integral health
care delivery for children under five.
B. S   e        Basic Health Services (US$ 4.0 million equivalent with contingencies, or 34.5
percent of total supplemental project cost) including (i) infrastructure rehabilitation and equipment
of s.ome of the health centers in pnnr om,mlinitipe r2mnaped hu hiirtrinnne Mitch; (ii) nnnctirction
and equipment of two birthing centers (Clinicas Maternas); (iii) purchase of four ambulances; and
(iv) exparLlsol of lu^ audio co,UlUrI1I1I;LIcain i1n14bULULUIC^ bUArbUI UerIUV succssiull deveope urdlU^ogirlal
project, including a feasibility study for a data communications system to exchange statistical data
among health facilities.
B2. Epidemiological Surveillance. Disease Prevention and Control (US$ 3.7 million equivalent
with contingencies, or 31.9 percent of supplemental project cost) including: (i) rehabilitation of
the cold chain network for vaccine storage; (ii) laboratory improvements through investments in
Pniimpmvnvt for a netwnrkc nf 1.qbontnri:es (iii) trAining in r_pinid nP1zte1mPn.t tPrli-nniques appliedi to
laboratory test work, and a group of epidemiologists to carry out such training in situ; (iv)
operational expenditures for the national vaccination campaigns in 1999, and mobilization of
vector control brigades and health promoters to rural areas, including the purchase of motorcycles
for community outreach; and (vi) large information, education and communication campaigns to
induce behavioral changes among the population, aimed at preventing the spread of
communicable diseases.
r  Tmnrnro na1 Envirnnmeint-! Hepalth TTq 'A A mil!ion Pn11ivvlPnt uith connnt1nennipci nr 293 
percent of total supplemental project cost) through (i) extension of water and sanitation coverage
to [ural coL1IUnunitiLs n0t Ibe iig seVred yet, aUIU [e storing srv-i ce 'Lo UI-s commIULies wheL ---
systems were damaged by Hurricane Mitch; and (ii) extension of the medical waste program to
two additional health areas experiencing communicable diseases outbreaks as a direct result of
hurricane Mitch.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation. and Auditine (US$ 0.4 million equivalent with contingencies, or 3.4
percent of total supplemental project cost) including an additional vehicle to facilitate supervision
irn ar -I    r V  inftV 11*i n     *Sfifll 4rp   hiirr;fan Ir1am nmg, nr. * tim. limS*   Aniei* f nnl *tiaff.
hne moUdficaions introd-uced by tLhe Saupplemental Credii to tue proJect COmrpOnentS were
designed to achieve a balance between the actions that could reasonably be expected to have
important short-term benefits, and those that might result in longer-term benefits through
institutional strengthening and policy development. As demonstrated in Section 4, below, the
- 4 -



short-term aims proved to be more achievable than the longer-term goals.
In subsequent sections, this report uses project cost figures that aggregate the original and the
supplementa> credit amounts. Tn qom- cases, Supplemental Compnnent B2 to B are combined, in
order to facilitate comparisons between appraisal and actual figures. Total project cost at
appraisal l a;lgg t rulb.,is est.atdaUS658,,linvi.cotrgeces(n,x2)
These costs are distributed by component as follows: Component A. US$ 32.5 million;
Component B. US$ 24.6 miiiion; Component C. US$7.2 miiiion; ana Component D. US$i.5
million equivalent.
3.S Quality at Entry:
The project was designed before routine quality assessments were instituted, thus there is no
QAG rating. However, for the purposes of this report the project's quality at entry is rated as
satisfactory. The project design was consistent with the 1991 Population, Health and Nutrition
Sectnr Review; and built on the IDA's active involvement in the Government's povertv alleviation
efforts, including support for the FHIS, for a water supply project, for the Living Standards
Measurement S-v-,ey as well as for tec,hcal assistance provided to P Alp r.nr to nroject
inception. The preparation of the original project was supported at both political and technical
. I-  -  I  --    -- _ -- in~1 -    ~A   --- _ -J
levels, and incorporated reievant iessons. it represented the first project in ule Latin tArenca and
the Caribbean region in which demand-side incentives (food coupons) were combined with
strengthening the supply side (MOH institutional capacity-building) to form a coherent social
protection strategy. The design innovations of the project have became a model for social
protection interventions in other countries. With respect to the Supplemental Credit, its main
virhte was that of a clear focus on controlling the spread of communicable diseases and it
opportune timing. It represented a quickly and appropriate response to the post-hurricane health
-Al .-.u;.fion needs~, c1ara-terived b caef!! valaM4--o ofng=ro.yi..<r.;on  ime at
minimizing the risks of an epidemic and famine.
For both the original and the supplemental credits, the development objectives were realistic and
consistent with the Government's strategy, which addressed the priority needs in the nutrition and
health sectors. The Bank correctly identified sector policy issues, and addressed the main
institutional and policy constraints in the design of the project. By including water and sanitation,
nutrition, and basic health services within one project; the design demonstrated an understanding
of the multiple determinants of health. This broad view of the health sector implied a high degree
ofcopei; -.no-vl several          + dfer.t er.;t.. a.-A -c+.o (+h.e QSCwS - later "f%1,x,me a tie
01 corpeip A LyILV%JIVLlr 111  VI.L"L %41%1~1 Vk~&~  ~&% "~ML k-* *  ~
Technical and International Cooperation Secretariat, or SETCO) as an overall coordinating
.~~~~~~~~~~ I                .. . .  . s.  --  I  - s  I  -  I T - - '--  --_ -1 --  __  _1  _.__ .'TTTCI
body responsible for momntoring and evaluanon; the PRAF ana MVL0Tl as impiementers, the FrrF1
as the agency originally charged with managing the substantial health center rehabilitation efforts;
as well as several nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), UNDP, UNICEF, and bilateral aid
agencies. While it might have been expected that such complexity would threaten the
achievement of project objectives, for the most part the institutions proved capable of
implementAtion At the time of nrenaration; the maior issues facing the health sector were: (iM
low coverage and poor quality of services; (ii) poor maintenance, and lack of equipment and
supplies; (jiii) :reficAier.t IXCLrr.a.ae.e.t of. reoreWtteMO;.x)rpdpre.sino
infection and AIDS; and (v) poor nutritional status, identified as a contributing factor in about 60
percent of infant deaths, and affecting more tnan half of the women attending health centers.
- 5 -



4. Achievement of ubjective and uutputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of obiective:
The project's overall outcome was satisfactory, as it accomplished its main objective of
preventing the deterioration of nutrition and health conditions during one of the most trying times
in thp hictnrv nf T-n4ndiirn  Thp nrniptt .vYr pilvp1 eYnprtntinnC in qnm. rnqpq huit fniled tn meet
targets in other respects. Epidemiological surveillance interventions, incorporated in project
Udesil uy uiv OUppule-iriIL41 C.rivUL, cMLLWUUMU LUto a rUeUctio ill UIVe incidLeVnc of c.rU1 riIlcUabule
diseases in the areas reached by the project.
Overall nutrition, health and basic education impact. Project outcomes show stable or
improved conditions in key nutrition, health and education indicators (Annex 1). Thus the project
did reach its the desired objective of avoiding the risk of a deterioration of social conditions in the
face of economic adjustment and massive natural disaster. The improvements noted can be traced
tn the pynnntip.d aesrPs tn and ni2litu nf hbaic haplth servirpe prnvided hu the (veprnm.pnt iinder
the project, as well as health, nutrition and family planning education efforts.
Project Ouicome inwcators           n iaseime 1992  r  rstimated
I                1   2000-2001
Nutrition:
Incidence of malnutrition, children 0-5 (%)      27               27
Stunting among children aged 6-9 (%)            40.6             36.2
Health: 
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    39               34
fav.AA A C .     _A_ '(..  1 Ln 1P.,. 1 . \      C 2              AC
%lIIIU U-J LIlLULMaLLy iaus- WF1 llvvv Llvq- UntUi;)   J          *
Low birth weight (%)                            10.4              9.7
Maternal mortaiity (per 100,000)                 182              i 08
Child mortality due to diarrheal (%)            20.6              7.9
Environmental Health
Households with potable water (%)               67.0             74.9
Households with latrines or sewage (%)          61.0             73.8
Gross enrollment in primary school (%)          94.5             97.3
Coverage. The project reached an additional 10 percent beneficiaries of PRAF food coupon
programs; 63 percent more rural communities installed water supply services; and 25 percent
more nrral households built latrines. ClearIvy therefore. the nroiect exceeded its original ohiective
in termns of increasing access to basic services.
Gender Impact. The outcomes of the project for women may be noted as highly beneficial.
- 6 -



Maternal mortalitv waq reduced by an estimated 41 pe-rcent, contraceptive prevalence among
women in child-bearing age in union raised by 15 percent, from 46.7 to 61.8 percent, and total
fvilfiLy LatL UdcLLneVU ILVIII J t,111LUdIC per womant L  t.I U4. 1LcldII. I lUV IVbrprIeeL nSigUliCa.l gaIns
for women, particularly poor women living in the rural areas.
Environment Impact. The project helped install water storage tanks and distribution systems in
poor rural communities with the participation of the communities themselves, which continue to
maintain the services. Many of the households were also assisted in the construction of latrines.
These improvements significantly raised the environmental conditions of the poorest rural villages
tnrcretedl hv the nrniect
ImUp rovedU Comunuuicaoin1s. IIIT proUJectL IhIepedU esL.Ulisih i IIULUVatULV coIllhWii.HMLIUon IInLWVIK
linking health posts in isolated rural areas with hub hospital facilities for the first time in the
history of the country. This network, was strategically important during the time of emergency
following hurricane Mitch because it proved the only means to reach many flooded and otherwise
cut-off areas of the country. The network was utilized not only by the MOH but by several
government institutions to locate victims of disaster and arrange for remedial action. The
sustainability of this valuable achievement will require further support, as noted below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The achievements and shortcomings of each of the components are described below, combined
the original and the supplemental credits. Additional information can be found in Annex 1.
A. EUpandmne"                 Cuntritn Assis'.ce ar.d Dev   a Longer=Te.. Nui;.r;on P.licy. (JS$ 39.0
million equivalent or 53 percent of total project cost, representing an increase of 20 percent over
the appraisal estimate). iCR Rating: Satisfactory. Important progress was made in each of the
areas covered by this component - nutrition policy formulation, expansion of the PRAF food
coupons, strengthening of PRAF's institutional capacity, nutrition education, and nutritional
censuses in schools - and most output targets were achieved or exceeded. These outputs justify
the satisfactory rating of the project performance with respect to this component.
The basic nutrition policy of Honduras has been maintained, namely that general food subsidies
are. notJ to bU IGirL,%,L wILUI FUblic JLUI%4, aUr. Lcaurt subsiUdie are to be lin..ted Lv use m.ost
vulnerable groups. It is important to note that general food subsidies were the norm prior to the
creation of the PRAF. Tne elimination oI general iood subsidies was part oI the economic
adjustment program for Honduras in the early 1990s and a condition for the appraisal of this
project.
During project implementation a long-term nutrition policy was formulated and a corresponding
Action Plan was completed by Anril 19R8. The main feattires of the National Nutrition Policy
reflected in the Action Plan were: (i) focusing interventions in areas of extreme poverty; (ii)
paLL.QVJ;ipaion Vof LI, QrJ.1,Lu.uL.LL 0%cIILv tvoFLUI IL) proL.II%..ot J Igood .uL.LJ;Io pFic"I'".e usLing IUrl Frod..cts;
(iii) incorporation of 14 ethnic groups in the implementation of nutrition-related actions; (iv)
addition of ecologicai concepts in defining nutrition instructions and guidelines; (v) involvement
of local governments in improving the delivery and supervision of the food coupons; (vi)
- 7 -



;n+rnitirod ;nn nf m tnntn r nifintnre. ari. (vii) itiationn nfthe dpeuplomnmpnt nftthe ingtilhitinrna!
framework to provide a "food safety net' as part of the nutrition policy. The Plan of Action was
appieiu m jour iLl-uwiipaiiutei0s oue Dea MO erIVlt 01 I 10 Yoro   WleuU Region 3).  ie uirpresents
an important step, prospects for future implementation at the national level are uncertain,
particularly on account of the shortage of professional staff and the complexities attached to a
large inter-institutional coordination effort that the policy entails.
PRAF coverage expansion targets were surpassed during the proiect. By 1998, PRAF covered
about 144,000 beneficiaries of the Bono Materno-Infantil and 170,000 beneficiaries of the Bono
Escolar - eyceeding the onrginal project tnrget of 255, 000 tnt! beneficiairies While the
anthropometric census for children who enter first grade in public school (ages 6-9) indicated no
s-UUbs'ILLi1 cIhange II UsC IIUU nLIVIIUIiI LLUs UsLWV1e 19971 adU 1996, a riUore recen't1 sludy (,IViarch
2001) based on the eighth school census for children ages 6-9 concluded that, on average,
malnutrition decreased from 40.6 to 36.2 percent between 1997 and 2001. It is reasonable to
assume that some of this improvement is attributable to the existence of the PRAF food coupons.
The yearly nutrition school census is in itself an important achievement, as not systematic measure
of stunting existed in Honduras prior to this proiect. Five census were carried out, instead of the
planned three.
Nutrition education objectives were attained, with a strong focus on training for health personnel,
cor-0ritaiLY WULorikr and IVUVulHrS in breusi-Ieedung, n-uio UUdI-uwing weaning and nutrition of
preschool children. With the intervention of a specialized NGO supported by the project, 20,000
women were trained in breast-feeding techniques, and more than 7,000 health personnel and
medical students also received breast-feeding training. The project worked with the
Breast-feeding League (Liga de Lactancia Materna) in two training centers until 1996; the MOH
then took over the responsibilities and extended activities to all maternity hospitals in the country.
Curricular changes were set in motion in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Nursing
A soiitoant  A wnv%inv;matep1, 700 ,'n,O r,min itY brePat-feedi;1ng onlinepInre iu,rp trainepd a nd, ux,,rIrke
closely with the local health centers. In addition, the project supported the development of
eduationa; materials on breast-feeding directed at motUhers who work ou'side tuhe home.
As part of this component, a comprehensive child health care program was implemented in the
Pediatrics Department of the San Felipe Hospital. In addition to monitoring growth and
development, this program included early stimulation and food and nutrition education with the
narticination of community personnel (100 community monitors), as well as house calls by
psychologists and social workers. As a teaching center, the hospital has transmitted this children's
he.IUwt- ce A.nA1 -+t-n-llx, n-A  o+Ie- C'ntrol A-wAr-c&r nniintrmnc
T ne project supported mhe institutuonai strenghnemnng of PRAP utrougn mhe provision oi consuiting
services related to intemal organization, information systems and preparation of extemally funded
projects. As a result of the project, procedural manuals were created. The project also supported
in-service training in social project administration and administrative organization abroad (Chile,
US, Costa Rica and El Salvador); approximately 30 persons also were trained in computer
science. PRAF benefited from the nurchase of vehicles. comnuter equipment; furniture and office
equipment. Finally, PRAF used project funding to conduct four financial and accounting audits of
-8 -



the institution.
Five annual nutrition census among school age children were carried out with the sunport of
teachers previously trained in data collection. Data from the nutrition census have played an
ininnrtant role in ,,,nio.+ann nchanges oveor i-n.l,a and are nanr4lt;u.nd4n. a, a careful evlattn. 0 n of the
n.qJJ.IaI~  ..'... fnn  in.'ntu± * 4 "m b".0  '.Y'.S  '.flAz., GUfItf  Ut'.  IAA.'U114r   Ul tVULVA"A  WV1.U4 .JU J1Lt
PRAF currently being undertaken by the International Food Policy Research Institute, with
unuing unuer an mter-Amrencan Development bank project.
The impact evaluation of the PRAF coupon programs needed not be financed by the project,
because IDB funding was provided to conduct the evaluation, which was successfully completed
during pro9ject implementation. The activity was therefore cancelled.
B. Strengthening the Delivery of Basic Health Services (US$ 26.2 million equivalent (including
nvnonAith.roo on epn,nridr.ryl ioloa rn,n,o4llanna\ o: 36~ per.crt of total pro,ecnt cost, ranrccort.n4n a 7
percent increase over the appraisal estimate). ICR Rating: Marginally Satisfactory. The
success of the project with respect to the activities planned for tnis component was mixed, as not
all interventions to improve the physical quality of health centers, the MOH institutional capacity,
the distribution of pharmaceuticals, and the control of the spread of AIDS were fully successful.
On balance, the results can be rated marginally satisfactory.
The project achieved its aouantitative targets for construction of health centers. but fell short on its
objectives for rehabilitation. Some 28 new facilities were built or replaced in priority rural
c--,l',n 44a a. n  Annr  -ona -n11-Aar-n-.ratA .- l;,--n44 'na c+.-aA-A A-0 n- T-T-,a,t- I
WIllALLnUi,es as pFa*%A4d usingVT we!!=docmlflh1Utt and U ; L&I O otantn% des 6igns. Ho. ,vet,', nfl
rehabilitation works, performance was less than satisfactory for the following main reasons: (a)
construction designs were not prepared and contracts were issued on tne basis oI an inventory oi
needs; (b) the selection of contractors did not follow performance criteria; and (c) supervision was
scant. As a result, the FHIS, acting as the general contractor for the works, found that much
more extensive rehabilitation and expansion was needed in the selected health centers than
originally anticipated. These additions cause the average investment per center to increase from
an estimated US$ 7-000-1 0-000 to annroximatelv US$ 30,000. The higher costs in turn led to a
56 percent reduction in the number of centers rehabilitated from 130 to 57. As a result of poor
cor..lact;lllg ~ ~ F an  ueiLolpatcs teqa;  fsm  fve rhavil;.tat.ed ;u.iras""dture also
was found to be lacking in about 10 percent of the centers. A technical audit of the works cited
three factors contributing to the quality problems: (i) poor technicai documentation; (ii) poor
supervision of works; and (iii) participation of contractors with insufficient experience and
support to complete the works successfully. Finally, a large share of the centers selected for
rehabilitation were located in semi-urban areas, rather than the priority rural areas originally
foreseen.
Under the Supplemental Credit, UNDP was given responsibility for administering procurement.
-.+.-an new-, 4faci;.tie -ere buit and 2l we:ea r-- a1-.bliatcA  an acceptableqity n-14t- q.ta-A
Compared to the execution under the original credit, implementation periods were shorter and
unit costs were lower. Tne Supplemental Credit also was more successful in iargeting
rehabilitation efforts to isolated rural areas. Nevertheless, the planned Clinicas Maternas were
not built because the GOH had difficulties obtaining property rights, despite assurances to the



contrary during apnraisal. and as a result funds had to be reallocated to basic health facilities.
T1. Z  "   -*.h,l4-noi caa it,rl,v!r as the aAAdtion nf tra;naA hlilman raon, ,ves at t+bp AMIH
the objective of building MOH institutional capacity under this component was largely achieved.
Approximately 430 persons were recruited under the project (45 pnysicians, 82 nurses, 194
nursing assistants, 44 health promoters, 9 breast-feeding instructors, 11 laboratory technicians, 16
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff and 46 others). They were assigned to carry out specific
project functions, mostly at the primary care level. In-service training was preceded by an analysis
of the problems existing in the health services, and a training strategy was developed in response
to those Droblems. The strategies used were workshops, scheduled visits with suDervision, and a
system of "induction training," lasting three to five days for new personnel entering the service.
Special co,rses .,ere developed in are mornor affecteAd by shortage of nursing assistarnts, i.ncludin.g
certain indigenous areas. Personnel in a new resource category, called "Environmental Health
Technician,"- also were trained.
The staffing increases planned and carried out led to greater availability of trained personnel in
underserved rural areas. New staff target exceed appraisal targets by 44 percent and, it is
important to note, new hires were concentrated in non-medical personnel, as originally planned.
Nevertheless, in assessing the long-term impact of the staffing increments it is important to note
that while there are serious staffing deficits in some geographic areas, the Honduras health sector
as a wvhole suffers from orverstaffilng an.d associated budget pressires: the MOH has a relat+ively
large payroll (16,000), with many staff eligible for (or actively seeking) compensation
arrangements En-ai ave placed tremendous press-ures on uihe public sector budget, and impede tie
flexibility and efficiency of the system. Thus, while the addition of 431 new staff has probably
improved the quality of and access to specific services under the project, the overall effect on the
health sector may have been less positive.
As expected. the proiect improved communications capacity of the health system. It connected
approximately 150 primary care centers to a radio communications network, and established the
bic. +oehnlmna!n ;,n4.fiaetut.in  to an!!ownn for irr,maA ain anexpar.sion nato crvtr n,a,ve. t1,a ss.wtrni is .not
uai- .v,t,,a +_UUO 1J_11  IA/ u.11- VT ^ *t  ,±+.n.,^ljJM0t*   *tF %f..4b*   1141pr -,  kA%  0) 01%/I   ;0  CIt/
yet available. The project financed an initial network capacity based on 70 fixed stations, 80
portable radios and i i repeaTer sites. Tnis covers 10 percent oa health establishmnents in ihe
country. The targeting was good, as 95 percent of the stations provide coverage to health
establishments where there is no other system of communication. Activities related to
strengthening communication networks under the Supplemental Credit did not fare as well,
possibly due to an over ambitious expansion plan, but also to technical difficulties and lack of
ownershin on the nart of the MOH. These factors mav compromise the long-term sustainabilitv
of a very valuable communications network if not additional support is provided.
With respect to improvements in the highly deficient domestic pharmaceutical procurement
system, results were aiso mixed. Although technical and administrative personnel were hired,
computer equipment and transport were financed, and technical assistance was provided for the
design of pharmaceutical procurement and distribution procedures, there is little evidence of
improvement in the efficiency of pharmaceutical procurement. This remains a goal of the MOH
and a challenge for the incoming administration.
-10-



The study of cost recovery of health services was not carried. The main reason for failure in this
case was that the reauest for proposals from consulting firms resulted in very poor proposals,
none of them worth funding. As other competitive uses for resources were pressing, a decision
wn m,iade jointluy by theBark and thelGoverunmPnetto canrel thelstudy. A second study, intended
to examine the private sector domestic supply of generic drugs was also cancelled. In this case,
UI [C1U11 lOr MICUilIUU1 WUb Ult; UPPUSILIUII iLiCL Irum UUmCSlu. urug IuurariWbS, will rFzlubsu
to provide access to the necessary information.
B2. Epidemiological Surveillance. Disease Prevention and ControL ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
The main objective of improving the instruments available to prevent communicable disease was
achieved. Overall, the percentage of child (0-5) mortality due to diarrheal disease declined by 62
percent, from 20.6 percent in 1992 to 7.9 percent in 2000. In addition, a mass program for the
preup.n.t:in of narasit:c diseases wsn A l hi the dp Ant %...Pt nf OCarl.hkn .Ynnbatt-ivg a ,h,;gh,
incidence of epileptic disorders caused by neurocisticercosis. The parasite elimination plan
inICluded ain eduction coUmpnUlieni, anu int aduIli1isiiLtion o1 medicUaion i nel1 sCnooi-age
population of selected areas. This contributed to the reduction in Teniasis cisticercosis incidence
from 3.5 to 1.5 percent in the population under 15 between 1999 and 2000.
C. Improving Environmental Health (US$ 7.0 million equivalent or 9.5 percent of total original
program cost, representing 3 percent less than the appraisal estimate). ICR Rating: Highly
Satisfactory. The project succeeded in meeting its goals for improved water supply and
oonitot.inn exceedir.g approisa! 'argets by 12~ percer.t fl*1n oone cae fn,oatnr and1 in, 21 percent ;r, then
case of sanitation. In 82 communities, the project supported the creation of gravity-operated
water systems and more tian 350 wells operated with manual pumps; it aiso supported
construction of latrines. Automatic drip-chlorinators were installed on every water storage tank.
Major achievements were obtained in terms of: (i) good quality of the works; (ii) community
participation; (iii) development of a decentralized community-based network to support the
constructed services, including the provision of seed capital to ensure availability of chlorine salts
through municinal sunply shops; and (iv) trained community leaders and members. mayors and
health personnel in water and sanitation management and legislation in four of the country's
AA-.ro, n.  A -.tnar hi,orA t( T-f. n,aoo otoah estbl A ished   nort-h cor tyuyiih, anA iso noA,flr
responsible and accountable for the maintenance of the system. In addition, a user fee system was
implemented ror eacn water system buiti and is monitored by tie comrmunity. it is interesung to
note that the community-based strategy of the MOH for this component, was widely recognized
as successful and has since been adopted by the FHIS. The water and sanitation facilities
damaged by Hurricane Mitch were repaired, and services were extended to disadvantaged
communities when possible. These investments contributed significantly to curtail the incidence
of diarrheal diseases.
Several on".c.iaties Tvern cor.vwItdA to, i.vn"rnwa maAAh'olI ruot wtiei nanrgi.nt. A pilo*t "la". wuo
conducted in four areas of Health Region 4, one area of Health Region 7, and two areas of Health
Region 3 (a zone with high AIDS incidence). Tnirty specialists conducted i0 worKshops to train
300 people. The study of hospital solid waste disposal made it possible to prepare a training
manual for several categories of personnel. This action was complemented by the distribution of a
A A



two-year supply of plastic bags, metal receptacles, bio-safety items and uniforms, which gave the
region time to make a budget provision for the purchase of inpiits.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation, and Auditing (US$ 1.3 million equivalent or 1.8 percent of total
Fs J Jct cost, znd 1 ..ol  less1L  UiGaU tUh apprawai vastiTaLL.e. IR. Rat.llig. Sat13&aIGLV.;I . ALLe
project activities were carried out by the respective executing agencies, but overall supervision
and coordination was provided by SETCO, a ministerial- level in charge of monitoring the
implementation of projects financed by external credits and grants. A special unit was created at
SETCO for monitoring the project. SETCO's responsibilities included: (i) applying monitoring
and evaluation indicators of project implementation; (ii) coordinating inter-institutional activities
and linking theses with financial institutions, NGOs and donors; (iii) providing statistical reports
and perinodic monitoring and follow-up information; (iv) carrving out annual operating reviews
and plans; and (v) providing financial reports on project management in accordance with the
corAIUmiLr.et- u Ar.Alaken ir. the C;edit kEIIi^ . I U.liiarIU.c irL an UL*ese actLiviLIe is LaLdU
satisfactory. This institutional arrangement strengthened project implementation by providing
additional technical personnel and resources to ensure coordination. In addition, SETCO was
responsible for carrying out the school nutrition census, and 10 studies, including three studies
that were not originally planned.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
iCR Rating: Modest. Project activities ied to: (i) the strengthening of PRAF information,
administrative and accounting systems; (ii) better trained health service personnel; (iii) installation
of a radio communication network connecting service centers in remote areas with hospital
facilities; (iv) a new model for breast-feeding training and dissemination; (v) the participation of
beneficiaries in the process of building water supply and sanitation facilities; (vi) a bottom-up
methodology for develonment of rural water sunplv and sewerage; (vii) improved enidemiological
surveillance and disease prevention; and the development of a geo-referential map for targeting
ar.d rn-ni4-nr.,¶r -c;.ia se. *ices in fT(-CO  .o. pro, als cnr.nnlri,, ito,1 tn  hea lti, serntn
%A ... *hktLAALAttU3S -5 f(l0~ OV -vd..'  "A IJLJ A  dt.  A £I% yF-JJ~ .% I.  OtJ  AVSCAL*UYL   "AV14   flvo,t.  037 qtVill
decentralization process by establishing a new local planning model for health services that
included an integrated annuai health plan (rather than the traditionai verticai programs) and
budget; and strengthening the evaluation with community participation. At the MOH central
level, a new management information system was put in place for annual planning, budget
formulation and monitoring.
These are all important institutional develonment aspects of the proiect- Despite these
achievements, there is little evidence that the project interventions significantly changed the
-A  -1-4-   -- -  -   -*+1k.- +l- A .-A+ 12-
- i2 -



5. Major Factors Affecting implementation and Outcome
5.1 PFancnr outsidde the con.trol of-no.rn.me", O! imnlement?i- ageny:
The primarv external factnr was Hirricane Mitch in 19Q8R which severely disnrpted the health
sector, damaging infrastructure and increasing the threat of communicable disease.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
By and large, the project was implemented as planned and benefited from strong support and
o.wnevnhrch;p on the part of the governmetnt However, in, the casef i-crtain a 'c"iHoo a uernmnt
could have given more attention leading to better results. This is particularly the case of
e --1-'  __       _ -  _        --   -----  I  2   A Tr%nt   IfL.. …_ -_'
esiaulishinig ai effei-uve stU11Lg-y LU torVrIIL UIC the -1U s l tUof a. i 1ie wure ieq-uuen caiiuges in
personnel leading the AIDS efforts; baseline indicators to permit measurement of results of AIDS
prevention campaigns were not developed; and there were delays in the provision of counterpart
funds for the AIDS activities and lack of procedures to manage funds assigned to NGOs. These
shortcoming indicate that from inception, project design underestimated the complexity of
launching an effective AIDS control program.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Although the project implementation agencies were not familiar with Bank procedures and that
caused delays in the initial phase of project implementation, this problem was effectively resolved
and the nerformance of the executinz agencies was generallv effective. Manayement staff at both
MOH and PRAF, although changed with the change in national Administration, proved effective;
A kLey, teeMf-a      - ti-ffw  n.01..t0-na thin. l,,t fhlaect _nk.nr.,ntio4n A __na..al; problr.
ariLt BUOY)  14UNNHUCC  01,011 VVUO lnafI..n%vt  L'Jt~JJ`   FLJfl vJ.tl  fl 5wx%'*t" ,z".  p.t,ta...
however, was the difficulty encountered by all executing agencies in ensuring the reliability of
project monitoring indicators. Progress was made in this direction, but deficiencies stil remain. A
clear deficiency on the part of the MOH and FHIS was to ensure adequate supervision of*
infrastructure works. Finally, under less pressure from external factors and increased access to
qualified staff, the project executing agencies would have been able to document better the very
useful innovations in institutional strengthening, quality improvements, nutrition and health
management nractices-
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total proiect cost was US$73.5 million, or 12 percent above the appraisal estimate. The
increase is due to increased coverage and was financed by additional funds from the Government
and frnm nther dinnnr.. Tt i9 f-nmmPnd2h1e that T-Inndirnq wns able tn mnhili7e RI nercent mnre
financing from the donor community than originally planned. A small discrepancy in the planned
arIU acwLua: ±Jt credUIL LIrIV I,LIU11 VJ. D .st.J ULS$34.5 II LU LJO.D rJ.0 IILIIUII) Is UL LU Uod.erVIencs :U
the exchange rate of SDR into USD. IDA financing accounted for about 49 percent of total
project cost, Government financing for an estimated 22 percent and parallel financing from other
donors and project beneficiaries for 29 percent. (Annex 2). Both the original and the
supplemental IDA Credits were fully disbursed; the last disbursement having been made on June
21, 2001.
- i3-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely. The sustainability of the project benefits is enhanced by the fact that the
GOHl policies in uLe areasb Ul hel-thU, IIn-uLuitio adIl Unvrnnirertal alihealti-, lhave been-- s-ust,a-in,ed ard--U
are receiving continued support. The key technical agencies involved in the project - the MOH
and P-RAF - have expressed commitment to continue many of the project activities, consistent
with Government strategy, although difficulties remain to be surmounted particularly in the area
of trained personnel.
From a financial perspective, the picture is generally good. Currently, all of the human resources
initiuil i     Banko findse o ave ben asheorhA hu nntionnal findc Trningno and s1pertAQnn
activities are incorporated in the regular activities of the MOH.. Procurement of medicines and
---   ~1__ Xt     . N ITT  L_.J3 -   T_.0- TT--]---  t._. I U   31.-
VaccirU, 1i iLnIcporaedLU WI'LIIl uLH iVMJOH uUdgtL. II Iact, Huoiudura has lbUcome a muui lUfr
self-sufficiency in vaccine purchases.
For nutrition activities, expansion of the PRAF coupons now is financed by an increase in the
Value Added Tax from 7 to 12 percent. Annual anthropometric censuses are likely to be
maintained with support from the Ministry of Education and other donors. Renewed effort to
curtail the spread of AIDS are being carried out with funds and technical assistance provided by
externnal dininnrs i11r1cudin. PAT-A aindi TR aswel a ' eiCpl .rm..an, Spnnidh, I U  a  ndthfFr hilatp-ral
donors. This effort may very well compensate for the less than satisfactory performance of this
aspect of the project implemi,erntation.
In components where there has been a high level of community participation, the structures
continue to work and are supported by central and regional structures. For the water and
sanitation improvements, a comprehensive training program was conducted and a complete set of
technical and administrative tools are in place, permitting community councils to maintain and
repair their water supply and sanitation systems. Additionally, this component developed a pilot
expernence in medtical unstp Aineal, xvhich. u,11 bei. e.yxpndued to the inatinn2l l-vel urith finsain.4,
from the European Community.
Although the largest investments under the project are likely to be sustained, there are
sustainability might be at risk. That is particularly the case of infrastructure maintenance, the
expansion and maintenance of the radio communication network, and vector control program.
Although the project contributed significantly to preparing manuals and providing tools for
infrastructure and eauipment maintenance. trainine and develoDment for a sustainabilitv stratepv.
funds are lacking in the MOH to effectively carry out these activities. An aggressive policy on the
n-s of*6 1.e MOH is, required t- - tA.at "art onA mnmanan"e ro inclhidae i. the6 onn,l
budget allocations. In addition, the sustainability of the improvements in the communication
network, whnichn piayed such an important role during project impiementation, is iikely to required
additional financial and technical support on the part of the Government. The MOH currently
does not have a strategy to update and maintain the system, implying that the network might
deteriorate quickly if remedial action is not taken. Vector control programs, although
- 14 -



strengthened under the Supplemental Credit to respond to the emergency situation, continue to
suffer from the Ministry's institutional weaknesses which characterized the program for several
denc2d.z Thee wPeanePsPe reducir th ahility of helth prormontprs at the rpinnnal levie! and
health officials at the central level to respond in a timely manner to outbreaks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the activities supported by the project have been incorporated into the regular program of
the MOH an.d of PR.^A. Water and sanitation improvements are the responsibility of
communities, which have been adequately prepared to accept them, and FHIS has adopted
comm-unity participation as uhe preferred modei for rurai water supply investments. Tnus,
transition arrangements are in place and bode well for the sustainability of the project benefits.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendinz:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. While the economic and technical analyses were not as rigorous as
c-iirrent stnndardsc Uwoild rpnieire, nverail Rank nprfnrm2n.cP in nrn;po t nrenpration was
satisfactory and marked by the introduction of important innovative approaches. IDA correctly
1UU1llt1llXU bULAUI IlILUILILb dILU Ur.VVIUPUU l IJlUJU%;L Ult IIUU bIgI1111t.;dIl UuvxrfU11r.1L uWIIUlbilll.
.7  1  .
/.2 u4pe,visorL.:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank supervision effort consisted of a total of 18 full and partial
missions. A midterm implementation review was successfully carried out. For tne most part,
supervision missions were well prepared and resulted in timely delivery of progress reports,
although they tended to be more oriented toward discussions with the PIUJ than field supervision.
During most of the implementation period, the environmental health component benefited from
the presence in Honduras of IDA's regional specialist in rural water supply; the specialist made
remilar field visits to commiinitie- involved in this enmponent.
Supervision m1U Lissions wcrc insuLun..11aL in LUi%.1L1J,111r, feasiUb1 OViU.Ii  r fuo sih mairiL
implementation problems, such as: (i) unsatisfactory counterpart funding; (ii) delays in the
implementation (procurement, personnel, operational agreements); (iii) implementation issues
related to NGOs and FHIS; (iv) uneven implementation of the training activities; and (v) the need
to reformulate the implementation strategy of the infrastructure component. Each supervision
mission ended with a well documented aide-memoire, which typically included a matrix indicating
the main implementation issues identified, the solutions agreed, the unit/person responsible for its
implementation and the target date. These docmments served to guide actions on the part of both
the Borrower and IDA, and to monitor progress.
A positive aspect of supervision performance was the rapid and appropriate response to emerging
priorities. Notably, the Supplemental Credit was processed very quickly between October and
December 1998, and proved to be well designed.
The turnover of task managers - five, over the course of nine years - was within the typical range
for IDA operations, but has been identified by the Borrower as a cause of some difficulties for
- 15-



implementation. Task manager changes implied the need to establish new working relationships,
and sometimes led to periods when the IDA was not sufficiently responsive to project
rnnnncre Ent
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Ratina: Satisfactory. The Borrower was fully engaged in the preparation process, on both
policy and technical levels and made valuable contributions to the design of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The project's achievements are largely due to the willingness of the
Government to institute an aggressive nutrition and health policy aimed at improving child and
maternal health and nutrition, and controlling epidemic outbreaks. Throughout the
n,plpn,onfnl4nn of the prmoe-ect  fhe Go..nn..an* r.Ad th.e esser..l;a! nnnAr..l.-;bonn of nnrnnv,,,cn* to
UAUJAf41%1L0*~J1  A  -4%  j.JVVJ.V,a, -~ J. WV VzAMA1A-.. IAW.%A  IW  00114  ~l1fUtt~fW .' VW.flhAl,J'.,AAL . VA.
project aims and methods, consistency in strategy, compliance with covenants, rapid signing of
the Supplemental Credit and provision of counterpart resources, the latter way in excess to tne
amount originally estimated.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. MOH, PRAF and SETCO, all performed well during project
implementation. These agencies were able to make necessary adjustments as the project
developed, showing a flexibility that proved to be critical in allowing for added technical support
in areas of environmental health. infrastructure, and the maternal and child food coupons. Most
notably, these additional activities were performed without any significant changes in the number
of personn.el or admQinitrntiup costs T*n, fart, atirnin;ctration costs are estimrated at less than 7
percent of total project cost. The stability of many of the senior technical staff and minimal
political interfeHrence With the relevant appoiltment s are also note-woruiy.
The designation of SETCO as the external agent responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of
the project contributed to the successful implementation of the project. During the first phase,
SETCO acted as a liaison between the implementation units, freeing the MOH and PRAF from
coordination responsibilities; in the supplementary phase it was a valuable factor in achievinz
post-hurricane project objectives. It is also worth noting that UNDP played an important role in
.,,prn,-iit, 'he r.ar.ager..e.nt 01a nd ,pler.er.*ation o,f t.hi ,iw,n,.t, as wxe!! as p,it..h-;t..t.n to, tow,er
the cost and time involved in the procurement of works, goods and services.
During the implementation of the project, external financial audits were conducted and
ascertained the appropriate use and application of credit resources, as well as satisfactory
implementation of the recommendations of each audit . The GOH is in compliance with IDA
requirements as to timeliness and associated observations.
An external audit of the procurement processes carried out during project implementation showed
- 16 -



satisfactory results. During the June 2001 mission, the IDA specialist conducted a random sample
review of approximately 30 percent of the water and sanitation infrastructure contracts, nearly all
of the eauipment and goods contracts. and all of the services contacts- This review was
complemented by field visits, and yielded satisfactory results.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rnting: Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the experience of this project are the following:
Demand-side interventions are an important tool to provide effective social protection. The
PRAF food coupons program was the first in Latin America to address the problem of how to
project the most vullnerable groups of the populatnion frntm. pe,+pntia11,y r.efath,e mpa  of
economic structural adjustment, and more generally from the most long-ranging effects of acute
poverty. Tlhe mvrodel estblished by PrnFt and perfected utereafter by many other countries,
including Mexico and Brazil, shows that providing financial incentives to poor families for
keeping their children in school and taking them periodically for health checks, has a significant
impact in improving the nutrition, health and education conditions of the family. The project
experience also shows that demand-side interventions need to be accompanied by strengthening of
the supply side in public social services, to ensure that quality is maintained and improved under
the fast and significant increase in coverage that is generated by the demand incentives.
Well-structured community participation can contribute to sustainability. The long-term
sust-ainability of investimntLs in water and sanitatlion is fostered by the structures tat are now in
place at the community level. The community water councils have the right level of authority, as
well as the full range of administrative, tools necessary to fulfill their role in maintaining the water
systems. Four of the key elements of success in water and sanitation under this project were:
training and community participation; community involvement in the provision of spare parts and
supDlies (including chlorine): use of apDropriate technologv (e.g.. pour-flush latrines): and
nomination of promoters to maintain the momentum in the councils, as well as to ensure that the
cor.. ty isi.nf^orr. about11 health1 m"affairer anr.d r.e%.;.vafd to oeateard  Auar.w; t2exios.er
For future sustainability, it will be important to ensure that the water councils receive appropriate
guidance from the promoters.
A coordinating body facilitated the implementation of a complex set of activities. The
involvement of a high-level authority (SETCO) with liaison, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation functions was a key factor in ensuring that implementation occurred in a timely and
synchronized fashion. SETCO's involvement signaled that health and nutrition issues were
viewed by the Government as being of concern outside (as well as within) the health sector. The
abiit o~,f nSPrTCrn to effectively nnnwaCote Anl n+on deperAd  to -so..e exe+nt+ lo- on t1he
good organization of the PIU.
Greater continuity in the Bank's task management would contribute to better
implementation. In the view of the Borrower, frequent turnover of task managers hampered
- 17-



smooth imnlementatinn dielaving^ decision makin annd fAninw-li of areedl actinn. The henefit-
of maintaining an on-going relationship between key players on the side of both the Borrower and
The links between nutrition and education should be reinforced. Tnere are three important
aspects to the links between nutrition and education. First, successful nutrition programs depend
on nutrition education focused on breast-feeding, rather than solely weaning practices. Second,
the positive impact of nutrition assistance (i.e., the food coupons) depends on sound and on-going
nutrition education for mothers. Third, the education sector can be an important partner in
addrevzinr malnutritionn both throu gh the cnndlct nf the anthrnnnmetriG ceniises, and hv
exposing children to messages about good nutrition.
More strategic attention to infrastructure activities could improve outcomes. Arrangements
for future operations should focus on: (i) the implications of changes in health policy for
infrastructure planning, specifically related to identification of the communities to be served,
whether staff and other inputs will be made available, and how maintenance will be financed and
provided; (ii) selection of a procurement method that is more attractive to experienced
contractors, and more competitive than direct contracting; (iii) establishing packages of works
organnied by region, rather than individlanl contracts through local muiniipalities that may not
have the capacity for quality control; (iv) preparation and use of terms of reference for
UiL4bUU%.,LUL, 0u rVI1 LU en1UrV adqLJU4LVa fLeLU VisiLt andU technUUical sUppoIL, (V) appliLaiUUII VI
an extensive and consistent plan for building maintenance; and (vi) accuracy in estimating costs at
appraisal for worics that can be defined a priori. Regardless of whether impiementation is
managed by a private agency or a public one, as was the case in the original project, high
standards for supervision and technical support should be enforced.
Delays can be reduced with better communication. During the implementation of this
npernt1Anf IDA's Tonan nPfnArtmP..nt r-nmmilinientptJ dir etlv with the Mi,nistn, nf Finnnni- (the
Borrower) regarding the disbursement requests and replenishment of the Special Account. As a
res-u.i oI i0ite1l-la GOH colUlul-urucation lapss adiU buea-uclaic Uelays, Ulu flu UILVII LUU nIUt 'UI,w
whether project resources were available. Implementation could have been made smoother if IDA
had sent communications directly to the implementing agency, as well as the Ministry of Finance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Rnrr.wp r./i,nnlpmentingy agncr',v:
Verbal communications received from MOH, SETCO and PRAF indicated their agreement with the
fi ndings presnfte in this report. The F.MI.S expressed its disagaeement with the assessmpnt nf the
performance of the infrastructure component and a summary of FHIS comments is presented in Section 10.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Tlne project had no formal cofinanciers, aithough parallel financing was provided by several donors.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Additional Comments from the Borrower: The FHIS responded extensively to the critique of
its performance presented in this report. The Spanish text of this response is available in the
proiect file, and a summary of it is presented below.
FHTQ pr.t*s out th.at th.e tj.n,iq-a1 aiiAit of th.e ;nfrastiiv.-  p; iiaseA tfi,varAc the
negative aspects of FHIS's performance and omits important elements that explain the less than
santsfactory ouicome of this project activity.
Omissions include: (a) 28 new health centers were built on schedule, in the locations that were
planned and in accordance with the preliminary designs provided; (b) the health centers
rehabilitation target of 131 was reduced to 57 due to the higher cost of rehabilitation and
expansion carried out in most centers; in other words the real needs for rehabilitation/expansion
were poorly identified during project preparation; while the average cost of rehabilitation was
st.ateA at. appraisa! at MT 7,000 AAn Dnaral"t, actual vaUbtat.iI on i,vrkrs ascenaAA tro abmot T Mt
.30,000 on average; these higher costs are commensurate to the work performed as ascertained by
the application of FHiS cost analysis methnodology.
Quality of construction problems: Approximately 10 percent of the works are reported to be of
deficient quality due to poor selection of builders, deficient supervision and inadequate detailed
construction designs. As a response, FHIS notes that the construction agreement entered into
with the MOH called for the utilization of local materials and labor; this covenant affected the
quality of the works. The construction agreement also specified that the MOH would carry out
coAu  to ; 14.T.II.flJAA  O iA s V *oMJA* ft  uAd  1ka  at.JnC4tf  not i   FTTT4 Zof an.yT AAJ  =  di.-vAsc re eso  bt uen
building design and execution. For that, the MOH had 10 percent of total construction budget,
while FHIS had i percent. MOH did not comply with the supervision clause, as it carried out less
than half the supervision visits planned. During the project implementation period, mayors were
in charge of appointing builders, thus FHIS had not discretionary power to choose the best
builder. Most importantly, architectural plans for rehabilitation of health centers were not
provided to FHIS, but only general evaluation of needs, which proved fully unsatisfactory for
construction nurnoses.
tUCIoncluslons.  (a) T. c..'.e..a  -d  -  A ;.A. the   ovia  +1kA kahiUalUYXA. flJ or u   in
higher-budget construction and are not applicable to small works carried out by FHIS; moreover,
the technical audit omitted important aspects of tne actual implementation procress and thnese
omissions distorted the audit opinions; (b) The lack of construction plans and adequate
supervision of rehabilitation works explain to a great extent the construction quality problems
encountered.
Report Preparation: This report was prepared by Luis Pisani, who conducted the ICR mission,
and Ruth Levine. Comments were received from: Donma Dowset--Coiroio, Charles Griffin,
Helena Ribe, Suzana Campos Augusto, Anna Sant'Anna, Maria-Luisa Escobar, David Warren and
Ricard Lacort.



Annex I Key Performance indieators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcomellmpact Indicator                 |   Baseline 1992   |   ActualiLatest
I___  EsUmate
Malnutrition, Children under 5 (%)                27.0       1       27.0
Stunting, Children 6-9 years (%)                  40.6               36.2
infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)     39                  34
0-5 Children Mortality (per 1,000 births)         53.0               45.0
Low Birth Weight (%j                              10.4                9.7
Matemal Mortality Rate (per 100,000)              182                 108
Child 0-5 Mortality due to Diarrheai (%[          20.6                7.9
Births Attended by Health Services (% of live     40.5               47.0
Households with Potable Water                     67.0               74.9
Iuse i-uolds wl:h LatUrnes or SeIwrage I  /Oj      1.0               7 13.0
Contraceptive Prevalence (% 15-49 years women     46.7               61.8
in union)
Total Fertility Rate (children per woman)         5.0                 4.1
Grnos initiaI Fnrnimlnt P ate in Prim.aru choo!  r  5                 7 97.j
ReDetition Rate                                   11.4                8.9
- 20 -



Outnut ndleator          T     Unit     I   SAR Tamnt     I Atuilltrran 1
It Estimate
(Includin,
Original and
Supplemental
Nutrition Policy Implementation         Date           12/31/96           a/
PRAF BMI Beneficiaries                Number           317,500          357,455
PRAF BMJF Beneficiaries               Number           382,400          410,328
Training of Nutrition Staff            Number           10,504          11,746
School Nutrition Census             Number Years          3                5
Health Centers Rehabilitated          Number             137              80
Health Centers Build/Equipped         Number             32               42
Radio Communication system            Stations           40        1      70
Vehicles for Supervision b/            Number             22        |     38
I I raining ot Healtn Personnei         C;ourses           51        1    7,111i
Training of Mothers and Health Staff in  Persons          0 °            16,896
Breast-feeding                    I              I                                 I
Supervision of Health Centers           Visits          2,800            3,200
IN4eW rUll-LillT rerlurionn  flIIUU  I  rViuizi  Iuu                     81 
AIDS Action Plan & Implementation  _     _% _            100               o 100
IjJpluvwu WatLer Qupp,y            %'UIIIIIIUItILIe 14 I1                 38 1[ 
Water Supply Community Boards           oards    i       145              374      i
ILatrines Build                    i     uboards         1, 000     i    13,763
I Impact Evaluation of PRAF Coupons      Date           12/10/95       Cancelled c/
ICot Re-over ,- _       A l+, ,,4,,       Date           11/t It IOn,fiI!d d!
Public Health Operation Stud      |     Date     |     11/15/95     |     6/30/98
|rnmetntd Study 
1 Tnneieir% of WIV byi FlriaLf-feinn I M+            1210/95 a ,       D110
Priwata Qrtnr qiinn1v nf ennrir lninq I  nuDt.   I     8/31P/3      I GlniAd rI
Notes:
a! A national nutrition policy and action plan was development, but implementation was not fully
completed.
b/ Besides vehicles, the project financed the procurement of 75 motorcycles for supervision of health
c/ PRAF evaluation was carried out successfully with IDB financing, as no additional financing was
needed, lu. al.fUI-v.Y was car,celled.
d/ This study began to be carried out, but difficulties selecting appropriate consultants precluded the
carrying out of ithe study; te activity was cancel-ed due to thiis.
e/ Opposition from domestic drug laboratories made the environment of this study very unsatisfactory;
the activity was cancelled due to this.
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ miihon equivalent)
;; , i.4i --.; - ! ''-''asl   Prcentage,of
J>        .                    . . i  ; -,:;  .  "''n: -stin,ate -*-,,, EsziMate  praisai.
Project:dosBy;Cp nen                   USmillion.                . U;, m        ,.
Nutrition Assistance                                 32.50           39.00            120
Health Services \a                                   24.60           26.20           107
Envirormental Health                                  7.20            7.00            97
M&E/Auditine \b                                       1.50            1.30            87
Total Baseline Cost                                  65.80           73.50
Total Project Costs         1   65.80           73.50
Total Financing Required         |    65.80           73.50   |
Note: All costs include contingencies. Appraisal estimates include the original and the supplemental IDA
credits.
a/ Health Services includes Epidemiological Survaillance and Disease Prevention and Control
b/ Lncludes UNDP service fees.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I,<,,,-,  , ,;x. ; t, ; | ;t; 5.",  Procuiremnent Me~thod  :, :j-;-    T-;>;;-. 
Exp hditure Categor          B--                                              Total Cost ' I
,, ,,H, , , , - . . ,,- .,.,, . .-. . .. ,* uner,                           q   ' 
1. Works                                    3.00         9.50          l.00         13.50
0      1    (3.00)       (6.10)    j   (0.00)       (9.10)
2. Goods                 I    4.00     1            1     6.60    |             |   10.60
f    (4.00)          0          (6.60)    1     0      1   (10.60)
13. Services             I                                7 6n    I     A CM    I    R i
1   --   1  0   1  0   1  (7 600   1   (0.00)       (7.60)
14. Food Coupons        I1            I~     0           (76.0)   1I40              30.00   1
I A  e--.I                       II                              L .U
0             0      .    (6.00)       (0.00)   j   (6.00)
5. operating Costs       j _            _                 2.10         1.50         3.60
[                1     ~   ~~~~          ~~~~~0  o   (2.10)      0          (2.10)
Total                      4.00          3.00         31.80         27.00        65.80
!_________________________ !  (4.00)  _    (3.00)       (28.40)       (0.00)   !   (35.40)_
- 22 -



".u, K  "Procurement' Mdthod. *F'
Fliinanrilf- rcato; .-  -  '                                             i. C'   ;':Co:
?CT     . :.  ,7'   4          :    ~     ;NC   ' , .  ~:Other?     K      '    ____. -. r  4
11. Works                                 l       0.8        9.00     l     20 I12.00
2. Good  0  1 (0.80)       (         1     0           (9.30)
2. Goods                l    2L.70U         U.2U           8.uu          v 0. iu      I i.00
(2.70)    j    (0.20)   I    (7.70)    1     0           (10.60)
3. Services                                                   8.00          0.50          8.50
0              0           (7.80)           0          (7.80)
4. Food Coupons            |              |_|'_6.10 |_30.90 I                            37.00 (
5. Operating Costs                        I     A             5.00                        5.00
0                    ()       An0 0\                      AM
Total                         2.70           1.00         36.10          33.70         73.0
l_______________________ l     (2.70)     l   (i.Oj)    J   (32.10))j      (O.OO)   J   (35.)
!Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-  .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'1rrcn6l;eofaa Appraisali
Component       L   - ,Appraisal Estim,ae.         Actfual/Lateit Estimate;-.  |          ' *
, j ;'   1_                   Go.       :OF I'.                    'IDA  | (O V   '    GCOF%'>-DA;:;;GOL'i CoF.
Nutrition Assistance  |  6.00   |  11.70     14.80      6.10      12.50  | 20.40  1 101.7 1106.8 [137.8 1
Health Services)      I 23.10   1             1.50     22.40      3.80   1        I 97.0           0.0
Environmental Health  .  6.20                1.00      6.00                 1.00    96.8          100.0
M&E/Auditing              1.00               0.50       1.30                        130.0          0.0
Total                 | 35.40   J  11.70  [ 18.70   [  35.80   |  16.30  | 21.40  j 101.1 1139.3 [114.4 |
NUote At 4pp11-aid, ULe UoIIUIUUoUnI 11ijul oUU1L uudoUn   Was LiLU1i4LMU Uioly for L'OU poUJrcL Lost, IUL by
component. Appraisal and actual figures for other donors include contributions from project beneficiaries. The
variance in IDA financing between appraisai estimate and the actual figure is due differences in the excnange rate of
SDR to USD.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not conducted either at appraisal or upon project completion. The main benefits
expected from the project were: (a) prevent a deterioration in the nutrition status of the population most at
risk caused by the economic adjustment program; (b) reduce maternal, infant and child mortality rates; (c)
increase primary education enrollment and improve the capacity of children to learn through better
nutrition; (d) improve environmental conditions through increased water supply and basic sanitation, and
the safe handling of medical waste; and (d) curtail the snread of AIDS. All these benefits have occurred
except for the expected curtailing of the spread of AIDS, as explained in Section. 4 of this ICR. Thus, it is
reasonable to exnect that the prmiect hnrachievedanposit.ive.ost-benefitratio. Even m.ore than originally
expected, considering that the actual benefits accrued in spite of the major calamity caused by hurricane
,Misti2
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:._________________________________
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty     |    Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year'   Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparaffon
9/91                        6   OP,H.MH,T
11/91                       8   OP,H,P,T,SS,P,WS
12/91                       3   PH
1-2/92                      4   TM, H, WS, T
12/7/98                     6   TM, P. P
Appraisal/Negotiatlon
4/92                        3   H,WS,T
6/92                        6   PH, I, T, H, MH, AS
Supervision
3./22t934                   2   H; PH.                             S            S
6/93                        1   H                                  S            S
7/93                        1   PH                                 S            S
10/93                       2   PH,!                               S            S
')~'l JOA                    2  T PU                                             4
4/94                        5   H, PH, WS, I                      HS            HS
9/94                                           I OPQ                            ''T Q H
6-7/94                      5   PH, I, T, H, MHI                  HS            HS
3-4/95                      3   TMPIVHL , WS                       S            S-
6/95                        1   P                                  S            S
2-3/96                      2   H. K,M                            HS            HS
7/96                        1   PH,                                S            S
9/96                        2   WS,1M                              S             S
11/97                       4   E,PH,AS,MH                         S            S
4/98                         6  E, OP, SS, PH, WS, AS              S             S
6/98                         1  WS                                 S             S
7/98                        4   HS, AC, WS, ACS, OS                S             S
9/95                        6   PH, I, T,H, MHl                    HS           HS
03/99                        1  PH
08/99                       3   TM, E, P                           S             S
11/99 a/                    I   TM
4/00 a/                      3   PH,TM,P
6/00                        5   PH,WS,SS                           S      |      S
6/01                        2   PH P                               S      I     S
ICR                         I               I                           I             I            I
xIno 1i                    A    UV= AC n 11V( AC' ('C!
g {170 ~~~Ul                     |                         s- r s- r -o                  -      1 
12/98 b/                    S    OP, SS, PH, I, WS                 S            S
I        ~~iOiOi                      11I 0 P                               S             S      I
Table (a) Notes:
at Partial supervision missions following hurricane Mitch through did not rate project perfornance but worked in
prep4l IU, UIC AuplIu-LeIn cei.dUL a sslU a ar, JIUJV4 UAirpiIutL   III nky aLea.
- 25 -



b/ The ICR started to be prepared before hurricane Mitch, the approval ot the supplemental credit, and the
extPtennn of the
closing date. Work on the ICR was re-started in 2001.
Rating: I/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems
Skills/Specialist: A = Auditor; AS = AIDS; C = Radio Communication; D = Disbursement; E = Economist; H =
Human Resources; I = Infrastructure; MH = Maternal Health; OP = Operation; PH = Public Health; P =
Procurement; SS = Social Sector; T = Training; TM = Task Manager; WS = Water Supply; D = Disbursement
Type of Problems: A = Accounting; CF = CF = Counterpart funds; L = Legal; M = Management; P = Political;
PR = Procurement; T = Technical
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
l ________________________ _ l     No. Staff weeks    i         US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation  |              a/                    118,880
| Appraisal/Negotiation                                             90,228
Supervision                                                      470,314
ICR                                                               43,000
Total                                                            722,422
a/ The budget system does not track staff weeks and distinguishes only two phases of the project cycle:
lending (combining identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations) and supervision
(combining supervision and ICR).
b/ Detailed project cycle figures are estimated. Total lending and supervision reflects actual data.
However, because the preparation, negotiation and approval of the supplemental credit took
place during the period classified in the system as "supervision" the above estimates do not
reflect expenditures by project cycle correctly.
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
1N Macro policies                   0 H O SU O AUf   N W NA
OSector Policies                    O H OSU*M ON O NA
es Physical                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                         O H OSUOM -N        ONA
Z Institutional Development         0 H    S) SU *M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                     O H OSUOM ON O NA
Social
u Povert Reduction            O H OSU OM ON O NA
? Gender                      O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Private sector development        0 H 0 SU 0 M O N 0 NA
1N Public sector management         0 H O SU *M O N 0 NA
n Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM ON * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS OU O HU
• Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
e Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
vL  S   I r   SS Vf                                N.  SA)  _  LA  NJ  VJ  N.J SlE71DWAAAAnr. nrr
S Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
I !mnlimontation aoency performance              On H    * S   CO n   C) HTr
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
-28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
.d,i fAppralSid rOpUn. Woird  Dn December 14, I992
Devel'opmetCd;Aent     ntWoldA Bank. March 14, 1993
Honduras ImDrovina Access. Efficiency and Oualitv of Care in the Health Sector World Rank Ortober
1997
Supplemental Credit World Bank January 20, 1999
Eighteen Project Status Reports. World Bank. Date.04.15.93; 09.10.93; 09.26.94; 06.28.95; 04.20.96;
02.05.96; 08.16.96; 06.24.97; 05.20.98;,12.31.98; 12.31.98; 06.25.99; 12.17.99; 06.25.99; 12.17.99;
06.23.00; 06.23.00; i 1.30.00; and 06.06.01.
,um   .ZsD,of ,' PrIect !.p*mn#a.*,;n  V MOO=PCU, 1999=2000
Pmiect Ramrogrammina of Onerational Activities MOH-PGU1 1 QQQ
Project Annual and Semi-Annual Evaluation. MOH-PCU, 1999 and, 2000
National Vaccination Program. MOH 1999 and 2000
Radio Communication Progress Report. MOH, 2000 and 2001
Project Amendments. World Bank, 12.14.93; 06.29.95; 04.12.96; 05.07.97; 06.23.98; 05.06.99; 01.06.00;
'4  ISfA IS.n r ISIS IA . 
12.4.00.v; 05.09.U I;
Aide-Mamnires and eTO of Variousii Riinrviinn Misinns Worlxd RBank. 07.1 QA910.07.9 ; 11.25.94;
…n.---fa.-        .u-.-i-.1-1-*-..-.-1- -...*-..-0.931-,   ~-.
03.28.95; 03.09.95; 03.28.95; 04.12.95; 05.18.95; 06.27.95; 08.11.95; 09.27.95; 04.10.96 ; 04.26.96;
07.23.96; 08.23.96: 10.18.96: 01.14.97: 06.20.97.: 12.07.97: 04.06.98: 05.04.98: 06.30.98; 07.14.98;
07.29.98; 12.98; 02.22.99; 08.13.99; 10.06.99;11.19.99; 04.24 00; 06.21.00;and 07.02 00;
PCU Aide- Memories of Internal Meetings. MOH- PCU, 03.01.94; 04.25.94;06.06.94; and 06.17.94;
Family Assistance Program (PRAF). 996, 200i Nutritionai Census.
Nvautlon,a:i        aIIU Familuy HUeauithi Survey, IVIMO1 I Cu.
Health in F.igures, various years, MOH
Statistics Bulletin, various years. MOH
Health Basic Indicators 1999, MOH .
Human Development Report, 2000, UNDP.
Social Indicators, 2000 National Secretariat of Planning
Preliminary Data of the National Survey on Epidemiology and Family Health, 2001, MOH .
Nacional Plan for AIDS Prevenci6n del SIDA 1993-1995. MOH
Official Indicators and Figures Provided by the Central Laboratory of MOH
- 29 -



Matemal Mortality Survey, 1996, MOH
- 30 -



BEId       i t_                                            t '  L-  ' di  =                   t,- iG 'A |
g   SANTA BAREARAf  \  , 4  S    ,'                 O ~~~~~~ILA iAA4A                beIn~      SeaOt°j  
-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
; v,u;ez zAt 9</                                                                  il& H 
LACRIRA D     ORatore t A-                             G  CI A  R
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              L A  N T D \O L 0 -N 'S zY 0  RAISz 
0AgooCoi."M               M-ce.
as        , /       -sOf Pe-P)        _-~                0Ma csslc AN-E orbl/8 
~~~~~~s.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~O ,SaI.P .b
-- PEDRO                                                                                           -- .
t-i;OtDa,/Kwo -e HO                           TE- A~-SR   y o    oo        so        I tooer NIoER   'A 1 epartmn Coiss      -
'N'r                                                               R  -C I 
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ,' R^'^         0                       31n,f9  6..........  .                ..S   L L.C  -        IhsobsnFprcehWoifn'sofxusx  fo  ies  
Rita                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i oo.
~~5s ~~~7(IjV4F>            OS                                                   DukANCoHr
SATA B1ARBAPA                                            LANCHO
SANTA ROSA® el-'-
Mmcl deC,e0  .~~~~~.  :  JUTICAI.PA
®GRAC A   7      co
'\®Ui ESPRRANZA/~~~~~  '~                           5     MAWLNUTRITION RATES OF CHILDREN
6 9       I~~~~~A PAI '. ti
5-oot moda0                                6-9 YEARtS OF: AGE:
EL ' .. . f ~ _ r '_p v - .   ................ _ \ f |TriUn} I~N  Dero ant Ewr L°iLhicLs o        PROJECT DEPARTMENTS
SALVADOR  ~~~~--~~~)                   C~pAR AISO    '   *
89,                                                   OEUSoc  h
U.                                        ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~39.1#  Malnutrition roles of children
Flora        '~~~~~~~~~~~~          dIP'>  ~~~~~~~~6-9 yecars of age within project
Ailoul.Pac;ficOctn     .        x  J  °  }             onireloolstotU>sofon;pterrlrfyrorrworioBtoriGloup;onyiuovomt  _  __  departentnts 
r.   No tional Capital
-1*i4OF DUIL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~H o          A               0         50        1 00 KILOMETERS  ®  Deportment Ccapitols
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,              Aioo            ,~.    .~Ti rph., b-. pr-p ...d by, Th. World Ront,. sIoff -e-u F,n
uo  DOG  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   p,'      .> ~~~~~~~~~~It,. ooo.n,oc. of ...udvder  nesfor it. ntern-Iu. fdThe worrd  .  - Department Boundarie,s
C)         tJ.'BnkGojp Th-erm,oin                                                     sd  -n1 ith. b-uda.ie  she- on tibi              .' 
n.eCO T~iR~i~..                                                ea d no inpy, ii. an,fTh WrldRak  rop.onjugnen  - International Boundlaries
POir#E88                        ~   '~           B              so, bounaries                     So--u  MOE, S--,reu  do  lr.nO I E-noor-t Hod ur  (SAEill  0
-  CG.OM5iA           ______                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~86,             C...o E-uol- TIo1.Ed.d, 1951O









IMAGING
Report No.:        24429
__     ~~~~Itrz
I ype;.  ._ x



