Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2452-1-HO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Nutrition and Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 6, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2452-1-HO 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Nutrition and Health Project) dated March 11, 1993 (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,500,000); and
(C) 
the Development Credit Agreement has been amended by means of letters 
from the Association to the Borrower dated December 14, 1993, June 22, 1994 and June 
29, 1995, countersigned by the Borrower on January 6, 1994, June 27, 1994, and July 
13, 1995, respectively;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (15) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below: 
“15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations”.”
Section 1.02. New paragraphs (z) through (ad) are added to Section 1.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
“(z)
“First Tranche” means an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to seventeen  million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR17,800,000) for 
the financing of 
Parts A through D of the Project;
(aa)
‘Hurricane’ means the hurricane Mitch that hit Central America 
with heavy 
rains from October 25 to November 1, 1998; 
(ab)
“Second Tranche” means an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to seven 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR7,500,000) for the financing of 
Part E of the Project;
(ac)
‘SEFIN’ means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance (Secretaría de 
Finanzas); and
(ad)
‘SETCO’ means the Borrower’s Technical Secretariat of 
International 
Cooperation (Secretaría Técnica de Cooperación 
Internacional).”.
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR25,300,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with 
each withdrawal valued by 
the Association as of the date of such withdrawal. The Credit 
shall be 
divided into the First Tranche and the Second Tranche.”.
Section 1.04. The following new paragraph (b) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Page  3
Development Credit Agreement and the existing paragraph (b) is designated as paragraph 
(c):
“(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts 
withdrawn from 
the Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall initially be charged 
against the First Tranche until that tranche 
has been exhausted, and shall thereafter 
be charged against the Second Tranche.”
Section 1.05. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date 
as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such 
later date.”.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement, reading as follows:
“, except that any commitment charge on the Second Tranche shall accrue 
from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement,”.
Section 1.07. The following new Section 3.20 is added at the end of Article III 
of the Development Credit Agreement
“Section 3.20. With regard to Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall 
take all 
measures necessary or advisable to ensure, to the satisfaction of 
the Association:
(a)
that the civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second 
Tranche are required to reconstruct or rehabilitate infrastructure damaged by the 
Hurricane; and 
(b)
that the proposed investment:
(i)
is technically and economically sound; and
(ii)
meets appropriate environmental standards.”
Section 1.08. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement.
Section 1.09. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex 2 to this Agreement.
Section 1.10. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
Page  4
evidence required by Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
August 4, 1999 this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Benjamín Zapata
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the First and the Second 
Tranches of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
   First Tranche of the  Second Tranche of the
Credit Allocated
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Food supplements 
   4,270,000
34% until 
withdrawals
under Part A.2
under this 
Category
have reached 
an
aggregate 
amount
equivalent to
SDR 
2,130,000;
and 20% 
thereafter
(2)
Medicines under Part
   3,050,000
100% 
B.5 of the Project
Page  5
(3)
(a) Works under 
   1,745,600 
   900,000
100% 
    Parts B.1, B.2 and
    E.2 of the Project
(b) Works under Parts   2,096,000
  1,800,800
100%
    C.1 and E.3 (a) of 
    the Project
(4)
Goods:
(a) under Part A.3
      200,000
100% 
net-of-taxes
    of the Project
(b) under Parts A.1,
    1,659,300
   2,410,000
100% 
net-of-taxes
    B.1, B.2, B.3
    B.4, C.1 and E of
    the Project
(c) under Parts D.2 and
30,000
      16,000
100% 
net-of-taxes
    E of the Project
(5)
Consultants’ services
and training:
(a) under Part A.3
      380,000
100%
    of the Project
(b) under Parts A.1,
    2,401,500           1,953,000
100%
    B.3, C.2, D.1 and
    E of the Project
(c) under Parts A.4,
      290,000
      61,000
100%
    D.2 and E of the
    Project
(6)
Salaries and operational 1,140,000
      123,000
100% 
of local
expenditures under
expenditures
Parts A.1 (b), B.3 (b) 
until 
withdrawals
and E of the Project
under 
this Category
have reached
an aggregate 
amount
equivalent to
SDR623,000;
then 75% of 
local
expenditures
until 
withdrawal
under this 
Category 
have reached
an aggregate 
amount
equivalent to
SDR 930,000; 
and
30% of local
expenditures
thereafter
Page  6
(7) Unallocated
      537,600
      236,200
    _________
     ________
TOTAL
   17,800,000
    7,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "local expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement except that withdrawals from the Second Tranche, 
in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR360,000, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures required to carry out Part E of the Project before that date but 
after October 25, 1998;
(b)
the amount of the Second Tranche allocated to Category 3 (b) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the proposed investment plan for Part E.3 (a) 
of the Project has been reviewed and approved by a consultative water group of 
membership structure and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, on the 
basis of criteria satisfactory to the Association, including: (i) coordination with 
SIF; and (ii) prioritization according to existent health risks in the beneficiary 
communities; and
(c)
the amount of the Second Tranche allocated to Category 3 (a) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association, 
with regard to Part E.2 of the Project, a plan for managerial improvements to be 
implemented in maternal clinics, satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
costing less than the equivalent of: (a) $100,000 in the case of goods and works 
(other than the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); 
(b) $50,000 in case of consulting firms’ services; (c) $25,000 in the case of 
individual consultants services); and (d) salaries and operational expenditures, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) protect groups vulnerable to the 
Borrower's economic adjustment process by providing nutrition assistance to children 
and pregnant and nursing women among the poorest segments of the population to improve 
their nutrition status; (b) support the development and implementation of a long-term 
nutrition strategy in the Borrower's territory; (c) reduce maternal, child and infant 
mortality and morbidity rates by: (i) improving the access of such population to basic 
health services and safe water supply and sanitation; (ii) improving the quality of 
services provided by the MOH to such population; (iii) supporting health, nutrition 
and family planning education activities in respect of such population; and (iv) 
monitoring and controlling the spread of AIDS; and (d) strengthen the institutional 
capacity of: (i) MOH's sector planning and procurement procedures for medicines; (ii) 
FAP's program administration; and (iii) the Borrower, in monitoring and evaluating the 
Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Nutrition Assistance
1.
Technical assistance to MOH (including the acquisition of goods therefor) in: 
(a) preparing and implementing a long-term nutrition policy in the Borrower's 
territory which will include, inter alia, an evaluation of the impact of FAP's food 
Page  7
coupon program and its administrative capacity to manage its activities; (b) training 
its health staff (including the provision of salaries required therefor) and community 
workers in breast feeding, weaning and early childhood practices to benefit about 
128,000 pregnant women, including mothers of children under the age of two in the 
Project Area; (c) supervising and evaluating the teaching of breast feeding, weaning 
and early childhood practices referred to in (b) above; and (d) carrying out a study 
of HIV's (Human Immunodeficiency Syndrome) transmission through breast feeding.
2.
Provision of food supplements to about 255,000 pregnant and nursing women, 
children under five and primary school children living in the BMI and BMJF Areas, to 
be selected amongst the poorest segments of the population.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to FAP (including the training of its staff 
and the acquisition of goods required therefor) in: (a) strengthening its 
institutional capacity, including FAP's financial controls, through the provision of 
external auditing services; and (b) improving the quality and operational efficiency 
of the food coupon program.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, through SCES, in carrying out 
annual censuses on anthropometric measurement of first graders in public schools (ages 
6 through 9) in its territory.
Part B:
Strengthening Basic Health Services
1.
Rehabilitation of about 130 primary health care centers in the BMI Area and 
acquisition of equipment therefor.
2.
Construction of about 30 primary health care centers in the BMI Area and 
acquisition of equipment therefor.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to MOH in: (a) carrying out a feasibility 
study for a radio communication network in the BMI Area, including the acquisition of 
goods to implement the results of such study; (b) strengthening its capacity to 
administer and supervise basic health services in the BMI Area through: (i) the hiring 
of about 28 physicians, 63 professional nurses, 168 auxiliary nurses, 6 laboratory 
technicians, 6 teachers of auxiliary nursing schools and 40 health promoters; (ii) the 
training of all the staff engaged in the provision of basic health services in such 
area; and (iii) the hiring of consultants for MOH's Project Unit; (c) carrying out a 
study to determine the factors constraining the private marketing of generic medicines 
in the Borrower's territory; (d) preparing and implementing a medium term AIDS control 
program for FYs 1993 through 1995, including the acquisition of goods required 
therefor; and (e) improving its procurement procedures for medicines.
4.
Acquisition of vehicles to assist MOH's personnel in the administration and 
supervision of the primary health care centers in the BMI Area.
5.
Acquisition of medicines for the primary health care services network in the 
Borrower's territory.
6.
Establishment of a maintenance fund in MOH for purposes of routine maintenance 
of its buildings, equipment and vehicles in the BMI Area.
Part C:
Water Supply and Sanitation
1.
Subprojects for the construction of water supply systems and sanitation 
facilities to benefit about 60,000 inhabitants in the rural areas of the Borrower's 
Departments of Choluteca, Valle, Intibuca and Lempira, including the acquisition of 
goods for the maintenance of such systems and facilities.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to MOH in: (a) carrying out a study of current 
waste disposal conditions in the primary health care centers in the Project Area; (b) 
preparing a training manual for its primary health care staff on appropriate medical 
and waste disposal practices; and (c) designing and implementing a training program 
for its auxiliary nurses, laboratory technicians and waste collection and disposal 
staff.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of the Borrower
Page  8
1.
Provision of technical assistance to MOH in: (a) carrying out studies on mother 
and child health care and nutrition programs relating to the objectives of the 
Project; (b) strengthening the Borrower's financial controls, including the provision 
of external auditing services; and (c) assessing its cost recovery program for the 
health sector, such assessment to focus, inter alia on: (i) the incentives for 
increasing its cost recovery program; (ii) the development of equitable and affordable 
recovery schedules; and (iii) the assistance to the MOH for expanding its cost 
recovery program.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, through SCES, in coordinating 
the implementation of the Project, including the acquisition of goods required 
therefor.
Part E: Hurricane Emergency Assistance
1.
Nutritional Assistance
Improvement of breastfeeding practices by strengthening the breastfeeding 
training programs under Part A.1 of the Project, and a carrying out a pilot program on 
integral health care delivery for children under five (5) years of age.
2.
Strengthening of Basic Health Services
(a)
Rehabilitation of infrastructure and provision of equipment to health 
facilities damaged by the Hurricane in poor communities within the Project Area.
(b)
Construction of maternal and child care health centers and provision of 
related equipment in the Project Area.
(c)
Acquisition and utilization of ambulances.
(d)
Expansion of radio communication infrastructure, including the carrying 
out of a feasibility study to develop a data communications system to exchange 
statistical data among the Borrower’s health facilities.
3.
Improvement of environmental health
(a)
Restoration of water supply and sanitation systems constructed under Part 
C.1 of the Project and affected by the Hurricane and extension of such systems to 
additional rural communities within the Project Area.
(b)
Extension of the medical waste disposal training program developed under 
Part C.2 of the Project to additional health facilities within the Project Area.
4.
Epidemiological surveillance, disease prevention and control
(a)
Rehabilitation of the Borrower’s cold chain network for vaccine storage.
(b)
Provision of laboratory and office equipment to the Borrower’s laboratory 
network.
(c)
Provision of in situ training of rapid assessment techniques applied to 
laboratory test work.
(d)
Rehabilitation of storage facilities for pharmaceutical products at the 
regional level damaged by the Hurricane.
(e)
Carrying out of the national vaccination campaigns of 1999 and 
mobilization of vector control brigades and health promoters to rural areas, including 
the acquisition and utilization of motorcycles for community outreach.
(f)
Carrying out of massive information, education and communication 
campaigns geared to induce behavioral changes among the population for the prevention 
of communicable diseases.
5.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, through SEFIN and SETCO, for 
Page  9
the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Project, including the 
acquisition of goods required therefor.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works financed by the First Tranche
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods other than medicines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the 
addition of the following text at the end of paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines: 
"Bidding documents for fixed-price contracts should provide that, when the contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the bid price will be 
increased by two standard correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be 
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such correction factor should not be taken into account in 
bid evaluation.".
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods other than medicines, shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to bids offering goods described in 
the accompanying specifications which are manufactured to a substantial extent in any 
country, including Honduras, which is a party to the Mercado Común Centroamericano, 
the common market created by the General Treaty of Central American Economic 
Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El 
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule, the following definitions shall 
apply:
(a)
(i)
the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Honduras, of the 
CACM, for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories and for which 
the bidder shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the entity or agency 
inviting bids 
that the manufacturing or processing cost of such goods include 
a 
value added in such territories equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid 
price of such goods;
(ii)
the term "Non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Honduras, of the 
CACM, for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories, other than any 
such bid classified as a 
Qualified CACM Bid; and
(iii)
the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is neither a Qualified 
CACM Bid nor 
a Non-Qualified CACM Bid.
2.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted and shall set forth the information required to 
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.
3.
Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of 
Page  10
imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
4.
Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared on the basis of 
their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following 
groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-Qualified CACM Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.
All bids in each group will be first compared among themselves, to determine the 
lowest evaluated bid in each such group.  The lowest evaluated bids of each group will 
then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated 
Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will be selected for 
purpose of award.
7.
If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above is a Foreign Bid, 
all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid 
as determined under paragraph 6 above.  For the purposes of this comparison only, each 
Foreign Bid will be compared on the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of entry) 
price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 above, plus an amount 
equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation 
of goods offered in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified CACM Bid; or 
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.  If the Qualified CACM Bid is the 
lowest evaluated bid in such comparison, it shall be selected for the purpose of 
award; otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under paragraph 6 
above shall be so selected.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods other than medicines estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 but less 
than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 but not more than $100,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Goods other than medicines estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,367,500, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association, provided, however, that works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$35,000 or less and up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,275,000, may be procured through direct contracting, in accordance with paragraph 
3.5 (f) of the Guidelines.
5.
Medicines shall be procured directly from UNICEF or another United Nation's 
agency acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section; and (iii) the 
agreement referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Standard Bidding Documents
All procurement of goods and works to which international or local competitive 
bidding applies shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to 
the Association.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants financed by the First Tranche
1.
In order to assist: (a) the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.1, A.4, B, C and D 
of the Project; and (b) FAP in carrying out Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ and cause FAP to employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$25,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Procurement of Goods and Works Financed by the Second Tranche
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996 and in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Page  12
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In respect of goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B and given the emergency 
nature of the goods and works to be procured, the provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 
2.64 of the Guidelines shall apply.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C.3 and C.4 hereof, works estimated to 
cost less than $500,000 but more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,193,300, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of the goods and works under the provisions of this Part C.1, the Borrower 
shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less but more then 
$25,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract but more then 
$35,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting of Goods and Works
(a)
Works under Part E of the Project, costing $35,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $550,000; and
(b)
motorcycles and radio equipment under Part E of the Project costing less 
than $350,000 and $75,000, respectively, in total, 
may be procured from contractors in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  13
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract for works procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts B and C.1 
hereof; and
(ii)
each contract for goods procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B hereof,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods or works, as the case 
may be, procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 hereof:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the 
Borrower shall provide the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section IV.
Employment of Consultants financed by the Second Tranche
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Association’s prior review and approval.
Section V.
Special Provisions
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts C.1 and C.2 
of Section I, and C. 1 (a) and (b) of Section III of this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to:
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors 
are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures 
under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Sections II 
and IV of this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
Page  15
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
Section VI.
Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, any approval of bidding documents and contracts required under 
the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by MOH.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of contracts or of 
consultant selection processes required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be given 
only by MOH.
