Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 7327
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 1825-CO)
June 23, 1988
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL               Direct Exchange Line
EDA               Empresas Departamentales de Antioquia
EPH               Empresas Ptblicas de Medellin
TELECOM           Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones



FOR OmcIL US ONLY
THE WOtLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok.e di OVtEcI4.GqwUI
Opwfahm EvahItn
June 23, 1988
MEHORANDUK TO ?HE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Fifth Telecommunications Proiect (Loan 1825-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Colombia Fifth Telecommunications Project (Loan
1825-CO)" prepared by the Latin AAerica and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
not been made.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word fank authibutioe.



COLOMBIA                      FOR OmCIuAL USE O!NLY
LN. 1825-CO
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................
BASIC DATA SHEET              ..................iI........                    i
HIGHLIGHTS ........................................................    iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................           1
II.  PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT .....................           4
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST .............................           8
IV.  OPERATIONS ..................................................    13
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS ...........................................    16
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ...................................    19
VI.  ROLE OF THE IBRD ............................................    21
VII.  CONCLUSION ..................................................    22
Annexes (Attached in English):
3   Basic Information ...........................................    23
4   Performance Indicators ......................................    24
7   Estimated versus Actual Costs ...............................    25
9   Comparison Economic Indicators ..............................    26
10   Allocation of IBRD Loan ......................................    27
11 Cumulative Disbursements .28
12 Calls Made and Answered .29
13 Operations Status .30
15 General Balance Sheet .                                                  31
18 Comments from the Borrower .32
Annexes (Not Attached and Available in Spanish)
1   Construction Timetable
2   Physical Goals
5   Procurement Status
6   Estimated Project Costs
8   Annual Investment (In Millions of Colombian Pesos)
14   Source and Use of Funds (In Millions of Colombian Pesos)
15a  Estimated and Actual Tariffs
15b  Yearly Investments (In Millions of US$ and Colombian Pesos)
15c  Yearly Income and Expenses
16   Rate of Return (In Millions of Colombian Pesos)
17   Organizational Chart
IBRD Map No. 14804
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World llank authorization.



COLOMBIA
LN. 1825-CO
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This report presents the results of a performance review of the
Fifth Telecommunications Project, for which Ln. 1825-CO of US$44 million
was made to the Public Utilities of Hedellin (EPM). The Loan became
effective in October 1981, and was closed in June 1986.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by EPM in August 1986.
The Division of Ptnancial Programming of EPM coordinated the writing of the
report and received support from the different divisions of the Telephone
Company, which participated both directly and indirectly in the development
of this project. The Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project
Agreemente, and other reports related to project implementation were used
as background materials.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following normal procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Government and the Executing Agency for comments. The comments
received have been taken into account in finalizing the report and are
reproduced as Annex 18.



- il -
COLOMBIA
LK. 1825-CO
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                      Apgraisal Estimates        Actual
Total Project Cost (USS Millions)               110.0              102.8
Overrun (Z)                                                          (7)
Loan Amount (USS Millions)                       44.0               44.0
Disbursed                                     44.0               44.0
Date of Physical Completion                  Dec 1984            Jun 1986
Proportion Completed by Above Dates (Z)          100                100
Financial Performance                                Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                              Excellent
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate         Actual
1980                  3,170
1981                 18,970
1982                 32,070                 6,831
1983                 40,770                29,498
1984                 43,566                37,617
1985                 44,000                41,893
1986                 44,000                44,000
EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit                              Colombian Peso
Appraisal Year Average (FY79)              US$1.00 - Col Pesos 44.05
Average Over-Project-Period (FYs80-85)    US$1.00 - Col Pesos 56.49
Completion Year Average (FY85)             US$1.00 - Col Pesos 143.09
Average Exchange Rates:                        Colombian Pesos/US$1.00
Year Ending      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984      1985
December 31     47.46      55.00     64.68      79.53     101.33    143.09



- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                     Appraisal Estimates               Actual
First Mention in Timetable                     -                    Nov-Dec 19
Government Application                         -                      Feb 79
Negotiations                                   -                       Feb 80
Board Approval                                 -                   Mar 27, 1980
Loan Agreement Date                       Nov 1980                 Dec 19, 1980
Effective Date                            Mar 1981                 Oct 30, 1981
Closing Date                            Jun 30, 1985               Jun 30, 1986
Borrower: Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM)
Executing Agency: Empresas Publicas de Medellin %EPM)
MISSION DATA
Mouth/      No. of       No. of       staff       Date of
PurPose          Year        Weeks       Persons       Weeks      Report
Appraisal             11/79         2            2           4        3/07/1980
Full Spvn. 1           2/81         1            2           2       3/18/1981
Full Spvn. 2           8/82         2            1           2       9/01/1982
Full Spvn. 3           3/83         1            1           1       4/04/1983
Full Spvn. 4           6184         1            1           1       6/29/1984
Total                      7           7           10



- iv -
COLOMBIA
LN. 1825-CO
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Bank has so far been involved in five telecommunications
lending operations in Colombia. Four loans made to TELECOM ("Empresa
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones") contributed to the rational development of
this sector and to institution building, with a frequent improvement in
service and reduction in operating costs, resulting from standardization
and consol:dation of operations.
2.       The Fifth Telecommunications Project was approved in March 1980,
and completed in June 1986. The Borrower's performance in most aspects was
exemplary.  Despite cumbersome legal procedures in Colombia, procurement
and contracting were carried out expeditiously.
3.       Overall project achievements include:
a)       Subscriber services were improved, with the installation of
127,000 new lines in tledellin and in outlying municipalities,
whereas the original project called for the installation of only
108,000 lines. Capacity increased during the period by 67Z and
subscribers by 52Z. Waiting fell dramatically (see Annex 4 and
para. 3.02);
b)       Accounts receivable decreased from 76 days in 1980, to 19 days in
1985 (see Annex 4 and para. 3.09f);
C)       Improved procurement procedures that adhered to Bank guidelines
resulted in cost savings to EPH. The original bid invitations had
to be recalled for legalistic reasons, because they were issued
before loan signing, without a waiver to follow Bank guidelines,
particularly with respect to local preference. Delayed loan
signing was an. issue for all loans in Colombia at that time.
(This problem was subsequently resolved.) The legal problems
resulted in the one-year delay in project execution (see paras.
3.10-3.12); and
d)       EPM was able to reprogram efficiently physical requirements as
circumstances dictated, installing fewer lines in communities that
showed less need and reallocating the surplus lines to central
exchanges where demand was greater (para. 3.0Z(a)).



COLOMBTA
LN. 1825-CO
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCT'ON
1.01     The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Borrower, Empresas
P(blicas de Medellin (EPM), and submitted to the World Bank in August 1986. It
provides a good description of the Project's origins, execution, achievements,
and problems. The quality of the report is an indication of the effectiveness
and efficiency of the institution which carried out the Project. Since the
report accurately and fairly represents most aspects of the Project, a mission
was not considered necessary; Bank staff have merely commented on a few aspects
noted in or absent from the Borrower's version.
1.02     This is the fifth Telecommunications Project in Colombia supported by
the Bank, but the first effort to strengthen a municipal telephone system. The
objectives of prior loans for Colombian telecommunications have been to:
(a) strengthen the natiL.1l company; (b) improve long-distance service;
Xc) integrate wany small inefficient municipal and provincial companies into the
national company; and (d) improve service at those localities. Progress in
achieving each of those objectives has been made in the four previous loans.
However, the task of integration, modernization, and rationalization of tele-
phone service is far from complete. One of the objectives of the EPM Project
was to expand the coverage of the best municipal company, with an eye to incor-
porating neighbouring areas within its purview. Under the first project, only a
modest effort was made to expand services to rural areas adjacent to Medellin.
To broaden EPM's coveragc substantially to one or two entire Departments would
be difficult to achieve politically, and would probably require a concerted Bank
approach with EPH and other participants in the sector. Obviously, with the
decision to discontinue telecommunications lending to Colombia, this objective
could not be furthered.
Performance of the Borrower
1.03     The Borrower's performance on most events was exemplary.  Despite
generally cumbersome legal procedures in Colombia which EPM must follow,
procurement and contracting were carried out expeditiously. EPM is a well-
managed organization, experienced in managing Bank projects. It has consistent-
ly been cited by the Bank as an outstanding public utility (with the exception
of a brief period in the early 19708, when the institution became politicized).
For a period of about 10 years, EPM had the continuous benefit of a single
General Manager of outstanding caliber, who died in 1986. Such continuity is
rare with most Bank Borrowers, and was clearly an important factor in the
Project's success.
Rates of Return
1.04     Despite the efficiency of project execution, the post mortem internal
financial rate of return of the Project was calculated by EPH at a very low
3.5S--the estimate at appraisal was 162. The return would remain low even if



adjustments were made in allocating benefits and costs of previous investments
and if other methodological problems were taken into account, such as
determining revenues for the without-project situation. The result seems
particularly surprising, in view of the apparentIy exceedingly high return
(between 182 and 321 for 1981-84) on revalued assets, compared to the 92 minimum
covenanted.
1.05     Ths low financial rate of return for the Project results from two main
factors. First, revenues were lower than anticipated in peso terms, because
actual tariff increases were lower than projected and delayed. At the same
time, project costs in peso terms were 35Z higher than expected, because of the
more rapid rate of devaluation than anticipated and the corresponding increased
peso cost of equipment purchased abroad. More rapid inflation also contributed
to higher local costs. Tariff increases in Colombia were generally frozen
(although some inflation correction was permitted) in 1983 and 1984.1   Medellin
tele:hone tariffs were finally raised, but not to the extent needed. This
occurred only after the author cf EPM's proposal became Secretary of the
?ational Tariff Board in 1984, and only then were the concepts of marginal cost
pricing supported.
1.06     The apparently high rate of return on revalued assets is simply a mis-
nomer. The methodology used for asset revaluation results in a gross under-
statement of asset value, perhaps by nearly an order of magnitude. We believe
that a more realistic valuatiocl of EPM's telephone assets would result in rates
of return on revalued assets of between 12 and 5? during the 1981-85 period.
Such a return would not have complied with the Loan Agreement. The issue of
asset revaluation was picked up by the Bank in late 1983, highlighted in a
letter to EPM, but never followed up adequately. EPM's apparent lack of concern
in pursing the matter is somewhat perp; xing, since over a number of years the
entity had been pushing for a significant tariff increase. It therefore would
have been in in its own interest to demonstrate non-compliance with the Bank's
covenant.
1.07     An economic rate of return for the Project was not calculated.  If it
were, it is likely that it would be high, in line vith appraisal estimates, with
the consumers receiving the bulk of the large surplus. Medellin telephone
tariffs were significantly lower than elsewhere in Colombia. They remain some-
what lower2  and could be easily raised to capture some of the consumer surplus,
if the politics could be appropriately managed.
Performance of the Bank
1.08     The report notes the advantages of adopting the Bank's procurement
procedures, which resulted in lower prices. The Bank's technical advice,
including specifications for bidding documents, was received positively, and
clearly made a difference. The Project itself was uncomplicated, and, since the
Borrower was performing adequately, supervision was limited--there were only
four supervision missions during the entire execution period. The Bank's major
contribution was in advising the Borrower on ways to organize telephone services
1/ It is interesting that a countrywide tariff freeze was sparked in part
by demonstrations over large tariff increases for Bogota telephone
service, nearly simultaneously with increases in other utilities.
21 Impulse rates by 198(X were equal to the rates of other telephone
companies. However, other local rates remain lower.



-3-
more efficiently within .PM. The Bank's recommendations were followed, without
the need for a strong covenant. An important result was that telephone opera-
tions no longer remain a stepchild in this electricity-power-dominated company
(electricity accoants for over three-quarters of EPM's assets). The Bank's low
attention level to the Project did have serious consequences, as mentioned in
the previous section. The Bank's decision to agree to EPM's proposal for use of
Project savings took over one year, and, most importantly, the Bank did not play
an active role in seeking tariff revisions, as it did in power and water supply,
nor in dealing with the issue of asset revaluation.
Lessons Learned
1.09     In contrast to standard Bank wisdom, the individual services of public
utilities need not be independent. An appropriate organizational structure
within each company is needed to provide the efficacy of such services. Good
management can operate multiple services, and separating these services when
there is ineffectual management would not necessarily result in improvements.
Among the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, the other example of
successful project execution in this area is ANTEL in Costa Rica, another public
utility with multiple services. In fact in countries like Colombia--with bet-
ter than average management in general, but with many poorly run utilities--it
may be preferable to leave a positive situation alone, rather than risk the
possible deterioration of two or more services by separating them for limited
financial reasons or gains, to avoid subsidizing one serviee by another. In the
case of EPM, the Bank understood this intuitively from the beginning, although
it did discuss initially the possibility of complete separation.
1.10     Management's continuity is critical.  This view Is frequently voiced,
but rarely taken seriously. As an illustration, the Fourth Telecommunications
Project (IBRD Ln. 1450-CO) was negotiated with an excellent management at the
end of an Administration's term in Colombia. A report will be forthcoming on
this project, but the contrasts with the Project under review are impressive.
Whilc many factors are important, two key ones have been the continuity ot the
entire management team throughout the Project--from identification to its near
completion--along with a large number of highly professional staff and managers
who have come up through the ranks. (The Costa Rican company, ANTEL, is another
example where continuous professional management has been the rule.) The value
of such continuity and professionalism should never be underemphasized or
u.Aerestimated.



-4-
II. PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT3
Backaround
2.01     In December 1978, EPM prepared a plan for the expansion of the tele-
phone system for the period 1980-1990. A World Bank mission vis:ted Colombia in
November-December 1979. In collaboration vith EPM staff, they completed the
draft of the 19.0-84 plan, and established the basis for partial financing of
the Project. The Bank's study was included in Report No. 2795-CO, dated March
7, 1980. Negotiations between EPM and the Colombian Government took place over
1979 and 1980; normally, the bureaucratic process is drawn out for Government
approval of such loans in the telecommunications sector.  The Bank Board
approved this loan on March 27, 1980, and the loan contract was signed on
December 19, 1980.
2.02     On October 31, 1979, there were over 43,400 pending requests for new
installations within the areas of operation of EPM; a significant number of
pending requests dated back to the mid-1970. and others to the 1960s.
2.03     The principal reasons for undertaking the Fifth Telecommunications
Project were:
(a)      At the national level, only about 500 of 4,500 rural communities exist-
ing in 1978 had access to telephone service, which attested to the need
to expand these services to rural areas;
(b)      Even though telephone density in Colombia increased from 2.4 telephones
per 100 inhabitants in 1967  to 5.6 in 1978--above the average found in
other Latin American countries--a greater effort was required from EPM
to meet the goal of expanding its radius of coverage which, with 17
telephones per 100 inhabitants, was the highest of Colombian cities;
and
(c)      The need to provide large rural sectors and medium-sized urban communi-
ties with public telephones, benefitting many persons at a relatively
low cost.
2.03     Among the existing deficiencies was the high congestion of service in
Medellin, especially during peak hours--during this time, only about 46Z of the
calls were completed, sad about 20S of those calls were lost or not completed
when there was a busy  signal.
2.04     A major problem lay in the long time taken to repair faults.  The per-
centage of repaired faults in a 24-, 48-, 72- or more-than-72-hour period was
cumulatively 38S, 70?, 80S, and 100l, respectively. This explains why EPM was
interested in implementing adequate mechanisms to reduce both the number of
faults and their repair time.
31 The remainder of this report is a translation of the Project Completion
Report prepared by the Borrower, EPM.



5
PreDaration and Justification
2.05     In drafting the 1980-84 telecommunications plan, EPM took into account
the development plans of the Municipal Planning Agency, the Regional Credit
Institute, and other entities which have inputs into the urban development of
the city of Medellin and the municipalities served by EPM.
2.06     Demand was projected until 1990, based on zoning and other deve'Dpment
plans. Based on this projection, programs were elaborated for the installation
of lines in the plants, and connection of new subscribers per year and per
central exchange took place. Other factors were also considered important:
(a) the construction program of a commercial and residential complex called
Niquia, in the municipality of Bello, where the population was estimated to be
about 80,000 by 1990; (b) the tendency of Medellin to develop toward neigh-
bouring communities to the East, where the new airport was under construction
and where new industries would hopefully be based. The methodology employed in
projecting demand, based on the known block-by-block analysis and on local expe-
rience, uses parameters which have proven to be precise and reliable in the
past.
*        2.07     Since EPM was to acquire new technology in the form of digital central
exchanges, contracts for telephone lines included training courses and o-ienta-
tion programs, both in Medellin and abv.oad. The Fifth Telecommunications Proj-
ect was implemented directly by EPM, which de-ided it was not necessary to
contract with a specialized firm to provide consulting services. Communications
is a very specific technology, evolving dynamically, and only corporations which
provide telecommunications equipment have the requisite knowledge of their own
systems.
2.08     In summary, EPM found it advantageous to implement the Project jointly
with the equipment providers and their personnel.
Role of the Proiect in the Lona-Term Plan
2.09     The basic objectives of the Project may be summarized as follows:
(a)      Satisfy the demand for telephone service in the Metropolitan Area of
Me4ellin and the adjacent eastern zone of Antioqine, with optimal
quality, reasonable prices and in a timely fashion.
(b)      Provide efficient and timely customer service by speeding up adminis-
trative procedures, requests for equipment installation, and repairing
faults;
I  (c)    Train personnel at all levels so that they will be capable of main-
taining, operating, and applying technological progress to EPM's
telecommunications network;
(d)      Make the system flexible, allowing it to adapt to unforeseen urban
changes, such as expansion, rehabilitation, density changes and uses of
land; and
(e)      Regulate, provide, and control financial, human, technical, and organi-
zational resources, to guarantee self-financing for the operation,
maintenance, and expansion of the Project.



-6-
Proiect Description
2.10     The initial Project design included the following:
(a)      Acquisition and installation of approximately 108,400 units of local
exchange equipment;
(b)      Installation of about 90,000 subscriber lines and the acquisition of
cables and plants for subscribers;
(c)      Acquisition of subscriber cables and plants to allow installation of
approximately 10,000 additional connections for which EPM has already
contracted the local exchange equipment;
(d)      Acquisition and installation of about 3,300 public telephones to serve
primarily low-income urban and rural population; and
(e)      Construction and expansion of buildings in which to house Project
equipment.
Covenants
2.11     TLe loan agreement with the Bank (Ln. 1825-CO) stipulates, among other
requirements, that EPM will fulfill the following conditions:
(a)      The Borrower shalls  (i) have audited for each fiscal year its accounts
and financial statements (general balance sheets, income statements,
expenses) and related statements in accordance with sound accounting
principles, consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but not later
than three months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies
of its unaudited finrAnclal statements for each such year; (iii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than 5 months after the
end of each such years (a) certified copies of its financial staterjents
for that year as so autited, and (b) the report of such audit by the
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested (Sec 5.02).
(b)     Not later than three months after the end of each calendar year, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, showing
the Borrower's performance through the end of such year and projected
through the following 12 months. (Section 5.03)
(c)     The Borrower in the carrying out of its telephone operations shall take
all such steps as shall be necessary (including adjustment of tariffs)
in order to generate an annual return at a rate of at least nine per
cent (9Z) on the average net current value of its fixed Telephone
Assets in operation calculated in accordance with the method outlined
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. (Section 5.07b)
(d)     The Borrower shall, within the first three months of each calendar
year: (i) calculate in respect of its Telephone Department, the actual
return earned in the course of the 12-month period imediately pre-
ceding such years; and (ii) calculate the return which, on the basis of



-7-
reas.nable estimates, is expected to be earned in the course of the
12-mouth period beginning with such year, after adding to or
subtracting from the estimated operating income for such period any
overrun or shortfall in the actual return for the preceding 12-month
periods and (iii) furnish to the Bank the assumptions for and the
results of such c&lculations. (Section 5.07c)
(e)     If any such calculation shall show that the Borrower cannot be expected
to earn in respect of its Telephone Department the return required
under paragraph (b) during the 12-month period commencing with the
calendar year in which the calculation is made, the Borrower shall, not
later than April 30 of such year take all action necessary or advisable
on its part for adjusting its tariffs for the services provided by the
Telephone Department accordingly, and the adjusted tariffs shall be
brought into effect by September 1 of such year. (Section 5.07(d))"



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Effective Date of the Loan and Proiect Start-Up
3.01     The first loan disbursement took place in March 1982, i.e., 13 months
after signing the Agreement. Reasons for the delays are given below, as is the
framework of bid procurement financed by the World Bank. Prior to loan signing,
a contract had been signed with Ericsson of Colombia on July 4, 1980 for the
provisioL and financing of 43,400 lines; later, on December 9, 1981 a similar
contract was signed with the C.G.C.T. of France for the provision and financing
of 5,000 lines.  These 48,400 lines were included in the cost of the Fifth Tele-
communications Project.  In addition to the earlier credits, a loan was obtained
from the Royal Bank of Canada in the amount of US$12 million, signed on June 4,
1981, complementing this Project and ensuring the financing of non-Project
investments for the 1980-84 EPM telephone development.
Revisions/Changes
3.02     The principal changes in the physical goals of the Project and the
reasons for them are stated belowt
(a)      Internal Plant:  The following framework indicates the differences in
the estimated number of lines:
Category                  Initial Plan   Contract Quantity
International bidding        56.000            79.000
C.G.C.T.                      9.000             5.000
Ericsson                     43.400            43.400
Total                  108.400           127.400
There was a real increase of 19,000 lines.  Having taken into account
the prices offered by the Japanese firm C. Itoh in the international
bidding for 56,000 telephone lines, it was decided to accept the 25?
option (14,000 lines) offered in the bids. Similarly, in view of the
favorable prices and unmet demand for telephone service in the
exchanges of Castilla and Bosque, an additional 9,000 lines were
purchased directly, completing the 79,000 lines contracted.
Installation of 4,000 lines were originally estimated for the exchange
of Miraflores; however, based on the telephone demand in that area, it
was necessary to install only 3,000 lines. These were taken from the
additional 9,000 lines purchased from C. Itoh. As a result, it was
unnecessary to purchase the remaining 4,000 lines from the C.G.C.T.
:ne 5,000 lines purchased from C.G.C.T., as originally planned, were
installed in the San Bernardo Exchange;
(b)      External Plant:  Installation of 4,743 public telephones was planned
for 1980-85; based on their availability in the stores at the end of
1979, 4,125 telephones were purchased. Subsequently, in 1982, a high
incidence of faults in Type CNC-2100 and their high repair costs to the
EPM's public telephones was noticed. For this reason, it was decided
to replace 2,200 of the 4,125 CNC-2100 telephones and, to fulfill the
Project's objectives, to purchase an additional 2,200 telephones.



- 9 -
3.03     To fulfill the Project's installation program in some exchanges, an
additional 39,290 kilometer pairs of cables had to be purchased domestically, to
avoid further delays in the works, since the third international delivery of
plastic cables was delayed by six months.
Implementation Schedule
3.04     Project completion had originally been foreseen for December 1984.  The
individual analysis of each component of the Project's framework best illustrate
its time frame.
3.05     The construction diagram from Annex 1 (not attached) indicates that the
estimated date for the last installation of the telephone lines was the same as
had been foreseen. The three-month difference shown on the chart corresponds to
the Project's additional lines. There were partial delays in the delivery of
many of the exchanges due to: (a) technical problems of interconnection with
present equipment; (b) delays in the construction of some of the buildings to
begin the installation; and (c) manufacturer's changes of the software programs
to facilitate the equipment's maintenance. The delay of nearly one year in the
installation of the cables and networks reflects some setbacks in the operations
section of EPM, specifically in not providing services to its users in spite of
having lines available in the plants.   This situation, while not corrected
during the Project's duration, did oblige EPM to makt ;             progress in
increasing the yenrly number of new subscribers.
3.06     The above analysis also explains the delay in the installation of desk
telephones, in spite of their having been received on schedule from the
suppliers. Because of the high operating costs to EPM, it was necessary to
replace a large number of coin-operated telephones and to purchase others.
Expansion of the initial objectives was reflected in an extension of the time
required to implement them.
3.07     Physical Goals.  Annex 2 (not attached) shows the number of lines for
each central telephone exchange, as well as the estimated and actual date of
initiating service. In addition to the differences mentioned in section 3.02 of
this report, the delay in the date of entry into service is due to the delay in
implementing the contracts. The performance of the contractors permitted making
up for lost time and meeting the goals.
3.08     Basic Data.  Baqic data on installed capacity, number of subscribers,
public telephones, and pulses are shown in Annex 3 (attached), and are discussed
in other sections of this report.
3.09     Performance Indicators.  Following are some brief comments on various
indicators not mentioned previously, and which appear on Annex 4 (attached).
(a)      Number of Employees:  As one of the conditions for improving the quali-
ty of telephone service for 1980-84, the employment of about 600 per-
sons was planned, so as to achieve a higher ratio between employees and
installed phone lines: 4.7 per 1,000 lines. At the end of the Proj-
ect, a ratio of only 2.9 (1,260/426,000) was achieved. In this regard,
it should be noted that, for quite a while, it has been EPM's policy to
complete certain works by contracting them out, instead of hiring the
persons directly. This policy partly explains the results obtained in
this analysis;



- 10 -
(b)      Rate of Return on Revalued Assets:  The Bank was kept informed of their
performance on an annual basis for the period 1980-85. EPM achieved
the estimated rate of 9Z on the net revalued assets. The smaller
actual value of these assets. compared to the projected figures, was
instrumental in achieving the objectives;
(c)      Operations Ratids  This is defined as the ratio between operational
costs (including contributions to the Municipality of Medellin, but
excluding interest on the contributions) and operational income. This
ratio showed high i:adices in 1983 and 1984, reflecting higher internal
inflation rates than had been estimated. Nevertheless, as of 1985, the
trend toward a decrease in this relationship -ws the efforts made by
EPM to reduce their costs;
d)       Debt Service Coverafe:  This was established as the number of times
that the gross internal cash generation covered the service debt.
During the Project's duration, this coverage showed actual values to be
higher than those projected, due to interest rates and amortization
lower than estimated in the initial appraisal. Delays in the commence-
ment of some of the works and favorable conditions in the signing of
credit agreements produced this decrease in the Empresas de Tel6fonos'
debt;
(e)      Current Ratio:  A higher ratio than originally estimated is shown due
to higher current assets, especially in the inventory entry;
(f)      Accounts Receivable:  Defined as the relationship between customers'
arrears and operational income, in days, they show substantial improve-
ments, resulting from the strict control that EPM has maintained over
its portfolio, particularly in the Government sector. Betwee-~ 1984 and
1985, this sector's debts remained at the same level, although the
Government was billed for higher amounts.
Procurement
3.10     The bidding process showed important advantages with regard to the
preparation of specifications, as EPM benefitted from the Bank's expertise in
the definition of terms, technical specifications, and criteria for evaluation.
Most of the offers received by EPM complied with specified requirements, facili-
tating their evaluation and comparison. No problems were encountered in the
procurement procedures. Annex 5 (not attached) gives a detailed account of the
steps taken for the adjudication of bids No. IBRD V-01 to V-07.
3.11     It is necessary to point out that EPM had to recall the bidding docu-
ments which it had put on sale, since the Bank's requirements were considered
contrary to Colombian law, particularly with regard to giving preference to
locally manufactured goods. Consequently, it was necessary to request an exemp-
tion from compliance with legislation in force regarding the protection of
domestic industry from the National Council of Social and Economic Policy
(CONPES). This exemption was obtained; however, this procedure resulted in an
eight-month delay in the original timetable.
3.12     The Bank's approval of the Adjudication Report for the 56,000 initial
lines was a far more involved process than EPM anticipated; in the end, EPM's



- 11 -
choice was accepted, even though it was not the lowest bidder (Phillips quoted
lower prices), since EPM's choice was found to be more adaptable to the system's
technical requirements. Generally, it can be said that the Bank's guidance in
the bidding process for the procurement of telephone lines was very useful. The
experience of Bank personnel in this type of bidding--not only in Colombia, but
in other countries--was very helpful.
3.13     Costs
(a)      Estimated Project Cost:  The estimated project cost is about
Col$6,313.7 million (US$110.0 million), which includes a foreign
currency investment of US$67.7 million. These costs are shown in
detail in Annex 6 (nct attached). Price contingencies included in the
project costs represent 36Z of the total base costs.
The estimated increase in local costs were: for 1980, 22.5Z; for 1981,
18Z; and a yearly increase of 15? for 1982-84. The estimated annual
increase for costs in foreign currency were: 10.5? in 1980; 9? in
1981; 8? in 1982; and a yearly 7? for 1983 and 1984.
The projection of these contigencies and of the rate of exchange be-
tween the Colombian peso and the U.S. dollar were based on expectations
or projects in Colombia at the time of appraisal. No physical contin-
gencies were necessary, other than variations in quantities which can
occur in the construction of buildings and in laying down pipes; these
were estimated at about 7? of domestic costs; and
(b)      Actual Proiect Cost:  The actual project costs, compared to estimated,
appear in Annex 7 (attached); investment during the construction period
is shown in Annex 8 (not attached).
In Annex 7, it may be noted that the actual project cost increased by
35Z in terms of Colombian pesos and decreased by 7X in terms of U.S.
dollars. This is due to the greater than expected devaluation of the
peso in the 1980-85 period, as may be seen in Annex 9 (attached).
3.14     The variations in costs may be summarized as follows:
(a)      Telephone Lines:  Savings of up to US$70/line over their estimated cost
were obtained in the acquisition of 79,000 lines, because of the larger
number of lines bid on and the great technological evolution in elec-
tronic systems, which reduced production costs. Nevertheless, there
were cost overruns on 43,400 lines, due to their delayed delivery;
(b)      Cabless  Although some savings on their actual cost were realized, the
greatest benefits were-seen in the system's decreased maintenance cost,
because of the high quality of the cables acquired;
(c)      Subscriber Plant:  Its increased cost was due primarily to the acquisi-
tion of tools, connectors, and a greater number of telephone connec-
tions than originally estimated, to provide service to new subscribers.
At the same time, local inflation resulted in increased installation
costs; and



- 12 -
(d)      Public Telephones:  The purchase of a large number of coin-operated
equipment resulted in higher costs.
3.15     Disbursements:  Annex 10 (attached) shows projected and actual dis-
bursements by category. The principal differences are:
(a)      Cateaory I - Telephone lines:  Disbursements in this category increased
due to the purchase of 79,000 lines, instead of the 56,000 lines con-
sidered during the first appraisal. In addition, the cost of MIC
equipment and subscriber single channel carriers were included;
(b)      CateRory II - Cables:  Their actual cost decreased compared to their
estimated cost, largely due to the decreased purchase cost of plastic
cables from the NKF KABEL BV firm, resulting from the devaluation of
the Dutch Florin (currency of the purchase order). Similarly, several
negative values in the readjustment formulas reflect the lower price of
copper on the international market;
(c)      Category III - Subscriber Plant:  The estimated financing budget was
very similar to the actual results; and
(d)      Category IV - Public Telephones:  The increased allocation of resources
was due to the purchase, with IBRD financing, of more telephones than
planned at appraisal.



- 13 -
IV. OPERATIONS
4.01     EPM was satisfied with the quality and efficiency of the equipment and
the civil works contracted for. The specifications of the main equipment were
in accordance with the technical specifications required in the bids, and were
reviewed by the Bank. However. those operational areas where Empresas de
Telefonos achieved better results in the course of the Project's implementation
should be noted.
4.02     Internal Plant
(a)      Special attention was given to the use of the electromechanical
exchanges, in order to reduce to less than 3 seconds the waiting time
for dial tones. To achieve this, programs were developed to reduce
congestion, transferring some high volume subscribers to new
exchanges. At present the "Autrax* equipment is producing optimum
results: this equipment was purchased as part of the maintenance and
traffic measuring equipment for the electromechanical exchanges;
The efficiency of this system is measured by the percentage of calls
made and completed.  Annex 12 shows the distribution of calls made
between 1981 and 1985, and the noticeable improvement in the quality of
subscriber calls;
The coupling between the conventional electromechanical systems and the
new digital exchanges shows distinct improvements in transmission
quality and in fault detection;
(b)      The purchase of electronic exchanges was economically and technically
advantageous to EPH.  Economic advantages include:  lower purchase
cost; lower construction cost--since smaller spaces were needed; lower
energy consumption; and a decrease in the personnel needed for
operation and maintenance;
The technical advantages include:  incorporation of new services (less
dialing time, secret codes, videotext, data, etc.); minimum chance of
blockage in the communication; centralization of management; operation
and maintenance; greater ease in modifying the redistribution of inter-
connection routes; computer assistance for the operation and analysis
of the central exchanges; and
(c)      The introduction of toll ticketing in EPH's telephone system
contributed to widespread use of automatic domestic long distance
service, as the subscribers could verify by their bills the number and
place called, the length, and the cost of the communication. The
number of complaints reg.rding the long distance service decreased
significantly.
4.03     External Plant.  Regarding operation of the External Plant, it is
important to underline the change in policy in the management of coin-operated
telephones and the purchase of subscriber carriers and humidity-resistant cable.
(a)      Coin-Overated Telephon-es: The policy regarding installation of public
telephones was modifiel; they are again being put in stalls, rather



_ 14 -
than in enclosed booths, as had been done previously. This change
resulted in their increased use. In December 1985, 2,475 of 4,950
telephones were placed in st.alls; this figure represeuts about 50? of
the phones. This policy will continue in the future, and hopefully
will include between 75? to SOZ of the telephones.
the economic benefits achieved may be seen in the collection (in mil-
lions of Colombian pesos) of the following amounts: 1980/8.2, 1981/
8.1, 1982/12.8, 1983/49.1, 1984/67.0, 1985/78.9.
The creation of the Public Telephone Division and the assignment of
human resources to that unit has made possible monitoring of coin-
operated phones, relocating them when necessary, and defining preven-
tive and corrective maintenance procedures--all resultirg in their
increased use.
With the purchase of 'smart' public telephones, EPM took an important
step in offering new services, which now permit long distance and
international calls from public telephones.
Planning ahead, EPH is experimenting with public telephones which use
magnetic cards instead of coins. This would reduce one of the main
reasons for their faulty functioning--coins getting stuck.
(b)      Subscribers:  Subecriber carrier equipment, purchased for the first
time by EPM, allows simultaneous transmissions on the same pair of
cables, while ensuring complete privacy for two telephone conversa-
tions. They are used in these following circumstances: (i) the
subscriber's telephone network is congested, and the alternative-
-installation of a new cable--is more expensive; (ii) the service
requirement is temporary, e.g., to cover special events; (iii) the
telephone demand in a specific sector is such that investment in a new
network is not justified. The carriers are used until growth in that
sector requires the massive expansion of the subscribers' network.
In most instances, the subscriber carrier is used temporarily, permit-
ting prompt telephone service; even though it delays the installation
of new cables, new subscribers still receive service. The principal
advantages of their use include: quick and simple installation; low
installation cost; decrease in manhours required for instaliation and
maintenance; avoids idleness of the equipment in exchanges with lines
available; allows preferred, prompt service to Government, business, or
industrial subscribers where the network cannot be installed within the
estimated time; they are completely reusable; in rural networks, where
networks and demand is relatively low, they are used on a permanent
basis.
(c)      Humidity-Resistant Cables:  The traditional lead-covered cable for the
expansion of telephone networks was replaced by a cable coated with
humidity-resistant aluminum and polyethelyne. Its advantages include:
(i) greater flexibility and light weight, resulting in greater laying
of cable per day per team; (ii) maximum filling of the telephone ducts,
going from 1,800 pairs in the lead-covered cable to 2,400 pairs in the
new cable, with 0.4 diameter conductors; (iii) lighter weight of the
new cable allows for winding longer lengths on spools, concomittantly



- 15 -
decreasing storage and transportation costs, as the weight decrease is
about 43?; (iv) decrease in the number of joints by about 70t, as com-
pared to lead-covered cables; this results in technical and economic
benefits and better quality of service, while decreasing the network's
fault points; (v) increased capacity in the secondary aerial network,
from 300 to 400 pairs. using the same infrastructure; (vi) the insulat-
ing qualities of polyethylene, which give the cable higher dielectric
rigidity, making it more resistant to transitory changes in high
voltages. Another advantage is that it greatly reduces the number of
faults due to electrical phenomena; the results obtained in the past
three years in the maintenance of the system justify its use. The use
of this new technology required greater training of personnel; this
expense was not significant when compared to the economic benefits
derived by its implementation.
(d)      Other Areas.  Fault control:  The number of faults decreased as a
result of the creation of the Department for Telephone Repairs and the
Department for the Preventive Haintenance of Telephone Networks
(DPMTN). The DPMTN established two plans: (i) the purchase of pressu-
rization equipment, thus bringing all trunk and primary cables of the
system under the preventive protection of dry air. In addition, new
monitoring equipment was purchased, allowing for daily detection of
faults as they appear on the cable and their repair before a major
fault occurs; and (ii) all sections of the lead-covered cable which
appeared to be in disrepair were replaced.  rTese measures, together
with training courses, have contributed to a significant reduction in
the faults in trunk and primary networks, and have allowed for greater
effectiveness in repairing the number and duration of faults, even
though the goals set forth in the initial appraisal were not achieved.



- 16 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Financial Results (Estimated and Actual)
5.01     Accounting.  Accounting in RPM was to be done separately by each utili-
ty: water and sewerage, energy, and telephones. The consolidated financial
position of EPM and of each of its utilities was reviewed and found satisfac-
tory. The telephone company shows no great change in its financial position
since the time of the Project's appraisal to date.
5.0      Financial Plan.   The financial plan estimated for the Project's
financing may be summarized as follows:
(a)      The US$110 million equivalent of Project investment include US$67.7
million in direct foreign costs, of which US$44 million would be
financed by the Bank's loan. The external component would also be
financed by other external credits (US$21.2 million), and a small share
by EPM's internal resources (US$2.5 million). An additional US$50.7
million for other non-project investments would be financed from
internal and external sources. Internal cash generation was to
contribute about 45? of the funds required for the total investment
program; and
(b)      Financial execution was similar to the original estimate regarding the
Bank's participation (US$44 million), supplier's credits, and commer-
cial bank loans. Contrary to what had been anticipated, no domestic
credits were contracted for financing the non-project investments, due
to restrictive Government policies. The actual internal generation
amounted to 482 of the funds required for the investment program.
5.03     Financial Proiections:  The projected financial situation for 1980-85,
and their comparison with actual data were based on the following considerations
(the year of the program's completion, 1985, is included; in the initial
appraisal, its termination was foreseen for 1984):
(a)      Operational Status.  Revenues by Service:  Number of subscribers is
equal to the figures in Annex 4 (Telephone Connections). An average
increase of 102 annually in new subscribers was estimated. By 1985,
the actual increase was between 7Z and 8Z. Generally, actual revenues
were very similar to estimated ones. Contrary to what had been
expected, there was no increase in average local pulses per subscriber
during the Project's duration. The telephone company's income from the
international and domebtic telephone service with Telecom and EDA was
less than had been anticipated. This is due to the difficulty in
forecasting future needs. The reverse was observed in the income from
the telephone directory, where revenues were significantly higher than
estimated.
(b)      Costs. Operation, and Management:  From the base fIgures for 1979,
yearly increases equal to internal inflation were estimated. plus 6
points due to the growth of EPM. At Project termination, the actual
figures were much higher, due principally to higher than anticipated
local inflation.



- 17 -
De2reciation: Estimated depreciation was higher than the actual
figures for 1982 and 1983, due to the delay in the commencement of
certain works.
Municipal Taxess Represent 3.42Z of total revenues, excluding revenues
recovered from certain works.
Interest Payments: because of delays in some of the works financed,
interest payments were lower than estimated during the first years of
the Project.
(c)      Sources and Uses of Funds:  Estimated investments took into account the
physical programming for 1980-84. The experience of other companies
operating in Colombia was also taken into account in EPM's purchase of
similar equipment. For different reasons, noted elsewhere in this
report, project implementation was delayed. Investments during
1980-85, including "non-project,* totalled Col$11,062 million, i.e.,
Col$1.120 million more than estimated in the original appraisal.
Debt Servicing: Favorable conditions in the grace periods for amortiz-
ing external loans decreased the debt service obligations of the
Telephone Company. Loans from commercial banks and suppliers, such as
the Royal Bank of Canada and L.M. Ericsson, respectively, which were
expected .o have two years' grace period, were actually obtained with a
four-year grace period.
Project's Economic Rate of Return
5.04     The internal rate of return (IRR) is defined as the interest rate, for
which the sum of the present value of costs and of benefits attributable to the
Project are zero. To calculate the IRR of the Fifth Telecommunications Project,
a useful life of 30 years was assumed; investment costs and revenues were taken
into account, as follows:
(a)      Costs included:  (i) yearly capital investments in the internal and
external plant related to the Project, essential to expand the network
and to equip the central exchange services available to new sub-
scribers--project investments were made at different times between 1979
and 1986; (ii) operation and management costs, excluding depreciation
and interest payments attributable to the new lines which are put into
service annually and which are part of the program:  i.e., O&M costs
are proportionally broken down according to the commencement of opera-
tion of the Project's lines.  These costs are incurred during the use-
ful life.  The investment and O&M costs are given in 1980 market
prices.  To do this, it was necessary to deflate the local share
according to the average rate of inflation established by the DANE, and
the external share according to the average rate of inflation in the
U.S. An average rate of exchange of Col$47.10/USS1.00, the going rate
in 1980, was used to convert foreign currency to pesos.
(b)      The Project's income is the result of what is collected as a fixed
charge, the impulse and connection deposit. To determine the income,
the average yearly tariffs were taken into account and converted to
constant 1980 prices.



- 18 -
5.05     The internal rate of return obtained by taking into account the Fifth
Telecommunications Project's income and expenses is as follows: 3.462--a figure
very similar to that which would be arrived at if the same methodology were
applied to the projected values (3.992). The internal rate of return, estimated
at 162 by the Banks's appraisal mission, shows high yearly profits based on
higher income and lower costs. It had been assumed that the 121,600 telephone
lines would be in operation by the end of 1983--i.e., 33Z of EPH's total network
(121,600/371.600)--and that in 1984 they would generate 712 (1,100/1,549) of all
income, but would account for only 20? (74/400) of the operational and
administrative costs.
Rate of Profit
5.06     Between 1980-1984, EPH achieved a higher rate of return over the re-
valued fixed assets than the 91 covenanted. The methodology used in revaluing
assets took into account the use of revaluation indexes which combined the
effects of internal and external inflation, the devaluation of the Colombian
peso vis-a-vis the dollar, and decreases in costs resulting from development of
new technolegies and economies of scale. In general, the operational income was
s'.milar to that estimated; on the other hand, operational costs were higher than
estimated, as a result of a high local inflation rate. The profit rates agreed
to were achieved by the Telephone Company, as a result of lower net revalued
assets.



- 19 _
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Contractins and Trainina of Personnel
6.01     For the development of the 127,400 telephone lines, EPM purchased
humidity-resistant cables withi polyethylene-coated paper insulation. Picabond
connectors and plastic handles were purchased for jointing material.
6 .02    Since the contractors were unfamiliar with this technology, a training
program vas established, with the following componentst
(a)      Training aimed at the managers, engineers, and technicians of the
contracting firms which were involved in drafting the bid proposals.
Attendance at these training sessions was a prerequisite to participat-
ing in the bids published by EPM. Managers, engineers, and technicians
from 38 firms took part in these training courses; and
(b)      Training was aimed at staff responsible for assembling joints, includ-
ing joint and subscriber line installers. Detailed theoretical and
.                  practical training was given to all operators, regarding the procedures
they were to undertake in their respective fields in order to put into
service a network based on this system.
6.03     Benefits resulting from the training program includeds  (i) more eco-
nomically precise bid proposals by the contractors, by virtue of knowing the
work to be done; (ii) avoidance of wasted materials and improvised solutions;
(iii) longer useful life and lower maintenance costs, since the work was proper-
ly carried out; (iv) many of the persons who worked with the contractors were
subsequently hired by EPM, resulting in savings of time/training: and (v) timely
completion of the works/Project, utilizing installed equipment, thereby avoiding
equipment idleness /non-productivity.
Institutional Results
6.04     EPM was created in 1955, to provide electricity, sewerage, water and
telephone services.  Prior to 1955, these services were administered directly by
the Municipal authorities of Medellin.
6.05     EPM owns and controls its own resources, and mist invest its profits
for the expansion and improvement of the services which it provides. Each
utility uses its own resources. Therefore, each administrative and service unit
of EPM has complete economic autonomy.
6.06     Based upon the Bank's recommendations, included in Chapter V, 5.03 of
Report No. 2795-CO for this Loan, the Telephone Company was reorganized accord-
ing to the Board of Directors' Decision No. 996, October 20, 1981. The basic
objective of this reform was to centralize the management structure of the
Telephone Company, by creatirg a manager exclusively in charge of the Telephone
Company and responsible for the technical and operational divisions, as well as
the switching department.
6.07     Subsequently, on May 24, 1983, the Board of Directors authorized the
administration to reorganize the operational system of the Telephone Company, in



- 20 -
order to improve the users' quality of services. This is shown in Annez 18 (not
attached). The former Department for Telephone Network Maintenance was divided
into the Department of Preventive Maintenance of the Telephone Network, in
charge of the maintenance and pressurization of the network, and the Department
of Repairs, which is in charge of the system's corrective maintenance. With the
establishment of the Section for Telephone Requests and with the help of a
computer network, it was possible to assign numbers to new subscribers more
quickly and to process work orders more speedily.
6.08     S?ecialized staff increased the efficiency of the operations and main-
tenance of EPM's new equipment. It was also decided to establish a Section for
Special Equipment for the management of fault-finding equipment and telephone
repair laboratories.  A new administrative unit for service complaints and
checks, the Section for Damage Reception, was also established. Staff knowl-
edgeable in jointing was added to the Laboratory Division; this led to the
establishment of the Division for Installations and Changes, which installs and
delivers new service networks.
6.09     The employees of the Empresa de Teldfonos increased from 940 in 1980 to
1260 in 1985. The Training and Development Department, which is part of the
Industrial Relations Division, has furthered its training programs for EPM
staff. The Proiiect's administration and supervision were done directly by the
regular management units of the Telephone Company.



- 21 -
VII. ROLE OF THE IBRD
7.01     The Bank's assistance in the Fifth Telecommunications Project was
satisfatory to EPM from a technical, economic, and organizational perspective,
contributing substantially to the Project's success. The IBRD's Telecommunica-
tions, Electronics, and New Technology Department provided the Project's super-
vision. The Bank was kept apprised at all times of the Project's development,
through correspondence with the technical and financial sections of EPM,
quarterly reports, a-nual reports by external auditors, and the yearly Bank
supervision missions to Medellin.
7.02     No problems occurred in the disbursement of this Loan, since EPM com-
plied with the covenants in the Loan Agreement. The suppliers and contractors
were paid promptly by a direct payment system.
7.09     The value of the debt owed to IBRD and the corresponding interests
showed and will continue to show variations, to the extent that the different
currencies' exchange rate fluctuate vis-a-vis the dollar. This is due to the
freedom the Bank has in establishing the currency basket.



- 22 -
VIII. CONCLUSION
8.01     The achievements of the Project surpassed most of the original goals;
nevertheless, there was a delay of approximately one year in the program's
implementation.
8.02     The actual foreign costs were higher by about 71 than originally
estimated (72.8/67.7), primarily because more equipment was purchased than had
been budgetted in the initial appraisal. The actual local costs were higher by
32 in terms of Colombian pesos: Col$2,511.9 million estimated versus
Col$2,584.5 actual. However, in terms of dollars (US$42.3 million estimated
versus US$31.1 million actual), the decrease of 27Z was due to the greater than
anticipated devaluation of th- Colombian peso in relation to the U.S. dollar.
8.03     Governmental policies to correct the exchange between the Colombian
peso and the U.S. dollar resulted in a higher devaluation than had been
estimated.
8.04     The Bank's supervision and inspection during project implementation
were helpful in improving efficiency during the construction pe,iod.
8.05     The Loan's financial conditions with regard to installments, grace
periods, amortization, and interest rates, have been the most favorable granted
to Empresa de Teiefonos to date.
8.06     The technology incorporated into the EPH system through project imple-
mentation will benefit not only the users, but will also improve the quality of
the telephone network's operation.
8.07     EPH proved its technical, managerial, and financial ability to carry
out the Fifth Telecommunications Project, supported by the continuity of its
personnel during the implementation period.



BASIC INFORMATION
1979          1980           1981           1982           1981           1984           1985
A. O4ber of llrban Telephone
Fuchanges                                                                                                                    2
1.  liedellin                      20             20             20             20             20             20             20
2.  Other locations                 9              9              9              9              9              9              9
Total                              29             29             29             29             29             29             29
P. Total Installed Capacity
1.  Medellin                   I"2 00         203200         232200         243200         248200        342200         343000
?. Other If"actions             50800          50800          55400          60400          69400          76400         83000
Total                          250000         254000         287600         303600         317600         418600        426000
C. Number of Subscribers**
1.  Hedellin                   172351         179526         188323         204063         210479         233706         259453
2.  ohther locations            44979          46309          47610          52675          60816          62310          72097
Total                          217330         225835         235933         256738         271295         296016         331550
0. Nbuber of Public Telephones
1.  Nedellin                      2670          2443           2436           2567           3088           3248           3659
2.  Other locations               680            641            6)6            688            928           1114           1291
Total                             3350           3084          3112           3255           4016           4362           4950
C. Total Number of Impulses
(Thousands) Per Annum
between 1979 and 1984
1.  Ilcal (1)                  1174.6         1226.2           1293         1324.1         1425.4         1484.2         1808.4
2.  Nationwide                 1171.4         1283.3         1231.3         1470.5         1807.5         1533.1          322.8
F. Average Annual Revenue Per
User between 1979 and 1984        2778          4555           5734           6289           i128           9171          11606
(Actual)
t. Average Annual Revenue Per
loser (Col.$) between 1979 and   2713            4071           5290           6181           7239          8125          -----
1984 (Appraisal)
(I)  In projecting the local impulses the number of lines in operation was taken as a base at the end of each year.
*  Calculated as operating Income over number of users.
** includes public and special services telephones.



PERWORNANCE INDICATORS
YEAR ENDED ON DECDIE1 31                 1980                1981                 1982                1983                 1984                1985
11/       22/       1         2         1          2         1         2         1          2         1         2
a. Line Capacity                 266,000   254,000   292,600   287,600   332.600   303,600   371,600   317,600   407,000  418,600    -            426.000
b. Telephone Connections         224,300   225,835   238,700   235,933   262,200   256,738   292,000   271,295   326,000   296,016    -           331,550
c. No. of Employees                  1013       940      1126       949       1277      10o8      1416      1158       1529      1249    -           1260
d. Rate of Return (%) on
Revalued Aesets                   10         22.6      12        33        10         31.9       9        22         9         18.2  -             12.6
e. Operations Ratio*                  59         52        52        55        55         58        52        72        54         f-   -              56
f.  Debt Service Coverage               3.1       4.4       4.3       7.1       3.3        7.2       4         5.6       2.1        2.9  -              2
o. Currept Ratio                        1.1       2.2       1         2.7        1.2       3         0.8       1.8        1.2       1.8                 1.8
h. Accounts Receivable (days)         60         76        60        71        60         74        60        55        60         43                  19
i. Yearly Paults Per 100
Connections                       75         61        70        70        65        70         60        69        55        71    -              64
J. Duration of Fault (percent)  :
1. Less than 24 hours            38        38         40        28        48        23         55        30        60        28    -              30
2. Less than 48 hours            70        70         72        58        74        54         76        64        80        65    -              71
3. Less than 72 hours            80        80         85        70        90        66         95        76       100        78                   85
4. Nore than 72 hours           100        100       100       100       100        100       100       100       -         100                  100
1/ Accordinlg to Initial Project Appraisal
I/Actual
Percent of operational costs/incom.
Does not include public telephone faults.                                                                                                                           H



EPSIMATED YVESU9 ACTUAL CO8TS
Col. Nillion- USS Killions
Local         Folrign          Total     Difference           Local        Foreign        Total   Difreeence
Description       E        A      E       A        E      A      A-S     %        E     A      E     A       E      A    A-E    ,
Telophona Lines    789.1   978.0 2,102.9 3,367.0 2,892.0 4,345.0 1,453.0 150       12.8  13.0   36.8  44.4   49.6   57.4   7.8  116
Cablua            1,151.3   934.5  896.1  1,260.0 2,047.4 2,194.5   147.1 107      19.6  10.9   16.6  16.2   36.2   27.1  -9.1   75
Subscriber Plant   147.1   252.3   304.3  746.1   451.4   9984   547.0 221         2.3   2.5    5.4   7.8    7.7   10.3   2.6  134
Public Teleponea    20.7    61.3   107.7   544.1   128.4   605.4   477.0 471       0.3   0.5    2.1   4.0    2.4    3.5   1.1  146
Buildings          118.2   358.4    0.0    28.9   118.2   387.3   269.1 328        2.3   4.2    0-0   0-4      2.3    4.6   2.3  200
Fnright and
I   ance           285.5     0.0   390.8    0.0   676.3    0.0  -676.3  0          5.0   0.0    6.8   0.0    11.8    0.0 -11.8   0
Project Coat     2,511.9 2,584.5 3,801.8 5,946.1  6,313.7 8,530.6 2,216.9 135     42.3  31.1   67.7  72.8   110.0  102.9  -7.1   94
1I
xD
XJ



_ 26 _
Annex 9
COMPARISON ECONOMIC INDICATORS*
External          Internal       Rate of Exchange
Inflation         Inflation     Col.$/US$ 1.00 Avg. Devaluation
Year      B       A        E         A          E         A       B      A
1980    9.00   12.40     22.50     26.50     45.44      47.46      -      -
1981    8.00    8.90     18.00     26.30     49.99      55.00     10     16
1982    7.00    4.90     15.00     23.90     55.98      64.68     12     18
1983    7.00    3.20     15.00     16.60     62.70      79.53     12     23
1984    7.00    4.20     15.00     18.30     68.35    101.33       9     27
Relation between average rates of exchange.
E: Estimated
A: Actual



- 27 -
Annex 10
ALLOCATION OF IBRD LOAN 1825-CO
(US$ Thousands)
Appraisal                  Difference
Category        Description             Estimate       Actual          %
I         Telephone Lines             18,700        29,832         160
II         Cubles                      13,300         7,891          39
III         Subscriber Plants            3,400         3,624         107
IV         Public Telephones            1,900         2,653         140
V         Unallocated                  6,700          ---          100
TOTAL            44,00C         44,000         -



- 28 -
Aames 11
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Initial       Actual           Difference
Semester     Ending             Estimate   Disbursement         US$       %
II      June 30, 1980           ---           -__                0     100
IV      December 31, 1980      3,170          ---            3,170     100
II      June 30, 1981         10,970          ---           10,970     100
IV      December 31, 1981    18,970           ___           18,970     100
II      June 30, 1982         24,970          1,524         23,446    93.9
IV      December 31, 1982    32,070           6,831         25,239    78.7
II      June 30, 1983         36,770         18,074         18,696    50.8
IV      December 31,1983      40,770         29,498         11,272    27.6
II      June 30, 1984         41,970         33,765          8,205    19.5
IV      December 31, 1984    43,566          37,617          5,949    13.7
II      June 30, 1985         44,000         40,004          3,996     9.1
IV      December 31, 1985    44,000          41,893          2,107     4.8
I      March 31, '986        44,000         44,000              0     0.0
II      June 30, 1986         44,000         44,000              0     0.0



- 29 -
Annex 12
CALLS WADE AND ANSWERED
(In Percentages)
Category                   1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Calls answered                     48.1     51.2      55.3     55.0     58.3
Wrong calls                         2.1       2.2      2.6      2.5       2.7
Calls not answered                  9.8     10.1       9.1      8.7       9.5
Calls to busy lines
(or busy signals)                  20.0     17.2      16.0     15.6     14.4
Subscriber's misuse*               14.2     14.7      14.1     15.9      13.5
Technical faults                    5.8      4.6       2.9      2.3       1.6
TOTAL CALLS MADE             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
* Includes incomplete dialing, hanging up on dial tone, or delay in
dialing.



OPERMAINS STATUS
(Mlions of Col Pesos)
19_              1981              1q82              1983 A            1984             195A
OPERATIONS INODSE
TE     I HNE
Insta1iations              15.55     18.39    23.18     o.o0  . 33.60   o.00     40.64    0.00    46.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Fixed ChargQ              209.87    243.47   246.eg   273.50  264.71   299.39    296.61  336.00   331.00   452.00    o.o0   836.0o
use                       454.78    52o.8g   669.01   718.98  844.79   796.96    964.44  789.00  1117.00  1121.00D    .00  1975.00
Participats (Telecom, Bda)  194.23    187.99   277.9?   201.78  424.79   316.25    559.30  443.00   643.0o   603.00  0.00   745.00
Telephne )irectory         38.80     57.86    45.80   158.66   52.70   202.00    60.60  366.00    70.00   539.0o     o.Lo   292.00
&Sb-Total                 913.23   1028.60  1262.80  1352.92 1620.59  1614.60   1921.59 1934.00  2207.00  2715.0O    o.00  3848.00
fture Tariff Inereases      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    192.16    o.o0   441.00    o.o0     0.00     0.00
TOTAL OPERATIONS INCONS   913.23   1028.60  1262.80  1352.92 1620.59  1614.60   2113.75 1934.00  2648.00  2715.00    0.00  3848.00
OPERATIONS ErPNDI'RNS
Opertions Costs           229.55    258.55   284.64   384.15  344.42   504.30    416.74  722.00   504.00   91.4.00   o.0o  1ZS4.00
Administration            144.04    185.67   171.24   236.97  200.45   382.10    241.84  438.00   292.00   459.0O    o.o0   596.CO
Paymts to luniLpality      31.23     39.35    43.19    55.08   55.42    67.53    72.29   78.00    90.00   108.00     0.00   156.00
Depreciation              133.02    127.78   150.90   155.98  288.60   181.53    426.25  344.00   596.00   606.00    o.o0   656.00
TOTAL RPNDITiURES         537.e4    611.35   649.97   832.18  s88.89  1135.46   1157.12 1582.00  1482.00  2087.00    0.00  2642.0O
xet Operational Income    375.39    417.25   612.83   520.74  731.70   479.14    956.63  352.00  1166.00   628.00    0.00  1206.0O
Plus: Other Income         19.34    118.07    23.20   254.41   27.84   367.39    33.40  391.00    40.00   654.00     0.00   873.00
1mns: Interest             42.50     29.41    83.37    51.50  104.80    50.63    95.17   76.00   279.00   357.00     o.o0   776.00
l UTILIY                  352.23    505.91   552.66   723.65  654.74   795.90    894.86  667.00   927.00   925.00    0.0f  1303.00
oPRATrow   %               5.B89     59.44    51.47    61.51   54.85    70.32     54.74   81 .8D    55.97    76.87   o.0o    68.66
0



-31 -
Annex 15
.U3L  seL~  SH1EES'
(qttl1o   ft 2o1 P.ua)
da~LIU1o4    -C1~L                       I~ 982             I191 t1                                l
Vtt  cil   btL"td    cewl   4ttd.    Actcusl   CiteMd    Act1aI  Estiined    Actual  mt44            Ae"ua
RXEt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tetZd
Lfl apertifo          2089.66  2,112.47  4.140.93  2,597.60  5.9tS.5S  4.507104  6,351.41  S,07S.O  '0.77'.00  t0.627.0r  ).OD     . .Ot
qavaticon adjustment     267.00    263.36    278.53    23.7S   439.20    351.39    545.3?    443.00  t,4E2. t       92.00 .  O.X S.X0D
3qbCat 1               2.356.68  2,375.85  4.ot9.46  2,973.3E  S,355.7'   4,358.93  9.996.7f  6,521.0D  '2.256.00  l.W609.00  0.ao   '3,953.00
cJulativ dopmcutton    712.14    701.35    S52.73   S34.52  1,130.66   1.19.S5  1,540.67   1,343.00  2t13.00  1.925.00  O.00    2,422.00
RM 'luattoan AdJuntIMt    52.02     50.16      2.33     40.23     73.00     69.77     S9.24      34.00    113.00    109.00  0.00      271.00
SubtOtal                 '44.16    752.21     11-.06    96.55   '.203.66  1.09.62  t,629.91  1,427.0   2.226.00  2,032.00  O.00    2,693-0o
Op.cttiot not fixe4
*     asetcs                1U592.52  I.23.64  3.504.40  1,964.93  5,132.12  3,769.31  7,366.82  5.094.00 10.052.00  9.57.00  0.00   16,260.00
Wor*k AA p   t6ea       t.324.02    946.18  1,151.01   1,294.87  1,467.73  1.455.00  t,594.74  4,180.0o  i151.00   t,131.00  0.00     4e600
ROV41%otlon adjustmente     .43      0.00    165.16      10.10    289.4e    179.0D    464.61    812.00     54.00  I,a29%    0.00      410.CO
*    Subtotal               1,362.45    946.16  1,316.19  1t304.97  1,757.21  I.63.0  2,059.55  4,992.00  1,205.00  2,590.00  0.00         856O0
T0TAL WMPMMM AM?9   2,954-97   2569.2   4820.59  3,269.80   6.909."   5,403.31  9.426.37 10,06.00 1tt,237.00  12,67.00  0.00   t7,11SO
*CURM ASS
(CAet On hlWd             64.08      4.22     9f.25     12.47    148.S      23.54    141.67      16.0     162.00    76.00  0.00       202.00
Subseribert' &Ceomtt;
eneiweble              152.20    214.91    210.47    262.52    2T70.10    25.74    352.29    2St.00    441.00    301.00   .00       159.00
Inventory                 77.89    189.11    124.62    196.35    226.30    302.70    235.36    560.0D    430.00    667.00  0.00       6700
Other                     50.00    5013.0     55.00    949.22     60.50  t.728.52     66.55  1,036.00     73.00  I,879.00  0.00   31,4M.0
TOTAL C_R1   IS          344.17    911.32    488.34  1,420.56    705.7S   2,300.50    845A.7   1.8n.00  1,106.00  2.925.00  0.00    4.514.00
Other amts                 3.30     19.36      3.60     27.57       3.99     38.50     4.39      59.00      5.00     97.00  0.00      159.CO
--r7L ASSR11            3,502.44  3,500.50  5,312.53  4,717.93  7.619.10  7,822.31  10o,2.63 12.04QOD  12,348.00  MIV9.0D  0.00   21.771.00
ltAUI1LtX
QAplta1                   23.50     79.44     23.50    120.68      23.50    216.16     23.50    10.00      24.OD    445.0D   O OD     TM0D
Retained bRnA           1,262.3   1,427.41  1.814.99  2,077.12  2,469.73  2.r4.60  3,363.99  3.54C3.0   4,291-00  4,579.00  0.00    5,675.0
tOTAL alutsr            1,2.85   1,506.87  1i,88.49  2,t97-.   2,43.23  3,090.76  3,37.49  3,8470   4,315.00  5,024.00  0            6,79.0
tang.tes debts          1,060.13    801.O   2,254.75    89A.6   3.524.97  2,376.38  4,861.14  5.251.00  5,413.00  6.632.00  040   10t ,00
I inuu: current          153.15     64.39    319.75    129.60    371.98    207.64    841.03    3".0       750.00    8620   0.00    1,327.00
jobutiaa
TOTAL tR0-D  DoIS        906.98    717-45  1,935.00    769.21  3,152.99  2,16674  3.975-l1  4.862.    4,663.00  S,770.00  0.00    9,061.00
Current LabiUtei         167.58    366    14.34    W7.00    202.77    524.27    223.05    5S5.00    245.00    696.0   0.00    1,040.00
Plus: curt lorw
te debts               15.1S       4.39    319.75    129.60    371.98    207.64    841.03    3694.0    750.00    862.00  0.00    1,327.00
'     TIYIAL 01TOA 331 tUM=r=    320.73    413-05    504.0    516.60    574.M5   731.91  1,064-08    9?4.00    9s5o0   1,.0o0  O.00    2,367.00
OMMR LIASI7IU
ibeartber deposits       495.3     576.14    671.94    745a.      959.45  1,081.04  1,319.05  1,33.00  1,"6.00  1,836.00  0.00        ,684..00
Retirement penais        19.51    215.61    246.31    389.39    299.71    567.80    363.01    769.00    438.00    673.00  0.00       6O7.00
Co*osoLated save-   pay  52.09      62.78     65.69     99.07     81.89    18.96    1ot.09    257.00    124.00    313.00  0.00        337.o0
Other                     43.92      9.00     50.5,      0.00      58.0a     o.0o     66.80       3.O0     77.00     11t.00  o.co       3.00
7t27L OtlER LLAULE    788.90    363.53   1014.95   1234.32  1398.13  183.90  1,849-95  2,356.00  2,375.00  2.835.    0.00    3,964.00
0TOAL LIAILItI          3,302.44  3,500.90  5,312.53  4,r17.93  7,619.10  7,S22.31  10.276.63 12,08.00 1234,500 15",19.00  0.00   21,771.oo
CURR1T RATIO               1.1       2.2       1         2.7        1.2       3-3       0.8       1.9       1.1       1.9   0           1.91
Debequity -atio           41/59     32/66     51/49     26/74      56/44     0         54/46     56/i      52/48     53/47  0          59,,41
S4bscriber accnoute
Mresiebl (da             60        76        60         7i        60       71         s0        53         60      40    0             15



- 32 -                              Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN 1825-CO
Comments from the Borrower
"Vie would like to note the following observations to the subject project,
in its Spanish version, forwarded with your letter No. 0161812 of May 10,
1988:
Page i. Preface
It should be clarified that Ln. 1825-CO for US$44 million was lent to the
Public Enterprises of Medellin and not to the Government of the Republic of
Colombia.
Page ii. Basic Information Table
Under Exchange Rates Over-Project-Period, substitute 56.49 for 54.49.
Under 1984, the exchange rate was 101.33 instead of 101.53. The exchange
rates at year end consist of average exchange rates, as can be seen from
Annex 9 of our Report.
Page iii
The Loan Agreement date: please substitute 19 for December 18, 1980.
Page iv, number 3(a)
The subscribers increased by 522 instead of 47?.
Page 5, number 2.03(b)
Substitute 1967 for 1962.
Page 10. number 3.09(a)
Substitute 600 for 500.
Page 14, number 4.02(a)
Substitute Annex 12 for Annex 23
Annexes of Engllsh Version
Page 24. Annex 4
At letter (b) under 1985, substitute 331,550 for 331,500.



-33 -                              Annex 18
Page 2 of 2
At letter (j)(1) under 1983, substitute 55 for 5.
Page 27. Annex 10
Under the column "Differences' in the Total line, substitute 000 for 100.
Page 30. Annex 13
Under 1983(A), substitvte 0.00 for 40.00.'



(\4JH \-r                                                                              /                                                  r 
DON MATIAS         r-                                                            EDLI
SAN PEDOO                                                                                                    COLOMBIA
S AN           P EDRO                                          B          P  ~A                       /e8g
B  E   L  L  0
60 l   V    '        COPACAA                                                                COLOMBIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
N  Soo>}5lt 7 ;X                  f}  XLOCAL AUTOMATIC EXCHANGE NETWORK
<  3.0SO /2  IN   <                     \                     f                                   ~~~~~~~Medellin
365il_.l t go \ ~~~~~GUARNE
I 4000(C0n)SM goOluN             O OM e5UE 6000 -om            G  U  AR N  E             %
|CtX (4 OCO( Zwa OrtA$A           IA HERMOSA4.OO)oot Z.000 Z                      9
100013000) 9,000SAN JAViBR0O         A0_400
5,000(2.0001 IXO0O SAN  UARO)29
aSAN@0i;lO DE                                ,IodoA R I N                                         I l L A
YWITAG1/cK\)j((IRENLLA                                                                                          J
'AA         C   A \ L        D  A       EDL   RETIRO
57 RE L       AN5                                                                                EL     CA      
~   ,  J        \                        J         >     (                    \           D E    V I B O E G R               \
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I /\At \,,,1N
.1  ~~~~~~~                            DEVHW
.,,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L    C  A R\  '
sooo  Proposed Protect Local Exchange
Kew00  Under Installation Local Exchange (EP.M. Finonced)    "              (j7  '
4000O  Existing Local Exchange                                                                                                                                     \
L Locol / Tandem Exchange                                           e
m    Notional Exchange
Built -up Areos                   -                                                                            l
Main Roads                                                                                                     .
Secondary Roads                                                                                                \ 5                              .                  ..
-  -  Municipol 8aundaries                                           o                        10           I; KiInei    \/
Rivers                                                                                                                                  / .
of Se, node. otrdnexrr /o wsiiid, ii,. olixAxA 101. d.vxvili.xx,. i.d.,d                                      -
in, A_e .   \S/Al Of,                                                                                  _ i,y'n',.xn.



