Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2683-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 10, 1980
This doment hus a reticted dIutrisibudon nd may be used by recipients only In the perfer_mce ef
their oficil dutes. Ils cOtebts may not otherwise be disclosed without Wld flank authoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar
1979
Average Calendar Year 1978           (Estimate)
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$              Col$
US$1           = Col$39.25              42.6
Col$1         = US$0.025                 0.023
ABBREVIATIONS
EDA:       Empresas Departamentales de Antioquia
EPM:       Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICB:       International Competitive Bidding
MOC:       Ministry of Communications
NPD:       National Planning Department
NTB:       National Tariff Board
TELECOM:   Empresa Nacional de Telecommunications
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM)
Guarantor:             Republic of Colombia
Amount:                US$44.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace
at interest of 8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would be the first Bank supported
effort to strengthen a municipal telephone system in
Colombia. It is aimed at expanding and improving
service in Medellin, the second largest city, and
the surrounding area and at strengthening the Empresas
Publicas de Medellin (EPM) so that it can expand services
to other urban and rural areas in the largest department
in Colombia (Antioquia). The project comprises the
installation of (a) about 108,400 local switching equipment
lines and about 90,000 additional connections; (b)
subscribers and cable plant to enable a further 10,000
additional connections to be made; (c) 3,300 public call
office telephones which would serve largely low income
communities; and (d) buildings to house project equipment.
During project execution, EPM would carry out studies
aimed at improving the entity's organizational and
tariff structure. EPM is a competent public utility and
should be able to carry out the project on time; it has
already taken initial steps which demonstrate that the
risks of unusual delays are minimal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



tii)
Estimated Cost:                            Local        Foreign      Total
(Us$ Million Equivalent)
Exchange equipment                     7.7          30.3        38.0
Cables                                11.3          13.6        24.9
Subscribers plant                      1.4           4.4         5.8
Public call office telephones          0.2           1.7         1.9
Buildings                              1.3            -          1.3
Freight and insurance                  3.0           5.6         8.6
Total Base Cost                     24.9          55.6        80.5
Physical contingencies                 0.9            -          0.9
Price contingencies                   16.5          12.1        28.6
Total Project Costl/          42.3          67.7        110.0
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
World Bank                                          44.0        44.0
Suppliers' Credit                                   11.5        11.5
Other Bank loans                         -           9.9         9.9
EPM                                    42.3          2.3        44.6
Total                          42.3         67.7        110.0
Estimated             Bank Fiscal Year    1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Disbursements:                               (Us$ Million Equivalent)
Annual          11.0   14.0  11.8  5.2   2.0
Cumulative      11.0   25.0  36.8 42.0  44.0
Rate of Return:         16.8%
Appraisal Report:       No. 2795-CO, dated March 7, 1980.
1/   EPM is exempt from custom duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$44 million to help finance a Fifth Tele-
communications Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I. THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. A small updating mission visited Colombia
in mid-December and this section on the economy reflects its major findings.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Colombia has made substantial progress over the past two decades in
the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy scattered
among several isolated, but largely self-contained, regions to a more inte-
grated, urban industrial economy. The productive base of the economy has been
widened and diversified, and a modern sector relying heavily on imported
inputs has developed. The country's external sector has been strengthened by
the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Fluctuations in domestic economic
conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while
still considerable, have become more manageable.
4.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and high unemploy-
ment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change in devel-
opment policy, shifting emphasis from a protectionist policy of import substi-
tution to measures designed to expand and diversify exports. With only minor
modifications, this export promotion strategy remained in effect until the
mid-1970s. These policies were successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exhcange constraint to growth and making
possible a higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP growth
accelerated to an average 6.5% p.a. between 1968 and 1974, well above the
historic average, and non-coffee merchandise exports rose nearly threefold.
5.        Despite these advances, the economy showed signs of deteriorating
by late 1974. This was largely the result of slower growth in the industrial
economies, an inelastic tax system and imported inflation which led to a
weakening of the public finances and balance of payments and an acceleration
1/   This section is unchanged from that included in the President's Report
for Bogota Power Distribution Project (Report No. 2676-CO).



in domestic inflation. In addition, the country was faced with a pending loss
of self-sufficiency in petroleum, its primary energy source. These develop-
ments prompted the authorities to introduce a stabilization program, accom-
panied by basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary and trade systems aimed at
restoring the basis for accelerated long-term growth. Concurrently, petroleum
pricing policy was modified to improve incentives for oil exploration and
development and policies were initiated to reduce the subsidy on local consump-
tion of petroleum products. These reforms were successful in improving the
public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, but initially caused economic
growth to slow (from 6.0% in 1974 to 3.8% in 1975) as the economy adjusted to
the changing domestic and international circumstances.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the three years 1976-78 the Colombian economy was subject to
severe inflationary pressures which caused the Government to focus economic
policy on short term stabilization rather than on long term development issues.
The origin of these pressures was the exceptionally high world coffee price
prevailing during this period which caused Colombia's export earnings from
coffee to increase to US$1.8 billion and US$2.1 billion in 1977 and 1978,
respectively (from an average US$725 million in 1974-75), producing an unpre-
cedented rise in incomes and internal demand. The supply of consumer goods,
particularly of basic foodstuffs which was adversely affected by drought
conditions in most of the country, lagged behind the growth in demand and
inflation accelerated to the unprecedented rate of 44% in the twelve months
ending June 1977, from 26% the preceding year. The authorities responded
rapidly by introducing a broad range of fiscal, monetary and trade,policies
designed to gain control over the explosive increase in prices. As a conse-
quence of these measures and of a favorable second semester harvest, inflation
declined sharply throughout most of the following 18 months, with the annual
inflation rate leveling off at 29% in 1977 and falling to 18% in 1978.
7.        Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets and modest increases
in domestic investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately in 1976
and 1977, with real GDP growing by 4.6% and 4.8%, respectively, in those two
years. In 1978, however, real GDP rose by an estimated 8.5% in response to
continued strong growth in aggregate demand, supported by expanded private
investment financed increasingly through a rapidly growing extra bank market
and by favorable agricultural conditions. Since growth was concentrated in
the relatively labor intensive sectors of the economy--personal services,
trade, transport and communications, and small-scale manufacturing and agri-
culture--unemployment declined sharply during this period. In 1978, unemploy-
ment in the four major cities averaged about 8% of the labor force, compared
with an average of about 12% a few years earlier. Both the balance of payments
and the public finances generated large current surpluses in the 1976-78
period. Largely as a result of increased coffee export receipts, Colombia's
net official international reserves had risen from US$573 million at the end
of 1975 to US$2.5 billion by the end of 1978, equivalent to about nine months
imports of goods and non-factor services. This increase in reserves occurred
despite nearly 12% p.a. real growth in imports and slow growth in manufactured
exports. Curbs on public investment and higher revenues from the coffee tax
and from earnings on international reserves made possible unprecedented
overall surpluses in the public finances.



- 3 -
8.        Despite continuation of the stabilization policies in effect since
early 1977, inflationary pressures increased somewhat in 1979. A mild frost
in Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise early in the
year, resulting in an acceleration in reserve accumulation and in aggregate
demand growth. Widening interest rate differentials favoring Colombia and
real appreciation of the peso, generated short-term capital inflows, which,
together with delays in import payments, led to further reserve increases.
Receipts from illegal exports provided an additional source of funds for the
already overly liquid economy. In all, net official reserves rose by approxi-
mately US$1.6 billion for the year, reaching the equivalent of 11 months
imports at year end. About mid-year the authorities issued a new series of
short term securities carrying highly competitive interest rates in an effort
to absorb some of the excess liquidity existing in the formal and informal
credit markets. This issue, which represents a significant break with past
open market operations that were not interest-competitive and forced onto
financial institution portfolios, was successful in attracting funds equivalent
to 5.4% of the monetary base by year end, helping to reduce money supply growth
(M2) in the formal market from 30% in 1978 to 24% in 1979. Nevertheless, large
wage increases and higher energy costs, together with rapid growth in domestic
demand, pushed inflation up to 30% for the year. Economic growth was strong
again in 1979, with real GDP rising by an estimated 5.5%, and unemployment
remained low.
Distribution and Welfare
9.        The steady gains in per capita income, together with rapid rural/
urban migration and expanded employment opportunities for women over the past
quarter century caused a dramatic drop in the crude birth rate. The achieve-
ment of lower birth rates was facilitated by expanded family planning programs.
Consequently, Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply, from over
3% in the late 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s and to an estimated
2.1% at present. Although 66% of the population lives in urban centers,
there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 persons. Some of
the major cities have serious transportation, housing and urban congestion
problems, however, and large numbers of persons live under poor conditions.
10.       Available evidence suggests that the welfare of all income groups
in Colombia has increased significantly since the 1950s and that the propor-
tion of the population living in absolute poverty has declined. These gains
were in part a consequence of reasonably good economic growth and of efforts
to raise welfare through investment in health, education, low income housing,
water and sewerage, and other social services. Existing data on income dis-
tribution trends present a less clear picture. It is probable that some
improvement occurred in income distribution between 1950 and the mid-1960s
as a result of a strong shift of the labor force from rural areas to higher
productivity jobs in urban industry and services and of relative wage gains
for urban unskilled workers. Accelerated inflation through the early and mid-
1970s caused real wages to increase less rapidly than returns to non-labor
factors of production. While the trends in income distribution during
this period are unclear, it seems unlikely that any significant improvement
occurred. Since 1977, however, rural wages have risen in real terms and



-4-
unemployment has declined notably, supporting the presumption of some
distributional improvement.
Development Strategy of the Current Administration
11.       The development strategy of the present Government is essentially
unchanged from that of the previous administration, with the most significant
variation being a greater emphasis on expanding economic and social infrastruc-
ture. The key elements of this strategy are the promotion of non-coffee
exports and investment, supported by measures to increase allocative and
productive efficiency. Factor (particularly capital) and product markets are
to be freed from unnecessary controls in order to increase efficiency and
lower costs, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports are to be reduced
to provide greater competition to domestic industry. These steps, along with
periodic exchange rate adjustments as required by relative cost differences,
tax rebates and favorable access to credit, are expected to provide the
stimulus for rapid growth in non-coffee exports and in private investment.
Public investment is to be accelerated, with particular stress on improving
and extending the transportation network and on resolving the country's rapidly
growing energy problem. Investments in transportation are expected to lower
freight costs substantially and those in telecommunications to facilitate
economic activity as well as to minimize the unnecessary use of transport;
both are aimed at integrating regional growth centers into a national market.
Complementary measures to encourage industry to locate outside the four major
metropolitan areas have been introduced.
12.       Raising investment and productivity in agriculture and industry are
important objectives of the Government's plans to expand growth and employment.
Substantial increases in credit are being provided to agriculture. Extension
programs are to be expanded to cover larger numbers of small and medium scale
farms and widened to include farm management and broader dissemination of crop
research. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition (PAN) projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive
continued high priority. Low income rural areas are to be helped through
rural electrification, health and education programs and through an expanded
feeder roads program. Industry, which is experiencing high capacity utiliza-
tion ratios because of lagging investment in recent years, is expected to
benefit from improved functioning of domestic capital markets, as controls
are eliminated from these markets, and from increased incentives for exports
as the real effective exchange rate recovers to pre-1976 levels. This, plus
increased competition from imports as tariff and non-tariff barriers are
lowered, should provide the stimulus for greater industrial investment and
bring about more rapid technological change.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit which is expected to reach significant proportions in the mid-1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. High priority is
being given to the development of additional energy resources in order to
avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would
entail. The strategy adopted is designed to reduce the country's dependence
on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes. Major projects
are being executed and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power genera-



-5-
tion, and incentives are being given to private foreign companies for accel-
erated exploration and development of the country's petroleum, coal and
natural gas potential. Exports of coal and natural gas are expected to offset
a large portion of the petroleum imports projected for the mid to late 1980s.
Higher energy prices are expected to slow the growth in energy demand. While
the total investment cost of future energy development is still being deter-
mined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment could run
as high as US$8.0 billion in 1979 prices over the next decade. Even under the
most optimistic assumptions regarding development of energy resources, however,
Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy imports until the mid-1980s
when exports of coal and natural gas begin to reduce the nation's net energy
deficit.
14.       With Colombia's long term growth prospects enhanced by the increased
availability of foreign exchange and with inflation expected to moderate, the
authorities are beginning to focus policies on a number of issues that need to
be addressed if the country is to achieve its full growth potential and poverty
is to be alleviated at a more rapid pace. These issues include the reduced
competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets brought about in recent
years by the relatively high domestic inflation uncompensated by foreign
exchange adjustments, and the slow modernization and lowered efficiency of
domestic industry resulting from low investment levels and limited foreign
competition. Public investment has not increased significantly in the past
few years and domestic resource mobilization is still insufficient, particu-
larly in comparison to the expansion required in public investment. While
income distribution and welfare trends appear favorable, substantial efforts
will have to be made to reduce the widespread poverty still existing in the
country.
15.       Economic policy is presently in a period of transition as the
authorities attempt to combine stabilization and growth measures so as to arrest
inflation while still permitting the economy to expand. Some advances have
already been made in dismantling the existing stabilization program and in bring-
ing about conditions favorable to increased investment and growth. For example,
the 100% marginal reserve requirement imposed on commercial banks has been
rescinded and the Government has taken a more active role in the capital market
through open market operations. The transition process, however, has been
moving slowly in certain respects and the Government recognizes the importance
of acting quickly in finding appropriate solutions to these potential constraints
to growth. Exchange rate adjustments are expected once again to become a tool
of development, rather than a component of stabilization policy, and further
measures to stimulate private investment and encourage technological change are
proposed. As inflationary pressures continue to recede, controls on interest
rates and credit, which have already been relaxed somewhat, are expected to be
further reduced as are tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. Such measures,
once fully effective, could be expected to produce a sizeable jump in private
investment and in economic efficiency. Delays in carrying out economic and
social infrastructure investments could adversely affect growth of the pro-
ductive sectors and reduce economic welfare. Thus public investment is to be
accelerated at the maximum consistent with continued progress toward economic
stability. The Government is particularly concerned with the slow growth of
energy sector investment (with the exception of investment in hydropower).
Although some progress has been achieved as capital outlays by foreign oil
companies have risen as a result of more profitable wellhead prices and the



- 6 -
growth in demand for petroleum products has been slowed by higher retail prices,
the Government intends to advance development of the country's other energy
resources, i.e., coal and natural gas.
16.       Since in the absence of corrective measures both the current account
of the balance of payments and public sector savings are expected to weaken
over the next few years, mobilization of domestic resources to support the
strong expansion required in public investment is likely to be a critical
issue in carrying out the Government's strategy.  The authorities are already
moving ahead on this issue, having taken measures to improve tax administration
and enforcement and to generate resources through large real increases in
charges for public services. Additional tax measures will probably be needed,
however. Capital market improvements, including realistic interest rates on
savings deposits, are expected to stimulate private savings. These efforts are
being complemented by measures to encourage the production of basic foodstuffs--
which weigh heavily in the consumer market basket--as a means of reducing infla-
tionary pressures and moderating inflationary expectations, which should have a
further favorable effect on savings.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and with continued sound
economic management, Colombia is expected to achieve annual real GDP growth
averaging about 6% during the 1980-85 period. However, because of the expected
decline in coffee prices and with accelerating oil imports and the high import
content of future investment, the current account of the balance of payments
is expected to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Colombia is
expected, therefore, to continue to be a large net importer of capital for
some time to come. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities permit a
drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months' imports
in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements are
projected at US$10 billion between 1980 and 1985, or an annual average of
about US$1.7 billion. An increasing proportion of this capital inflow is
expected to be provided by foreign commercial and financial sources.
18.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to an estimated US$4.4 billion at the end of 1978, equivalent to about 18% of
GDP, of which US$2.8 billion was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share
of this external debt was 26.5% in 1978. Because of the expected decline in
commitments from bilateral sources and corresponding recent acceleration in Bank
lending, this share is expected to exceed 30% in the early 1980s, before falling
to about 27% by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell in recent years
as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase from 10% in 1978
to about 15% in 1985. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected
to rise to 26% in 1985 from 24% in 1978. Balance of payments prospects beyond
the early 1980s will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based export-
oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the expected continuation
of sound economic and financial management and timely execution of the country's
energy program, Colombia is considered creditworthy for the required external
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 85th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,400.6 million (net of



- 7 -
cancellations). Of this amount, US$1,803.9 million is now held by the
Bank; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 49 loans and the IDA credit.
During 1972-77, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year,
they declined slightly to US$74 million in 1978 but increased sharply to
US$135 million equivalent in 1979. The improving performance of social
sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed programs, the gradual
containment of inflationary pressures which should allow for relaxation
of fiscal restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects,
all point to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.9 million in 24 enter-
prises and now holds US$16.7 million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31, 1980. The
Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing projects.
20.        In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits.
All four loans for education and training have been made during this period,
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, fifteen loans in the power and transport sectors were made, while
before 1966, 22 out of a total of 25 loans were made to these sectors.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each
for water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development,
aviation development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million
equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80
program includes already approved loans for nickel and power distribution
projects and proposed loans for power generation, small scale industry,
secondary oil recovery and exploration, vocational training and further
industrial credit. Work is also under way on projects for railways, ports,
feeder and rural roads, further mining development, agricultural credit,
power (including rural electrification), irrigation, water supply and sewerage,
agro-industries, urban development and environmental improvement, for possible
consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy, which is attuned to the requirements of the era that
began with the 1973 price rise of internationally traded petroleum. To help
Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the proposed
lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the development
of coal mines and petroleum, which hold potential in helping Colombia meet
part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. Bank involvement
in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as
some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would
finance agriculture and industry (including agro-industry) to assist the
Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment,
and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives
would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this
context, the Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder
roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country into the



-8-
modern economy. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are
aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports
and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for
expansion. Lending for telecommunication would assist the Government in its
efforts to integrate cities and towns into the national economy and reduce
the large amuunt of congestion in existing networks. Finally, a relatively
large number of loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for
urban development and slum improvement, rural electrification, agricultural
credit, land settlement, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and environ-
mental improvement projects is principally designed to improve the standard
of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in
Annex I. While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of
total external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share
has decreased since then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period and it
is expected that during the period 1979-83 this share will decline further
to about 38% of external capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has
given increased emphasis to social projects and has financed projects in
low cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university
education, water supply, rural electrification, and land erosion control.
In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic
energy and to expand the activity of the productive sectors to help generate
increased employment. USAID has supported programs in education, urban
development and small farm development, but is phasing out its aid program in
Colombia over the next few years with about US$10 million remaining to be
disbursed on previous loans. The Governments of the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for
social and regional integration projects.
III. THE SECTOR, THE CITY AND ZONE AND THE INSTITUTION
Sector Background and Organization
24.       Colombia's rugged topography--three Andean mountain ranges separating
the main centers of population and economic activity--accounts for the high
priority successive governments have given to the development of adequate
telecommunications infrastructure and its relatively advanced stage of
development. Colombia's 5.6 telephones per 100 population is comparable
to the rates in Brazil, Costa Rica and Mexico, which are 4.0, 6.9 and 5.5
respectively, 1/ all of which have higher per capita incomes. Telegraph
services are also well developed with 1600 offices all over the country,
including at least one in each town with 3,000 people or more.
25.       The early development of telecommunications facilities came about
through the proliferation of local independent institutions--by 1970, 66
entities operated telephone facilities. The vast majority of these were
municipal companies which operate a small number of telephones, independently
of one another. Initially, long distance and international telephone and
1/ Information from The World Telephones, published by AT&T in January, 1978.



-9-
telegraph services were run by foreign companies under Government concessions,
while the national telegraph system was operated by the Ministry of Communica-
tions. In 1947, the Government created the autonomous Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM) to operate and further develop long distance
services. With the exception of most lines within the Department of Antioquia,
where the Empresas Departamentales de Antioquia (EDA) operates, TELECOM is
responsible for all long distance and international services as well as the
telex system. In line with the need to reduce the fragmented operation of the
sector (see paragraph 29 below), TELECOM has recently been acquiring several local
telephone companies and expanding its services to rural and small urban areas.
26.       During the 1970s, the sector expanded rapidly.  The number of
telephones more than doubled to an estimated 1.4 million by 1979 and a large
number of rural areas were provided with public call offices. Nonetheless, a
large unfilled demand remains (estimated at 250,000 lines), which together
with intensive use of existing lines, has resulted in serious network conges-
tion and subscriber dissatisfaction. Similarly, long distance networks suffer
from call traffic congestion, although with the assistance of previous Bank
loans, the reliability of long distance service has improved and the quality
of completed calls is good. International telephone services are also of high
quality but with similar congestion problems. Telegraph and telex services
appear adequate for current needs.
27.       The Government exercises control over the companies and the sector
in a variety of ways and through different institutions. The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) formulates policy and regulates all communications
entities. Setting priorities and approving investment programs of individual
entities are the responsibilities of the National Planning Department (NPD).
The National Tariff Board (NTB), chaired by the Chief of the NPD, has authority
to approve tariff levels for each utility company. When proposals regarding
telecommunications tariffs are considered, the MOC is represented on the NTB.
The sharing of long distance telephone revenues between TELECOM and each local
company is determined by contracts negotiated between the two entities.
Sector Issues and Government Strategy
28.       Despite the substantial progress achieved, the local and internal
long distance systems are inadequate to satisfy the present needs of the
economy. Demand has repeatedly exceeded system capacity and congestion has
become a serious problem. In many of the municipal entities, there has been
virtually no growth in exchange capacity during the past five years and no
planning for future needs.
29.       The fragmentation of operations among the -telecommunications
entities has been largely responsible for the inadequacies of the system.
Most of them do not have the capacity to manage their operations effectively,
let alone plan and implement an expansion program. Furthermore, many have
substantial financial difficulties resulting from deficient management, exces-
sive short-term borrowings and inadequate tariffs. Procurement practices are
also unsatisfactory and result in excessive costs. To help overcome this prob-
lem, the Government has been promoting institutional consolidation into five or
six strong regional/municipal entities and one national company (TELECOM).



- 10 -
30.       Since 1975, the Government has placed a high priority on regional
development and integration and, in support of this, it has given emphasis to
expanding the transport and communications infrastructure. The Administration
which took office in August 1978 has reiterated this policy. For communications,
the Government's principal aims are to reduce the excessive congestion existing
for all telephone services, expand services to new areas, and consolidate the
large number of entities into a smaller number of well-run and financially
viable institutions to improve overall sector efficiency. Progress is already
occurring on each of the above fronts: by 1985, about one-half of rural
communities is expected to have access to telephones; congestion on long
distance and some local exchanges is being reduced; and the number of entities
has already declined from 66 to 38.
The Bank's Role
31.       The Bank has made four loans totalling US$106 million for tele-
communications in Colombia. The loans have all been to TELECOM and aimed at
a) strengthening the institution; b) expanding and improving the long distance
network; and c) extending telephone service to rural areas (with complementary
assistance of the IDB) and in small towns. The first two projects achieved
their objectives according to the Project Performance Audit Report for the
Second Telecommunications Project (SecM79-409, June 1, 1979). The report
noted the positive effect of Bank involvement on the organization of TELECOM
and its procurement practices--ICB, specifically, resulted in lower prices
and better equipment specification. A third project, which is nearly completed,
continued along the above lines. Based on the results of the initial Bank
projects, the Government requested the Bank to undertake a sector,study
(Telecommunications Sector in Colombia, Report No. 663-CO, May 16, 1975) and
to follow up with a fourth operation (Loan 1450-CO) aimed at accelerating
sector consolidation. The ongoing project provides long term financing to
TELECOM for expanding local networks in which TELECOM purchases a controlling
interest. Through this support, the Bank is contributing to rational develop-
ment of the sector and to large savings in operating costs, which result from
standardization and from consolidation of operations, and in equipment costs
by purchasing in bulk under international competitive bidding. The proposed
loan would attempt to establish a similar basis for consolidating telephone
operations in a specific region of the country and would strengthen the
institution responsible for carrying out this work (see paragraphs 39 and
49-51 of this report). This would be the first telecommunications project
with a municipal company, albeit one which has already ventured outside the
municipality and intends to expand gradually its area of operations.
Medellin and its Environs
32.       Medellin is the capital and principal center of Antioquia, the most
heavily populated department in Colombia. Medellin and its immediate suburbs
situated in the Aburra Valley of the Central mountain range account for about
one-half of the department's estimated 3.5 million people. Colombia's indus-
trialization began in Medellin and for many years it was the leading industrial
and commercial center in the country. Though it has been overtaken by the
rapidly growing Bogota, the capital, it is still the major industrial center
for production of a large range of commodities, including textiles, garments



- 11 -
and leather goods, and accounts for about 23% of the country's industrial
employment and 19% of its output. Surrounding Medellin is also a rich agri-
cultural area farmed by notably efficient small owner operators (many of whom
are being provided with assistance under a loan for Integrated Rural Develop-
ment, 1352-CO) producing flowers, beans, vegetables and a variety of other food
crops. Colombia's major coffee producing region is also nearby.
33.       The area within about a 35 km. radius of Medellin includes a large
number of towns ranging in population from about 10,000 to over 100,000
inhabitants. These towns have been growing rapidly since the physical growth
of Medellin has reached its limits. Two major developments are expected to
influence greatly the spatial development of the entire southern region of the
department. Construction of the Medellin airport at Rio Negro, in the valley
adjacent to the Aburra Valley, is currently underway with the assistance of a
Bank aviation loan (1624-CO). An industrial and free trade zone is also
planned for construction close to the airport. Together, these developments
are expected to result in a rapid growth of industry, population, housing and
services. Another urban complex is also planned north of Medellin adjacent to
Bello, a town with over 100,000 population, which may nearly double the
population of that area by 1990. The demands for public services, including
telephones, can be expected to grow rapidly in areas farther away from Medellin.
Empresas Publicas de Medellin--The Borrower
34.       Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM) is an autonomous public entity
set up by the municipality to provide electricity, telephone, water supply and
sewerage services to the population of Medellin and vicinity. EPM is a well-run
institution with a qualified technical staff. Pay scales are attractive,
training courses are provided in-house and staff turnover is low. It is
managed by a seven-member Board of Directors with the Mayor of Medellin as the
Chairman. Day-to-day administration is in the hands of a general manager,
appointed by the Board and who is assisted by four managers (technical,
operations, finance and administration), a secretary general for legal matters
and a planning director. Each manager oversees all four services related to
his/her area of responsibility.
35.       The telephone branch of EPM is the second largest network in the
country. It operates 206,800 main telephones in 29 exchanges in Medellin and
in nine nearby municipalities. EPM is slowly expanding its command area
incorporating networks away from central Medellin. Two additional towns have
recently requested EPM to operate their systems, which are expecting to be
incorporated in due course. With the growth of operations towards Rio Negro,
it is anticipated that a number of additional municipalities will be easily
*           and economically included in the EPM system.  By the end of the proposed
project period, only six Antioquian communities of greater than 10,000 (but
less than 20,000) population are likely to remain outside the EPM system.
Currently, a small, uneconomic departmental entity (EDA) operates most of
these networks, including long distance. If the service and organization of
EPM improve in the directions outlined in the proposed project, it will be
capable of assuming the increased responsibility of operating most of
Antioquia's communication network.



- 12 -
36.       Telephone penetration in Medellin is high by Colombian standards
at 14 direct connections per 100 inhabitants. However, the waiting list
of 43,000 applicants (as of October 1979) exceeds 20% of those already
connected and is equivalent to the net increase of the last three years.
Many of the applicants have been wait listed for five years or longer.
There is serious congestion--during peak traffic hours, only 46% of local
call attempts are successful. Local congestion further exacerbates already
busy long distance lines, hampering essential inter-city and rural-urban
communication.
37.       While business (including government, professions, commerce and
industry) accounted for 23% of the telephones, it generated 52% of the call
traffic of EPM's system. The impact of business on related usage is, however,
much greater than the above figures indicate since businesses--and residences
used for business purposes--generate most of the traffic during the peak
period, and provision of an adequate grade of service for this traffic is the
primary determinant of system capacity costs.
38.       EPM has developed a master Telephone Development Plan for 1980 to
1990 based on detailed forecasts of demand and plant growth. It has used
block-by-block analysis to map out the quantity and location of growth. The
11-year plan is divided into two stages with the first aiming to increase
connections from 206,000 in 1978 to 326,000 in 1984, and in the second to
506,000 by 1990. The first stage program is estimated to cost US$160.3
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$101.2 million
equivalent. This large foreign exchange requirement would have to be financed
from several external sources, in addition to the proposed Bank loan.
39.       Telecommunications accounts for roughly 12% of EPM's assets compared
to nearly 75% for electricity and 13% for water and sewerage. Management time
has consequently concentrated far more heavily on power generation and
distribution. This has been manifested in the relative superiority of
procurement practices in power vis-a-vis telecommunications and in the need
for management focus on improved maintenance and sound planning to take
account of technological developments. It is expected that, as a consequence
of Bank and commercial borrowing (as opposed to suppliers' credits) and the
use of international competitive bidding, EPM will reduce costs significantly
on equipment purchases. Likewise, carrying out the recommendations of the
proposed study on telephone branch organization (paragraph 49 below) is
expected to have a profound effect on EPM's capacity to operate its future
targe-scale telephone network outside Medellin. The proposed project is
intended as a first step in building an organizationally and technically
sound regional telephone enterprise. Lastly, with assistance from the IDB,
EPM is expanding its water supply and sewerage facilities as well as strengthen-
ing that branch of its operation.
Performance under Previous Loans
40.       So far Bank assistance has been directed at EPM's power department.
EPM has carried out four Bank financed power projects (Loans 225-CO, 282-CO,
369-CO and 874-CO). An evaluation of Bank operations in Colombia which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 25, 1972 (Report No. Z-18) re-
viewed, inter alia, the experience with EPM under the first three projects.



- 13 -
The projects were regarded as successful and Bank involvement was commended
for having strengthened the power department. The fourth project, Guatape II
Hydroelectric Power Project (Loan 874-CO) has experienced delays and cost
overruns; commissioning of the generating units is scheduled for late February
1980 (see Annex II). 1/ Between 1973 and 1977, the power department's
financial position weakened as a result of inadequate tariff adjustments that
did not fully compensate for the rapid inflation of those years. This in
part was responsible for delaying Bank support for the whole power sector.
Tariff adjustments in 1978 have resulted in satisfactory performance and the
Bank is now proceeding to appraise another power generation project for EPM.
The proposed project would aim at strengthening the telecommunications branch
of the entity in ways similar to that already accomplished for power.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
41.       The project prepared by EPM, comprises part of the company's
1980-90 telephone development program to more than double new connections and
to improve the quality of service throughout the network. The project was
appraised in December 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
February 1980, with a Colombian delegation led by Mr. Armando Olarte, Director
of External Credit and Mr. Diego Calle, General Manager of EPM.
42.       The project aims at satisfying a large share of unmet demand for
telephone connections in Medellin and its environs and to increase the access
of lower income groups to telephone services. It would also strengthen
the organization of EPM's telephone department, so that it would be capable
of managing efficiently a greatly expanded network and procuring equipment at
greatly reduced costs. The project is the first Bank effort in Colombia to
assist in the development of a company which heretofore has concentrated
almost entirely on providing telephone services to a major municipality, into
an institution capable of serving a heavily populated and important economic
region.
Project Description
43.       The physical facilities comprise:
(a) a total of about 108,400 additional local switching equipment lines
in Medellin and in the surrounding areas, with associated cables
and subscribers' plant, and about 90,000 additional connections;
(b) cables and subscribers' plant (for which exchange equipment has
already been contracted) to enable the installation of another
10,000 connections;
1/ To be updated.



- 14 -
(c) 3,300 public call office telephones to serve largely low income
areas; and
(d) building extensions to house project equipment.
During the execution of the proposed project, EPM would also carry out studies
to identify a more appropriate organizational structure for its large-scale
telephone operations and to help rationalize the telephone tariff structure.
Costs and Financing
44.       The cost of the project is estimated at about US$110.0 million equiva-
lent, including foreign exchange expenditures of about US$67.5 million, or about
61% of the total project cost. The cost estimates are based on December 1978
prices paid by Colombian telephone entities and adjusted for inflation during
1979. Price contingencies amount to 36% of base costs and are based on forecasts
of annual international and domestic inflation. Physical contingencies of 7%
are provided for civil works; however, none is required for equipment since the
needs are based on detailed engineering designs and plans. A breakdown of costs
by project component is contained in the Loan and Project Summary at the begin-
ning of this report.
45.       The proposed Bank loan of US$44 million would finance 40% of the
total project cost, and about 65% of the foreign exchange cost. EPM would also
obtain external credits of approximately US$11.5 million equivalent from suppli-
ers and US$9.9 million equivalent from commercial banks. The balance of project
costs of US$44.6 million (40.5% of-total project costs) would be financed
from EPM's internal cash generation.
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursement
46.       All goods financed under the Bank loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Of the goods to be procured with Bank loan funds, only cables are currently
manufactured in Colombia. Telephones and switching equipment may also be
manufactured in Colombia by the time bids are received. For all such procure-
ment, qualified domestic manufacturers would be given a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% of the CIF price, or the existing import duty whichever is
lower. Other imported goods not financed by the Bank would be procured under
ICB except where additions to existing equipment warrant standardization, in
which case they would be purchased by negotiation. Goods such as cable ducts
and poles which are locally manufactured by a number of firms would be
procured through competitive bids from domestic suppliers and financed with
EPM's funds. The local procurement practices permit competition and are
satisfactory.
47.       EPM staff would prepare engineering designs and bid documents,
evaluate bids and draw up equipment contracts. They would also lay and
commission all local distribution cables, and would supervise cable duct
construction to be carried out by local contractors. All installation and



- 15 -
maintenance of equipment would be carried out by EPM's technical staff. Where
new technologies are involved, EPM's staff would assist in equipment installa-
tions to be carried out by the contractor. EPM's management is sufficiently
experienced and competent to carry out the project satisfactorily.
48.       Disbursement would be made for 100% of the CIF cost of the imported
equipment and the foreign costs of its installation. In the case of cable,
telephone and switching equipment, disbursements would be for 100% of foreign
expenditures and 94% of local expenditures. The project is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1985.
Institutional Improvement
49.       While EPM's organizational set up for telephone operations has been
satisfactory, it is not adequate for the large-scale telecommunication activi-
ties projected for the next five to ten years. With a 140% increase in opera-
tions by 1990 and the expected assimilation of networks distant from Medellin,
the telephone branch of EPM alone would be a sizeable enterprise. Likewise,
the rapid technological advances in the field, will require a degree of special-
ization and full-time management, which is not possible under the current orga-
nizational structure. After discussing this matter with the Bank, EPM has
decided to begin organizing gradually an integrated branch including all activi-
ties related to telecommunications. It has agreed to complete a study by
February 28, 1981, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and by
September 30, 1981 begin to carry out the recommendations of the study after
receiving comments from the Bank (section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Overall staff productivity is high with a staff ratio of 4.2 per
1000 telephones. However, the standard of subscriber service, in terms
of repair of faults, is inadequate. EPM is examining its maintenance system
with an eye towards improving fault clearance procedures and, if required,
employing additional maintenance staff; with Bank consultation it has estab-
lished performance targets for improving maintenance service.
51.       EPM maintains a progressive tariff structure for residences that
varies according to property value. It also has a different rate structure
for businesses and homes. Since, in the future, EPM plans to meet a high
percentage of growing demand, it is important that its tariff structure pays
due attention to economic efficiency, so that it generally reflects incremental
expansion costs, while achieving an equity impact. EPM has provided assurances
that by September 1, 1981 it will carry out under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank a study of its telephone tariffs and put into effect a
program, satisfactory to the Bank, based on conclusions of the study (section
5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Since a similar study is being undertaken
under Loan 1450-CO by TELECOM, which earns the vast majority of its revenues
from long distance services, the combination of the two studies should provide
a basis for establishing telephone tariff structures in Colombia, generally,
and for the division of revenues from long distance services between TELECOM
and local companies, a notably complex issue.
Finances
52.       EPM's consolidated financial position and that of each of its
departments (power, telephones, water and sewerage) is satisfactory. During



- 16 -
1977 to 1979, annual debt service coverage was never below two and based on
projections through 1984, it is not expected to fall below 1.5 for any of
the departments. The projections further indicate that the development program
of each department can be carried out independently of financial resources
from other departments. In order to ensure that the telephone operations
are not hampered by financial obligations or requirements of the other depart-
ments, EPM has provided assurances that transfers from the telephone department
to any other can only be made (in the form of a loan), once the requirements
for its telephone operations, including EPM's Telephone Investment Program, has
been provided for (section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, EPM
has agreed to maintain debt service coverage of at least 1.5 for each department
(section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The telephone department has maintained a strong financial position
as reflected in a current ratio of 1.7 and a debt equity ratio of an estimated
24/76 as of December 31, 1979. Its performance during 1977-1979 has also
been satisfactory; it has maintained an average operating ratio of 68% and
has generated internally more than 70% of its capital expenditures in addition
to meeting all operating expenses and debt service.  This perfonnance has been
in part the result of generally acceptable levels of tariffs and an efficient
billing and collection system. Revenues from local services account for about
70% of EPM's operating revenues, with the remaining income coming from other
services, including long distance afid international service.
54.       Financial forecasts indicate that an annual rate of return of 9%
on revalued telephone assets would be sufficient for the telephone department's
requirements during the 1980-84 period. EPM obtained approval from the
National Tariff Board for a program of monthly tariff increases beginning
December 1, 1979, which is estimated to generate about 70% additional revenues
from local services for the 1980 and 1981 period. No further tariff increases
are expected to be required to meet a 9% return, until 1983. For 1983-84,
further tariff adjustments would be required to generate an estimated 30%
additional revenue. EPM has provided assurances that it would maintain a
rate of return on revalued assets of at least 9% (section 5.07(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
55.       With a 9% rate of return, the financial projections indicate that for
the period 1980-84, EPM would generate internally about 44% of its significantly
increased capital expenditures after providing for operating expenses, increases
in working capital and debt service. The balance would be obtained from external
borrowings. EPM intends to follow its own Telephone Investment Program and has
provided assurances that it would obtain Bank concurrence for capital expendi-
tures outside of that program that exceed US$2 million equivalent in any given
year (section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project would help meet a sizeable unfilled demand for
telephone services in Medellin, and in the surrounding areas. The installation
of about 3,000 public call offices in rural and urban low income communities
combined with the continued highly subsidized call rate would provide large



- 17 -
numbers of the poor with convenient access to telephone services for the first
time. The project would facilitate the timely delivery of goods and services,
and contribute to improved efficiency in industry, commerce and services. It
would also strengthen the management and operation of EPM's telephone network,
spread services to new areas and, thus, pave the way for further consolidation
of the country's telecommunications sector. The project would also have a
positive effect on the environment since communications would be used where,
in its absence, transport may have been required. Better access to health and
emergency services can be expected to result from reduced congestion and
increased access of the poor to telephones.
57.       The economic rate of return on EPM's 1980-84 telecommunications
investment program, of which the project is an integral part and 70% of its
cost, is at least 16.8%. Benefits were measured in terms of the incremental
revenues that are expected to result from the program. Financial costs and
benefits were transformed to economic ones by applying a standard conversion
factor for foreign exchange of 0.93 and a shadow wage rate ratio of 0.68.
The incremental returns, however, which are based on official tariffs rather
than on the--unmeasurable--consumers' willingness to pay, underestimate
the benefits to subscribers in commerce and industry. Moreover, they do not
include the estimated revenues from the additional lines that would undoubtedly
be connected sometime in the future over and above those included in the project,
but for which the capacity is built under this project. With an unfavorable
combination of 10% higher capital and operating costs and 10% lower revenues,
sensitivity analysis suggests that the rate of return would not fall below 12%.
58.       The project is technically feasible and offers limited risk.
Telecommunications projects generally comprise a large number of independent
activities, so that delays in completing a few items of works do not generally
prevent the realization of benefits from other newly created assets.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EPM, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1980



-19-                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                    Page  1  of  5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANDAREAISANSQ.K)COLOMBIA  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUS-ED AfERAGFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. E.)                   COLOMBIA                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1138.9                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     225.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c  GROUP id   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 240.0       380.0    870.0           1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0        606.0    685.0            943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     15.8        21.3      24.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2        59.8      65.5            59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      38.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      22.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0     109.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0        46.8      38.0            40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         51.0        50.5      59.0            54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.7       3.0             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.1             2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                              6.0/B       5.2       3.9             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         36.0      30.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0        11.0       8.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2       1.8             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4    263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      48.6            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1OO)          97.0        99.0    107.0             99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        92.0      94.0 d         107.0      105.3       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      45.5 [k         60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        29.0      36.8 A          28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.0        13.0       9.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0         58.5      62.0            63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..      98.01j          76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TMTAL                               ..        63.0      64.0            63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      73.0            79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        47.0      48.0            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        75.0      73.0            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..         8.0      13.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0    1820.0          1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      2040.0        ..           933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            580.0       510.0    530.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                               ..          ..    320.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..          ..   9670.0           1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0            25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.7/j           5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                               ..          ..       5.5T1           4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.9LI           5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       1.8/1           1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                               .                      6             1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       2:4             1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0/f        ..      58.11           54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                             83.07         ..      87. 5           80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                              8.07?        ..      13.2T           14.2       17.3



-20-                                                ANNEX I
TALE 3A                                       Page,.2  of  5
COLoMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA            ~~REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUST-ED AYjRAGES
COLOH8LA                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEyT HICHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRApHIC   INCOME         INC0ME
1960 /h     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRII_.-Y:    TOTAL                  77.0       100.0      106.0            107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                  77.0         98.0     103.0             109.1      103.6        110.0
FEKALE                77.0        102.0     109.0            107.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0        23.0       35.0             40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                  13.0         23.0      35.0             40.4        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                11.0         22.0      35.0             39.0        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h         21.0      17.0             IB.5        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0        38.0       30.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           11.0  K      17.0      19.0             17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73.0      81.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.0      16.5             29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0       105.0      119.0            172.1       122.7        225.9
TV RECEI'tERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0        38.0       51.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0                   69.0             76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       6.8              4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0/f    6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9        24.6       24.6             21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4        37.9       31.0             30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2         21.0       23.0             23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7      29.7             30.9        33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.8         44.9      44.7             47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6      14.6             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7/f        1.7       1.6               1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGBEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/f i    31.9/i         ..             23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/f.i    6O.17i         *-             58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1/f,i       3.5/i       ..              2.9         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8/f,i    IO.IT .1                       9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214.0            265.6       270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     197.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     267.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     122.0            308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERrY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      34.0             35.2        20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..             46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
te Latin America & Caribbean: /d Intersediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);
7e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976)-  /f  1964;  L   1951-6;  /h  Includes
teacher-training at the third level; /t Ecomouically acEtiv population; Li 1973. Lk National
data. not strictly comparable with previous year.. Recent FAD data show 102.0, 52.0 and 26.0,
respectively for these three messures.'
Most Recnt Estimte of CR? per capita is for 1978.
Revisd October 1979



ANNEX I
-21-                                        ~~~~Page 3 of 5
DEP5INTTTCEs OF ppOri, TINTSATOPB
Motes:  Although the data are draw  from  -ouce  gene.rally judged the meat sathuritati-e and reliable, it should alas he noted that they my sot he interns-
ticoalUy coparable becaus  of the  nck of standardloed oefinltlon. and concpts used by different countries in -11letint the data. The data are, hnontheless,
usefUl. to describe orders cf saghltude, indicate trends, and charnoterine certain major differences between co-tries.
'Ti  ajutedgrupavrages tf-oreachindicator are populAtion-weighted geomeric meas, exclding the extreme values of the indicator acid the meat popuclated
counry  s ech goup   Du  to lak of dnta, grop avrages or all1 Indicastor, for Capital Surpluc Ott  xpurters and of indicators of A-ses  to ldster aci Ecoretn
Disposal, dousing, incom   Distribution  nod Povety for other ocuittey groups are poyntlatics-neighted geometric mean  olthxut exclusion of the extrem   vales and
toe aunt populated coontry.  Since the  -ovrage of coutries smng the indictatrs depends on  - ,availah.tr of data and is not uniform  ctIo mit  he exrcsd
in rebatin  avegnofco:diator to another.  These aversee  are meatly useful as anrxntosof "eprted"vleeenomaigteaosofun
indictorata ie   eg h  country sod referenc  gous
lARD AREA (tooad echo.)                                                                     Access to Etnreta biennia  (ecnt of poplaton  -  ,totl   ra,  n   ua
Ttl- Total eurface  rea cnprisiog land area and inland eaters.                            usher of peopl   toa,uban, ndr l  seodb   oreadooa  no
Agricuatural -  Mist rfeet ont:eate of sgri-ctitural ares used teeprarily                  percen.tages of thir renpeccive populations. Ecrets disposal esy Inobude
or p.ernet ly for oropo, past_res  n.net and hitcben gardens or to                       the co -cunad dioposal, xith or otltiut treatment, of h-s  eurreta
lie fsl.nd  sate-ater bY water-borne system   or the s-  of pit priebr  sod   -latar
,nutallaticns.
ISP PIEP CAPITA '90$) - INP per capita estimates at ourret maket iplos                      P.Mmipacdperphpw.ip,an  - P.  lains diiddbnueropaccngpyisn
-alosiltod by san  cocrno    ethod ax World hank Atlso (1976-78 basis);                                        meialsholat  unicerniy iel.S  rIprcingpyi
1960, i970, unO i978 data.  ~ ~            ~           ~           'peculaion per.Hring Person - Population  diobded by number of practicin   nale
INE5OCCINDTMPSS0NP APrPPTAk - An-..a consuption of -omererial energy                    sod femele gradute.t  nuse, pranti-1 nuns,sd  -.sintant nurses
1ca  ad lignite,petroiei, natural gasadbdo,  ula.n  ge-                                Popultion per Hoaxital Bed - total,  rbn,ad&rrl-Pplain(oa, ubn
thermal eleor-city~ In hilogran  of ocal. equivalent per capita; 1isad                      and rura) dtoided by thrir  Sepoic ubr of hospital reds noablanle in
i970, sod 1976 data.                                                                        puhlio end priests general sod  peLali-ed hxntpta1 and r-habildistton centers.
Hospitals are establishments p.ermnetly staffed by at leant one physici an.
POPULAnTION AND0 VffAL STATISTICD                                                             Establishments prsooding principally custodial care  -'ae'nt included.  uRasl
Total PopiIitlon  Mid-Yeas (.llions)   Asi of July ii 1960, 1970, and                       hospitals, howeve, include health and medical o-ntera not permnetly ataffed
1977 dt.by a. phyeicisa (best by a medi-ai assintant, nurs, mtidwife, etc.)  hichi  offer
Urban Ppsua ic  (percent of total) -Rastio of urban to totai pcpslstlipn;                   in-ptient noodation  and procide a limited rang  of medical facilitie..
differont definitiono  of urba  arcaa my affeot comparability or data                  Ade.lsesa  peI    optlPd-tona  number of admioiuna to or dis-bargen  fro.
amog  co-t.rien; :i96C, 1970, and 1975 data.                                              bospitalo  d-ieded byth  toe            ofhdo.
Poult o   Pr .etin
Poplaio  i  yer  00  -CuLrrent population  projectinos are basd o             0005140
1979 lltotaIllnpopulation -by ago and  -e  sod their mertlity and fertility           Averag  dice of Household (persons per hou.eholi) - total, ura,ad rura  -
rates. Poetnpar-nters for mortality rates comprise of three                            A boosehold cooe of a. grop of individuls ehn shur   icig quaters sos
boIS conni   llfo roP-ctanY no birth iocr....iog cith .-utry'-.                      their mJ.aimeals.  A boarder or lodger my or  .y not he inoliudod is tic
per caita loco_ len,  o           7fnle life nopeot-ny stbdiloag at                   hb.t.shlid if. or  ttintioal parp-e..
77.5  .eso.  The parantr  fur fertility rEn .aln  have tnree levels                  Averge snbeeof ruso  per roo   - total, urban, anrra   A- Aeagenele
anutuing decluo  in fortility accrding to incom  level and past                        of perosoper room. in al  urban, and  rura  occupied -savetio..i deling~,
ifunl  olannhin  perforano. Eaca coutry is then asIge               on  o  these       renpcticeip.  Wellings exclde can-permanet st-uture  and  -utrci;irar
tine combinations of sartal.1ty sod fertility trends for prnjection                  Access to  leotr-ity  (perceta  of da-lilas-1   lto~,talerben,sd rorai 
prposes.; cetoal dselllngs  oheetiiyi   iig   uresa   ecnaoo
Ototbos. ry cPula-1t-c   - In o otutio...ry popl.tisto    there is so grouth             total, urban, sod rura  d-oeuings repectively.
sioce the hinth into is equal ti tl~oetlah rate, nd alno the age
otruotur  renaino constant. This is shiteved only after ferthihity rates           EDtifATION
docluc-00too  -ep oeo  le-I of -iot net repruduotbit rate, ubso                      AdutdErol tRtos
looiooo~oeascuti,natd  on the bsin of theprojected tbarcteriotics            meat of all age  a t the primary level soprcnages of respectior priasry
of the popuistict in tho pear 20000, sod the rate of doulise of fertility                school-age poplationa;  -orlip  inoludes children aged 6-11 years but
rate to  _rplacr_ct lecel.                                                               adjusted fur differe-t irogtbi of primary eduratios; for co-trio. wIth
enstatinr  pulation I.s roeaod - The yra   h.. statiusary popoul.tiuivra  education enrollment nVap-seed 1.00 peroet s;oe Some pupils
cic  a :bo  reacted.                                                                 are below cr aboe tie officIl achnsi age.
PPoputint    D--oty                                                                        Seco..dary sohoci- total male sod femal  - Computed S.ai si-; ueo-iary
Per oo. cM.  Od-pear pplatioc per scyar  kitloneter (100 he-taren) of                      education oquan n;  ietast fou  years of approvd primary iorci
otal  rs                                                                                 procides general oaiol,or teacher training inetructi-no  'or pipila
Per oc. be   giotrlland - Computed noasSo .e for agricultural lend                         asually of 102 to 17 years of age; correpoades-re  -nrse  ar  g-srally
ccnl'.                                                                                    ecoluded.
PPcplnlo  Ag   outrocrcc   Children (0-lb years), curbing-age                              Vocatica  enro -.llmntsent        o  scndry     Pytiona.l institut.o.. boolude
(lb-h  yearn, st-dtretlIrd  65 year  end con) as percetages of ti-year                   technical, industril, or-thrporm    icoeatodperoyors
popula.tion: i970. 1970O, and 1977 data.                                                    depsrtmesnt  of oecoadsry instltutiuss.
yeloiar o;Grouch bats'(P pre      t) toal- ic`un.1 och rates of total sid-                Pupi-tsnoheratsorsry nd sncdary - Total studnats n-rolld to
year popuctioto  fr 1M50-hO   19iM70 .-77 n  1.9y0-77.                                 prmry sod seoany leel  d~ivded by suncra  ftahr.nsecfe
Pou -to gboh Pa,te  ~pore-t) -  r An - O-sca growth eates of urban                      oP.ohgles
popolnibos for 199-60, 1-9t0-70, ai1907.Adult literac   rat p(ercont) - Literte  aduIto  :ablo to resoand ut)a
Ird    ito pat, ochoand) - Aocoa. Ive- births per thousand of cud-                       aper-ettgo of total adult pplto    gd1   er   n   or
yea  pplto;10,970, sod 1977 data.
Cruor loath Once (p_touad    -Ahopa deatbo per tbounnd of 500-your                     COHSUWFTION
Poputlaton  1970, 1'970, sod 1977 data.                                                Paeanner Cur  (per thouan  ooltis)  1-Pssnger car  -cprauc  ntic care
Crono  epodoctiocbate-boo  age ounber of daughtoronoma       iotl hoar              netin esca    Igh  Persno  oxCiude  nuoelances, hearses and mIlitary
:0 irecres  reprod-tiorperiod  fueepeecrpestug-viicle..
opsoific fertility roten;  -.s aly floe-yea  avrages ending ia 1960,                   badbo R- -cro   (per tbounand population) -All types of r-eeivrs ice radio
0979, und 1975.                                                                          brssdan.ta so gon..erl pu~bl ic per thousand of Population; occludesiuoli-eaae
Pumilp Ploobog A bocptors,  .coa  ~thcssanda( - A-..al cunie  of                           -oui-e _isounres d is years ohee regiotratist of rai  s ets  -a  is
oc fpt gsbo brth_-omtrol dl~eov  under auspice  of sostlonal femll                  effect; data for recect years my not bc ocaparable 01ic- eocunries
fa iy Ploog     sr  (ect  of an de  sosin) - Percentag  of  -uried                   TOtoo aper thoois"d cPulation) - Tb re..eirers fcc hrcadcattognea
doiso   hl-beain   ah.54pas   os oe hlrbit-cotrol de-bor                          puicprtouadprlton nldnulicensd TV rececr  in  ootri-o
Sial uriedoco   Iisn  aegou.ed :o. Years oben rhtainof flc nets wa  in effect.
Neapapr Crclaton  po  thousandp oratfion d- Oh-w tho  --ergr  irsoistion
.0CC dAI NOTDITTON5fa                                                                                                                                                 i
Isdec. offo   rocic  per Capita '1969-71-iO0) - mnle.ocf per c-pits                         devoted primarily to recording generalsen It i  omldered to be 'daily'
socnI Prodotlor of all food roedocces. P-do-tibsrocloden tecd -d                         if it nipe..ace s3-et fou  times a see.
fecd sod i on -1-osio_   -'s  lbasis.  Comeditoen cove  prio..ry goodo                 Cinem  A..uaI Atteodunir per Capit.aecr Year -Bhated oo the numbr of tiorotso
e.g. caga nei... sad cf sugar   hidch ar  odible end -ostiniactrtents                odd durig tho year, u-iuding a oin  to once-in oi-.a and  -ccle
(e.g. coffeeIsd ten are  -uclued).  Aggregate prodantion of each couoty                    _nto
ioboned .. natioo... Icerage prosocr prtoosaghtu
Pe  oi-to -upip  cf onlor-v s per_et os' clllroolee nlto) - Computed fros          lABmP FORCE
-orgy  ociulc   f set food ospplies  -cilabc  -n cootry per capita                   Total laorfrce tbhnano_s  - t~Oosomially astive per...., including arme
per dyc.  bA-tlble oupplio  -oprbn- dometic prod-tibc, iparts les                      frore  end unemplyed but eoluding housewive, students, etc. efitotic-
Iroprts, sod changes in 0t000.  Not ioppiioa  -scijd  unisal feed, neds                i  viariu  c-utrie- are noct coparahle.
tunitienoied oc food pr-cnsisg, and bon t id tribot-it. bquire-                    Pmleon  - Pesie lobor force as Percentage of total lIcer furco.
trottsIcr   stated by, PAybsdo  pyiog .ca  sedto)cel                         ~      ~     lIrrsso   - Labor force in farmi.g, forestry, nhnting and
si-it   c  bao  c  doeriog ocrir_mooalbr frra uo , bd  veighto,                flobiog anprenaeoftol ao  fore.
age soc Ioo oiotribtbicnt .f popoincion, and allonig 10 peroent for                  Induntry  percet) - labor force in mining, contrct-o, asnfcturing and
-ite  at bouueb'lo io_vl                                                               ort-iiy , sater  P55  a , naperentgef totaLl labor force.
-yrcpit. c-opil of  -t-e:    eans p-c day) -Protei  cocc   fp0                        atcntln!aenren)-tnlsaeadfml  -   mip'sutonr
cspitu ovt coppip of f-co per dsp. let oupply of fond Is defined so                    asb yftsaecmutdn   oa,ml,ad Coa-le laborfocnopr
Iboc.Pq-ice-ent  for al   cnre   oalse   yU                    rurnd. for a            -etageo of total, sLe and female population of alI ages respeetoely;
ocoimum aicoancoIf 60 grasso  f total protein per day and 20 gram   of            1.970. 1970, and 1975 data.  Th-n  are 1SW' aParticipation  rates reflecting
ucln  sod pulse protoic, of oJ,ch i  gram  should he solsea protein.                   age-sexstruture of tie pepulntln, ens long tIme trend.  A few etimates
These oted-as are lo..er then those of 75 gras  of total pruteis  and                  ar   rmntion 1al sources
00 gras  of soisal proteis os an avrage for the norld, propose d by PAO              EconomIcDpednY Pads. - Ptio of populltico under 15 and 65 and seer to
ontbr Tird Wcold food "u"oep                                                         th  Lab   force in ag -goP of 15-60 Years.
Pe-cpotaprt-i  -upoi  from sourest sod pulse - Protein oupply sf food
ier-vd   umoionlo sod polo-  ~s gram   pe  dsy.                                    INM    ITInO
Child (ugrm   u I Mortal tyPt  'Pr tb_ood  - Aonoal deaths per thcnno                    Prenae  fPict  Icm   'bctb  isash and ilsd) - Received. by ricel St
iaggru1-yer, ,.!toytilrn.          this agc group; for most deco)-              5  aon,robea0pcan,post0   pecn,sd  ore   0 Peren
-oing oo-tr-e  diti Arrived from life tahlos.                                            of households.
IlALTH                                                                                   POV'ERTYTAFG00S  1140UP
:,Ife AostryotOrb'eas                   I oruge oube- of yoarn of life                   Estiunted Abaolutr  oet   noelvl                  e   aia   urbaen  rural-
vtu si.ga  corto; 190  17,  n  1977   as                                             huuepvryiem    leve  in that incm   IbeI beo sIhn                        mni
.fottttity Pate  0,e  thoo-c      A..Anua  lesihn of -nfacta under onotriticoally adequate diet pious essen.tial ncn-fcud requiremets  a not
yaof hae  e  oooed  oe tirobs.                                                        affordable.
AvcoIs to OSfe -d.tor  pororot  If yoic:- toal_ubso,. es  url                            Esti-ldmRes rlati-ePvrySom   re    54prcant) -  ranadrua 
ifoner of people totl, urban,un arurl  nibs reant   rotto                            ta  relat_r  pcrty Inc..e lec-l is on-thirdIofacerge pr capita
oae  atr  su 'pply toldnteae    ufc  snr   eunrae   o                                    personal Inoome of the coutry. Urban leve  is dero-d from  therrl  ae
:ocoot-aoatd naor  oco as chat ftc. protot-i Orbsirs,h             pbn,                 .wih ajsa  fir big her sct of llivig is orh-anreas.
us   aitary sells) aS persotagen of thenr respective pop ti-ton. I                 htacePoutonAlwisuePortynoeLeve   j et ( -urhb  and
en urban arm  aS public foonatinor otandpont la-ated net more than                       rrl-Preto   osltc ubnadrrl   h   r    hsuepo"
_0mters frox a hoSe ey be  .n..idered as being sothin re habonhi
acesof that _coce.  In_ ruralofca  re.s.nnble aroes  told imply
tint toe louses for mehern of tie.. sehold do notices to spend a.                                                                Ec-noo sod Soc;al Data Die-ion
lluprrportlcant  part of the day in fetohing tie fanly' a-st-r seeds                                                        osnoic Asalyi'si  and Pro-jeoton   Departmet
August 1979



8C011197  30-W.AP1A18  18,T4                                     PogO 4 of S
196769                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1967-697-   1875    1988
A90-06       19 75       19 76      1977        1978       1979       1 988       1969              74          79      85            189 85 979             1965
NATTO381 ACCOUNTS9                                                          1976 P~i-o  Ond E-oh-og  6~.00
0,0.5 00006I1 pIldoot             ~~~~~~9,660  84,967     19,236     19,671     17.326      88,282     19, 376     15,922               6.5      5.8      6.8          181.2       103.8      t00.0
3011g. 80010 50805 AA 216d1 7-87  -751      -699                    6 47      _424            38      -164       .424                          -        - -          10.6        8.I         1.7
Cr055 0015es10c Income             6~~~~~~,999  1,8a68    19,228     16,668     17, 753     16,365    19,715                                                                       loc974  .  .  9.  7.25  98. 3
Import (mcI. 880)                 ~~~~~~      ~~1.491  2.047  2. 362  2.418      2.895       3,0        3,411       9, 012              7.5    11. 7      8.7           14.1        17.4       19, 3
810 -0                       -ft. y71)o..88.17  -1.419  -2 297    -2, 782    -T        -2 ~384    -3.314       3,464    .4_49.                _._5      96       5,4           7 5.0       1.8.1      17.3
RU...... 120                                      72        -2,50       -480       -681       -469        -133        .53         514                                -1--47                    -8.7         2.0
COoop8008osd81l--                       7, 320     10,608     11,579    12.540       13.2371    13,954      14.527     19.7035               6.9I     I.,      5.4           70.09      7.9         79. 4
3000400808 0,opeodllreo hod.  98oc4o9    1,61  2, 710     3,1077     3, 427      3, 899     4,2 78      4,535      6. 978              11.      1 2.1      .0           18.46      23. .       26. 9
Coloeort  S-VIng0                             3,589        2, 9670     3,9       4, 106      4,3"2      4,481       46         6.464               11.1I    10.5      7.1'  21.                74.8        24. 9
60110.01 0.-100                               0,529        2,624      329         3,981      4, 228     4,1 56      4,790      5,602               11.6     10.8      6.5           19.4       05.         22.4
66436488068F 78417                                                             80-1 P060 68 C--eo  78-78A65-                                                                                        fT..
8.761s1 Goods                     ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~290  983  671  627  1, 293     1, 771      2,13       4955                         32.0    19. 3           40. 9      44.6       64.95
80-00000-  GoAds  7Fo-l, Po-l)                 254         609        732         872        901      1,223       1.44       2,765              71.4    19.0    14.0              42.7       30.9        26.6
Poets                                            5          15        69          194        239        609         729      1, 756              12.2   152.4      19.1            1.1       13.3        18.8
C--pti..6o  G.od.                              6bi          21        21_L4       235        290        370         426,       638              16.      74.1    13.9            89.9         9.3          .
T.t.1 60-1h.odi-e            (CIF) 728        606        1,425      1,745      2,128       2,717      3,973       4,724      9,882              18.4    29.2    19.4             107.0      167.0      166.7
666061dGood.                            96          324        381        382         4.76       419         779      6,88               31.8     7.4    18.2             1".9        10.1       21.4
0  "00EPol                                 99I        1,291      1,874      7,414      262         3,736      3,761       6,572              14.9    27.       6.8.1                      69.        78.6
08114         7080)73417                                   7647  41,2927  .7  ,760)    2,0047    2,437)    2 ,4247    3,127)                   4  17       63        .27       (64.2)   760.97           37.47
88oo167  8  362    898)    8657               7367  ),,,,,,,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7236)   72927  567)            73.o  24.67                         5m42) 737)   75,47   6.87
706.1 600010   001046                                    1,717      2,255      2,796       3,298      4,331       4,536      8,361               12       26.0    13.0           3009       70.        100,8
8ootP I'ell,O                           21.2         73.9      607.8      141.6      638.3       147.2       144.7      184.1
T0708  P101-  12d                              34.0         95.8      900.8       100.9      188.6      142.9       138.4      233.1
T-o. of T-d4  OOd-O                            62.9         27.1      709.8       128.1      118.7      103,0        91,."       79.2
160710 600E8 0Y SEC538 70-1- 10-)                                  o-10 000        19 676 - 810.1-   -d           R-6,~   60c--008  .-Ioo  Cr001  8.0                                 . Ps--n  0150.
40161010011                      8~~~~~~~~~~,923  4,145  4,224      4.330       4,720      4,926       6.284      6,737                2.8      4.6      5.3           30,6       76.        88.1
79066-9                                     2,427        3,833      9,933      487         4,434      4,669       4,.68      6,7681              8.7       5.1      8.4          26.3        27.6        26.
81t5-                                      4_              28        944834                6.65 4 '      47,~18_466                               3.9       .      6.2           41.1        43.1       43,7
708.6                                       9,590        396       1,0        1 ,4574     1,1         .,1        792        2.                   5.1      5.7       .9          100.9       107.0      670,3
06,A  P-r  o f0 CDP
C6.0o  R-287-                                 413        1.502      1.670      2,55        2,546      3,332      42302    13,1.29               70.3    22.1    725.0            103         008        0.4
Corrool ObOOOodlOores              ~~~~        ~~262  798  791        930    .,1I29       1,352      2.126       6.233              1 6,8    21.9-   24.0             4.8         5.0        5.9
1od6e008p 90-108                               138     .  67          919      1,119       1,439      1,783      7,176       6,898              76.2     22,2    28.1              3.5        9.8        6.5
084h-  PobIll  0816    1 g0706                 434         867        -37        .880         19         -           25        800                                                 I    .,     -         7.
,b61.  10-0- 26-0ot.                          612          917      1,135      1,1.23      1,8636     1.975      7.987      17.367               8.6    21.1    32,0              6.5         6.4        9,9
a66.63088 3.9010-.598                            1969.70     8675-79   1980-85
108000 .g1066  So- 30-8             4.25         3,62       0.73
00001 8566160                                0.26        2.02        1,33
n-gOs  8,c51  9S-I.,o R000                  7.20        8,32        3.29
6600305  ...001   Rsoog    008                14        7.32        71.74
dO 7.f 8017         2A .  of 7-17
164     1973          0964            1J972       0964-7                                                     cO S- 813907-92
A                                                                                                                      A                                                 ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ogl,1601.8  1.
0   .81168                           3.427            2.057          47.3            37.2         -1.6                                                     700~_,17  _9  87016                               I.,                  22.7
1,,dosOlo                      7.~~~~~~~~~095   1.212          10.7            17.8         271.                                                    P-oo                                              24.2                  19.
5680009                        ~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~1.749  3.,842  34.0        _2.27         8.2                                                    T--0p08  so - O0o,.lo4l.14.                                             12 
82161                          ~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~5,1.34  6.812  178.0     1007.0         3.20681.176
kdo .d0.81115I5 -..,,.,.7088,,,,                         01- 005 Alt071889(16
1944         1973               196             8873-                                                                  Li080-73  N
1 75   1964  U-73       19M-73 ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~78006e61  0.06                                                          0.                    ' 
46101-1-1                               983          01166.4                            160.4               5.9                                                06T6.    0600                                     77                   70.
0008810                    0,8~~     ~    ~~~~~~    ~~37  2,55  35.2          148.6               3.M6o                                                                                                801.
__-__-                               0_730            ._48 6            877.3            971.7017801  70,                                                                                                       00.0                 1M7.
l-I1                                 1.359           1.21)              186.7           100.A               2.6
Fobrocs  0. 1980



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Correct Prices)
Actual                              Estimated                  Proleoted
1970      1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1982         1985
SULAEY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (itol. NYI8)                   1,00      2,165       2,782      3,397       3,992      5,226      5,644       6,138      7,001       10,606
morts (incl. NY')                      1.149    2,030       2.302       2,723      3,414       4,789      5.681       6,796      7,881       11,515
Resoorce Bala.ce (X-M)                  -149       135         480        674         578        437         -37       -658        -880        -9D9
Ft    Servics (Net)                     -180      -263        -279       -264       -156         -97       -119        -172       -275         -678
Profits                            (  -64l  (  -74)   ( -115)   ( -114)   ( -1d)    ( -130)   < -145)   ( -163)   ( -182)   (  -233)
other                              ( -116)  ( -189)          I -164)   ( -150)    (  -38)   (   33)   (   26)   (   -9)   (  -93)   (  -445)
Coerces Traosfers (Net)                   27        48          21         29          20         21          22         24         25           30
b lance on fCatent A.coout              -3         -80         222        439        442         361       -134       ,-806     -1,130       -1,557
Private Direct Invest-Ont                 39        32          14         42          47         65          80        100        130          300
Poblo MALT Loans
lisbsesNnflPects                       235       383        241         374        341         887        552         651        980       1,369
- Repaymsents                            -75      -135        -152       -174       -231        -458       -319        -330       -385         -552
Net Disburse- ecos                     160       248         89         200        110         429        233         321        595          817
DII, MiLToanr                              101        141        109          85        110        282         212        250         275         365
- RepayPents                             -59       -87         -07        -89         -96       -116       -141        -165       -170         -225
Net Disbusements                        42        54          22         -4          14        166         71          85        105          140
Capital Tea.na ftloes n.ei.                 55      -115         215         173         60        291                    -           -
Change in Net Reservea
(- =TIncrease)                             6      -139       -562        -850       -673    -1,312         -250         300        300          300
GRANT AND LEAN COMNITMENTS           1972         1973         1974        1975         1976        1977         1978
Official Granf and
Grants-like-                                    -           -            -            -           -
Public and M&LT Loans
1RD                                74          162           8           88           80         306         475
IDA                                -            _           _            _           _            _           _
Other Multiloseral                  39           29          65            5           93          61           71
GoverPNsents                       114           72          52           66         132           65         113
Suppliera                           39           31          50           74          44           31          90
Private lacks                       93          190          61          164         169           65         146
Bonds                              -             45         -            _           _            _           _
Public Loans n.e.i.                -              1                            -
Total Poblic Median - and
Long-teem  Lo.n.                     359          530          236         397          518         528          895
EXrTERAL PUBLIC DEBT                              O.ta.tndine on 12/31/77                           Outstanding no  12/31178
(RBpayyble in Foreign Currency)              Diabursed Oni                Percent              Disborsed Only               Peecent
Wnrld Bank                                   716,2                      26.7                    711.5                   26.5
IDA                                           22.0                      0.8                      21.8                    0.8
other Moltilateral                           195.5                       7.3                   243.1                     8.6
Coverneents                                  928.4                     34.6                    983.8                    34.7
Suppliers                                    207.4                       7.7                   .209.4                     7,4
Private Banks                                551.0                     20.6                    567.9                    20.1
Bonds                                         47.7                       1.8                    45.4                      1.6
Public Dobts n.e.i.                           1L.                       0.5                      9.7                     0.3
Total Public Medium- and
Long-teem Loans                              2,680.0                     100.0                 2,832.6                    100.0
1972          1973           1974          1975            1976           1977           1978
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Poblic Debt
O .s tatding and Disb:raed /1                 1,626.5       1,901.7        2,170.0        2,318.0        2,403.2        2,680.0       2,832.6
Intereat on Public Debt                          57.6           77.2         101.1          111.7          122.8          138.2          171.8
Repsysnents o  Public Debt                       96.3          131.4         207.5          135.3          151.8          176.1          230.5
TotsI Public Debo  Service                      153.9          208.6          308.6         247.0          274.6          314.3          402.3
Other De bi Serui   (Net)                       155.1          i26.6          118.B          87.0           87.0           89.1           96.0
Totai Debt Service (Net)                        309.E          335.2         427.2          334.0          361.6         403.4          498.3
B-rden on Eport Earnings (7.)
Public Debt Service                            12.8          13.5           16.6           11.4            9.9            9,3          10.1
Total  Debt Service                            25.6          21.7           23.0           15.4           13.0          11.9           12.5
Total Debt iErvic- Pls Net
Foreign Inve Itnent Eccoce                  31.5           26.2           25.9           18.8          17.1           15.2           15.4
Average Tenon of Public Debt
Inserestas 7. Prior YPar
Debt Outstanding sod
Disbursed                                    4.2            4.7            5.3            5.4            5.3           5.8            6.4
A-nrtieatioo as 7 Prior Year
Debt Oateiasding and
Disburred                                    7.0            8.1           10.9            6.5            6.5           7.3            8.6
I8RD Debt Oucuttndicg and
Diabursed /1                                 453.4          504.5          561.7          633.5          671.6         716.2          751.5
IBRE as 7 Public Debt Outstanding
and Disburaed                                  27.9          26.5           27.1           27.3           27.9          26.7           26.5
IBRD as 7. Public Debt servic-                   30.9           29.1          24.1           31.7           31.2          29.6           23.7
IDA Debt ONuttanding and
Disbarsed /I                                  20.9           23.0           22.8           22.5           22.3          22,0           21.8
IDA as 7. Public Debt Outstanding
and Disbarsed                                   1.3            1.2            1.1           1.0            0.9           0.8            0.8
IDA on 7. Pablic Debi Service                     0.3            0.2            0.1            0.2           0.2           0.i            0.1
Cel1ubia DiEision
/1  End of period.                                                                                                            Feb--ary 1, 1980



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
49 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      784.5      23.5 /1   -
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                1.5
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .2
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               3.5
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                 .8
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               2.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               4.1
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .1
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              10.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .3
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              14.4
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                 .9
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                9.3
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0              15.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               14.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              40.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               29.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               58.6
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                7.9
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              82.8
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              23.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.4
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             113.4
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              39.2



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.3
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               81.4
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              61.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0              73.6
1694 /2 1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697 /2 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0              30.0
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0              72.0
1726 /2 1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply      31.0              31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.  20.0               20.0
1762 /2 1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel    80.0               80.0
TOTAL                                           2,269.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          442.9       2.0
Total now outstanding                           1,826.7      21.5
Amount sold                         50.5
Of which has been repaid            27.7           22.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,803.9      21.5
Total undisbursed                                                   988.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



-26-                              ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board      0.5u       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                       Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.           Metal cans       0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09          0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.           Electrical
equipment      0.50       -       0.50
1962        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing         -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera              Development         -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                           financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de              Textiles         1.98   0.15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing         -   0.81        0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                  Livestock        1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A. -            Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de           Tourism             -   0.01        0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del          Development         -   0.45        0.45
Norte                              financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del          Development         -   0.43        0.43
Valle                              financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de             Tourism          0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism          0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing             -   0.46        0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement           1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.           Cement           3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                          Mining           6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities        13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                 Construction
Material       2.43   0.30       2.73
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.65       53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             28.96   8.26       37.22
Total commitments now held by IFC                  11.35   5.39       16.74
Total undisbursed                                  _        _         _



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The project is nearing completion; the paving program, which is the
largest component of the project, has experienced considerable cost increases
and delays. The disbursement percentages for the relevant categories of the
loan have been adjusted to spread remaining loan funds over the paving works
implementation period. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. As
of December 31, 1979, US$30.5 million (95% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - June 30, 1980
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally
estimated. The savings of about US$348,000 are being used to finance supple-
mentary sewerage works which were already identified during project appraisal.
Work on the project additions is well advanced and funds should be fully dis-
bursed by the loan closing date. As of December 31, 1979, about 90% of the
loan amount was disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and the Borrower
continues to perform well. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section,
which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected to be completed by
mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by the end of 1980.
Disbursements up to December 31, 1979, amounted to about 96% of the loan
amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Drainage   (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date:  November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy rainfall in May and again in November resulted in flooding
which destroyed crops in the project area, a study is to be carried out to
determine possible deficiencies in design and a least cost solution for
correcting them. The closing date would be extended once consultants are
employed to carry out the study. The results are expected to be ready for
Bank review in mid-1980.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of December 31, 1979, about 71% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1979, execution has improved. INSFOPAL has prepared a new
implementation program for each city and works are now expected to be completed
by December 1980. The closing date will be extended in one time.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining item is some
procurement of distribution equipment. After considerable delay in resettling
the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was
carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The revised project
cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher
cost of the civil works. As of December 31, 1979, US$51.9 million or 93% of
the loan amount had been disbursed.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of December 31, 1979, only US$0.1
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia, including provision of necessary services for the planned exploita-
tion of coal for export. As of December 31, 1979 only about US$300,000 of the
loan amount remained undisbursed.



-30-
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by December 1980. Subborrowers
have not been implementing tariff adjustments as agreed; therefore, INSFOPAL
is proceeding to take corrective measures. As of December 31, 1979, US$12.6
million or 47% of the loan had been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current  - June 30, 1980
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of December 31, 1979, only US$900,000 million or 6% of the loan remained
undisbursed.
12. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging though corrective measures are being slowly taken. As of December 31,
1979, US$9.3 million or 48% of the loan remained undisbursed. Upon receipt
of a Government request, the closing date would be extended for two years in
order to allow sufficient time to complete the project.
13. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of December 31, 1979,
US$5.7 million of the loan amount had been disbursed.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1979, about 82% of the loan had been
disbursed.
15. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the project's
impact has been prepared. As of December 31, 1979, US$11.3 million, or 22% of
the loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds assigned to medium and large farmers are now fully committed.
Subloans made to small farmers have recently picked up and this portion of the
loan is expected to be fully committed by 1981. Concern over possible diversion
and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially
its end-use supervision. About 73% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 82 subprojects. As of December 31, 1979, US$34.3
million, or 54% of the loan had been disbursed.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
17. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower.  Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks--trunk exchange expansion
and design of buildings to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible
ways to make up some of the time lost, As of December 31, 1979, US$58.6, or
98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds should be
fully committed by June 30, 1980. As of December 31, 1979, US$7.1 million had
been disbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well; contracts for 14 of the 32 construction lots have been signed and works
have commenced. The maintenance program began in January 1980, and consultants
to assist MOPT in executing the program have been retained. The vehicle
weight control program has experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1979, about US$7.2 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
is delayed. EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue
in the implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective
measures to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management
and administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution
closely.
22.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start; overall progress is now
running about 18 months behind schedule. Project implementation plans in
eight of the 23 cities are substantially completed and it is expected that
implementation plans in the next ten project zones will be completed before
the end of this year. The first disbursement application has been received
and two more are forthcoming. The new Directora General of SIP intends to
accelerate project implementation and will establish a working unit in SIP
for monitoring and operational evaluation of the project.
23.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
24.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date:  October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year as a result of the re-issuance of bids for the KfW-financed
component (substations).



-34-                             ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
25.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceeding without delay.
26.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of December 1979, about US$60.6 million had been committed
and an additional US$18.5 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
27.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding well.
28.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost.
29.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
30.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.



-35-                      ANNEX III
Page 1
COLOMBIA
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Empresas Publicas de Medellin
(EPM)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:         February 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:   November 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations:         February 1980
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:         July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Assurances have been obtained that EPM would:
(a) carry out a study to restructure telephone branch management
and implement the results after consulting with
the Bank by September 30, 1981 (paragraph 49);
(b) by September 1, 1981, carry out a study of the structure of
telephone tariffs, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank (paragraph 51);
(c) not utilize telephone operation funds for other purposes unless
such funds are in excess of all reasonable Telephone Department
requirements (paragraph 52);
(d) maintain debt service coverage for each department of at least
1.5 (paragraph 52);
(e) maintain tariffs at a level to produce a rate of return of not
less than 9% on revalued assets (paragraph 54); and



-36-                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) seek Bank concurrence before undertaking for its telephone
operation any new capital investment beyond that provided for in
the 1980-84 program and in excess of US$2,000,000 (paragraph 55).
2. There are no special conditions of effectiveness.



IBRD-3638R I
78'                      78'                      74'                                                7'                              OCTOBER 1976
CO OMIAIt 
A'   rOH AM A  N  r  I  cA C  E A  #H A                                                                                                     ERA
t3erren       X   ,        /        t     S                                 &  }      g     @r
_oo                             A .) e   ~~~~~~MAGDALE N A t     V/                  Y
R. h& oH SCEb  P do, -t
JiPl  dm 0 44040- by fh0
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
V  \  >    a   3, /() i NORTE  \                    y~~ E -N  E  Z  U  E  l hA
,)CORDOBA                          -j  DE
5 A N T A N DER                 A  R A U C A
BOY ACA
o/ RISARALAI / CALDAS                                                CA *  EA t
oM8oIOI.   jCUNDINAMARCXA                                                               da
f     400008          BOGOTh                                                  V I C H A DA/
_4e s           0         f  z/Armen r>   lb0oge  ._           V11                                                                                  4'_
LLE        T                         V L Io vMcenco_
t   /         r  .,       f                     ~~~~~~~~M  E    T    AI                                            r            .
C A U C A E ~~~~~H U I L A                                                           .s~AINI A .
f   .        ~~~~Popoydoro    N-v   '        \         
N/  A R I N 0V  A U P E 5
P.0,           .  S                                         \oo t-  ^  ETA)~ 
-O  I  ,_ ;E,i, F r . ---. it I 0*~~~N 
0    s ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     " 
0'~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA0 U E T  - (A_
:                       .      '       +>    .  }          ~~~~~~A   M   A   Z 0 N   A   S 5-                   Q
2'    COLOMBIA L
L   jE eotions above 1400mIo
D ep a rtmVepOent, inM8denoon   S Co f   bo,dwl*
-'-'.=o4 Mrain rrvers
-4      -   1           B                                                                                       / .  
4                                               .                                                      . . . '   .    .-    .-    .    .......   ...  .  . , 4
,780                           70              ,6800r.                                                    



