Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15736
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3155-IVC)
June 17, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIIVALENTS
Currenicy Uinit   =  C. 1-raiic
US$ 1 1990   =  c('-'; franic 3L_
1991    =  C[l-A franc 28')
1992 =  CFA franc '65
1993   -C C'FA franc 283
1994       CFA franc  555
1995   =  CFA franc 490
WEIGiiFTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)   =  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kin)   =  0.62 mile (lli)
I cubic meter (rn3)   =  264 US gallon
I liter per capita per day ( Icd)   =  0.26 gallon per capita/per day
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower and Project-related Governmeit Agencies: January 1 - December 31
Societe de distribution d'eau de C6te d'lvoire (Sodeci): October I - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA           National Public Debt Agency (Caisse autonome dainortissement)
Ciapol        Ivorian Pollution Control Center (Ctentre ivoirien antipollution)
CRO           Center for Oceanographic Research (Centre die recherches oceanographiques)
DAI           Directorate of Sanitation and Intfrastructure (Direction de / 'assainissen7ent et cles
infrastructures)
DCA           Directorate of Constructioll and Sanitation (Direction de Ia construction et de
I 'assainissemnent)
DENT          Directorate of Environment, Standards and Technology (Direction de
I 'environnetnent, de la normalisation et de la technologie)
DCGTx         Office for the Management and Control of Major Works (Direction et Controle des
grands tracaultv)
EIB           European Investmenit Bank
FNE           National Water FuLnd (Foncds national de I 'eau)
Lanema        National Laboratory of Quality Control, Metrology and Pollution Analyses
(Laboratoire national d'essais de qualit~. de dnmtrologie et d 'analyses de pollution)
MLCVE         Ministry of Housing and Environment (Ministere dii logenient, du cadre de vie et de
1 'environnenient)
MCU           Ministry of Constructioni and Urban Affairs (,Alinistere de la construction et de
I 'urbanisme)
MDM           Ministry of Defense and Marine (Ministere de la defense et de la marine)
MET           Ministry of Environment and Tourism (Ministire de / 'environnen7ent et du lourisnie)
Sodeci        Ivorian Water Distribution Company' (Societe de distribution d'eau de C6te d'Ivoire)
WASAL         Water and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation summary .............1i
PART I  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                      .1
A. Introduction .
B. Project Objectives .1
C. Achievement of Objectives                         .2
D. Major Factor Affecting the Project                    .5
E. Project Sustainability                         .7
F. Bank Performance                              .7
G. Borrower Performance                            .8
H. Assessment of Outcome                            .8
I. Future Operation                             .9
J. Key Lessons Learned                            .9
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES .10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
Table 3: Project Timetable .11
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .12
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .12
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................   13
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .14
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................ 15
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................................ 15
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................ 16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Loan Agreement ...................... 17
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................... ................. 19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions .....................  ....................... 20
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's aide-memoire ............................................ 21
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR ....................  ........................ 26
C. Comments received from the European Investment Bank ........................ 31
This docuwnent has a restricted distribution and may bc used by rxcipicnts only in the perforinzce of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3155-IVC)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Abidjan Environment
Protection Project in C6te d'lvoire, for which Loan 3155-IVC in the amount of US$21.9
million was approved on January 9, 1990, and made effective on June 11, 1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, after a delay of two years. Final
disbursement took place on May 15, 1996, at which time a balance of US$2,157,881 was
canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the European Investment Bank
(US$17.93 million equivalent).
The ICR was prepared by Richard Verspyck (task manager for the project) of the
Infrastructure Operations Division, West Central Africa Department, Africa Region, and
reviewed by Mr. James Wright, Division Chief and Mr. Franz Kaps, Project Adviser. The
cofinancier provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in November 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3155-IVC)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
i.    The primary objective of the project was to reverse the deterioration which had taken
place in the Abidjan environment because of the dumping of urban wastes and industrial
effluents into the Ebrie lagoon by: (a) building waste water disposal facilities; (b)
establishing sound environmental regulations; (c) monitoring pollution; and (d) ensuring the
financial and operational sustainability of the sewerage system.
ii.   Project Description and Components. To achieve the above objectives, the project
included four major components:  (a) Policy and institutional reform  including (i)
environmental regulations of domestic and industrial waste water disposal; (ii) maintenance
of facilities by a private water supply operator, Sodeci; and (iii) strengthening capabilities for
monitoring lagoon and coastal pollution; (b) Physical works including (i) construction of an
ocean outfall-diffuser, a sand trap and a floatable removal plant; (ii) completion of the
existing North-South sewer interceptor; and (iii) construction of secondary sewers for
connecting industrial zones and residential areas to the interceptor; (c) Enforcement of cost
recovery mechanisms to cover operating expenditures as well as debt service of sewerage
facilities; and (d) Carrying out a comprehensive Master Plan of the Abidjan sanitation,
drainage and environmental protection system.
iii.   Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks. The project concept and its objectives
were clear and consistent with the sectoral adjustment program which had been prepared and
negotiated at the same time. Both water and sanitation aimed at increasing private sector
participation, improving cost recovery policies and restoring the financial autonomy of the
water and sanitation sectors. Some project features were very demanding such as the unusual
cost-sharing arrangements. The sole project risk mentioned in the SAR was associated with
the completion of the financial restructuring of the National Water Fund (Fonds national de
1 'eau; FNE), which actually took place at the end of 1990, but had a short-lived impact when
the Government started again to accumulate arrears on water bills (paras. 5-7).
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   Achievement of Objectives. The first policy objective, namely to establish a new
regulatory framework, was not achieved. Regulations were drafted but are still to be enacted.
Despite these substantial delays, the execution of the project still achieved policy objectives
by paving the way for increasing the responsibilities of the private operator, Sodeci, under a
new lease contract (paras. 8-9).
v.    Cost recovery from the project's beneficiaries and water users has been adequate, but
collected revenues were not transferred to FNE in a timely manner-contrary to the financial



- 11 -
covenants of the loan agreement. Overall, FNE was relegated to a passive role and the
project's financial objectives were only partly achieved. The financial relations between the
various actors resumed in 1995 when the Government began to repay its arrears towards
Sodeci (paras. 10-1 1).
vi.   Ivorian institutions implemented all project components. The achievement of the
institutional development objectives was nonetheless partial because: (a) the Office for the
Management and Control of Major Works (Direction et Contr6le des grands travaux;
DCGTx) was unable to update the Master Plan; and (b) overall sector coordination was
deficient (paras. 12-13).
vii.   Environmental objectives were achieved. A measure of potential benefits is given by
the volumes of waste water that may be discharged into the ocean outfall. It is estimated that
the organic pollution of the lagoon will be reduced by 80 percent. The commissioning of the
outfall had to be postponed by more than a year pending the installation of odor-suppression
equipment.  In addition, the construction of the outfall caused minor damages to the
neighboring buildings which were compensated only after the closing date (paras. 14-16).
viii. The project went beyond its physical objectives. About 174,000 inhabitants (to be
compared to SAR estimates of 140,000 inhabitants) and industrial units of the Port area
representing 220,000 equivalent-inhabitants were connected to the interceptor. Sixty-seven
percent of the waste water generated by water users connected to the sewerage system may
be discharged into the main interceptor and the outfall.  The pilot on-site sanitation
component was not completed as expected. Those works were programmed and executed
using a standard top-down approach, which did not allow meaningful conclusions
(paras. 17-20).
ix.   Economic Evaluation. The economic rate of return is now estimated at 12 percent
(15.4 percent expected in the SAR) and the net present value of its benefits and costs-
computed with a discount rate of 10 percent-is now CFA franc 2.5 billion, compared with
the SAR estimate of CFA franc 7.7 billion (para. 22).
x.    Costs and Delays.  The final costs of the project amount to US$42.4 million
(compared to SAR estimates of US$49.9 million). The final cost of the physical facilities was
5 percent below SAR estimates, but the completion of the works required two extensions of
the closing date from December 31, 1993 to December 31, 1995 (para. 17).
xi.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project was mostly implemented during a
period of severe economic depression which resulted in: (a) blocking the financial relations
between the Treasury, Sodeci, FNE and the National Public Debt Agency (Caisse autonome
d'amortissement; CAA); and (b) the unavailability of counterpart funds to carry out the
master plan studies. On the institutional side, procurement activities and decisions regarding
the regulatory framework were particularly affected by the frequent ministerial reshuffles and
organizational changes (paras. 25-27).
xii.  Sustainability. The strong commitment of the Government to a functional sewerage
system for Abidjan is not questionable, even in the face of the substantial delays in approving
the new regulatory framework. There is full ownership of the pollution monitoring program.
The project will likely maintain its physical achievements in view of the past performances of



- iii -
the private operator. In addition, the lease contract reinforces the sustainability of project
achievements (paras. 29-30).
xiii.  Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank played a decisive role in project
preparation by insisting on an independent review of the original design studies which had
recommended complex treatment solutions. The global environmental impact was carefully
reviewed by the Bank, but the direct impact of project works was clearly overlooked. During
the supervision, the Bank recognized that the lack of compliance with financial covenants
was a macro-economic issue which could only be addressed by an adjustment of the
exchange rate and renounced to use remedies. Instead, Bank efforts were successfully
directed towards bringing a consensus on the reform of the contractual framework (paras. 31-
33).
xiv.  Project preparation from the detailed design stage was entirely carried out by the
Borrower. The quality of the preparation was generally satisfactory.  Implementation
performance was mixed. Critical decisions were delayed, sensitivity to popular participation
was minimal and DCGTx' contract management and supervision performance declined with
the attrition of the staff of the agency after 1991. On the positive side, one may mention the
swift completion of the outfall, the quality of project monitoring and reporting, and the
buildup of genuine Ivorian capabilities, evidenced by the preparation of the lease contract
(paras. 34-35).
xv.   Assessment of Project Outcome.  The likely outcome of the project is rated
satisfactory in view of the sustainability of its environmental and physical achievements and
of its positive net present value (para. 36).
Future Operation and Lessons Learned
xvi.  Operational responsibilities have been streamlined and are vested into Sodeci and the
Directorate of Environment of the Ministry of Housing and Environment (Ministere du
logement, du cadre de vie et de 1'environnement; MLCVE), which is responsible for
supervising Sodeci and enforcing the regulatory framework. Resources generated by the user
fees will fund the incremental expenditures of the pollution monitoring program. The Bank
should follow up project operations in two respects. First, the actual environment impact of
the ocean outfall should be closely monitored as it is the only facility of this kind on the West
African coast. Second the execution of the lease contract-again a premiere in sub-Saharan
Africa-should lead to interesting conclusions. Bank assistance should continue in the
sanitation sector, to help preparing a genuine national strategy that would not only build on
Abidjan's experience, but also explore new solutions and pave the way for better beneficiary
participation (paras. 37-38).
xvii.  The key lessons learned from project implementation are as follows:
(1)   Establishing surcharges on water tariffs for further remittance to other entities
is risky. Those arrangements are quite sensitive to the (frequent) build-up of
arrears on governmental water bills as the proceeds of the surcharge are likely
to be held up by the utility as a compensation (para. 10);



- iv -
(2)   An environmental protection project may generate, as this was the case,
negative side effects. The impact of construction works in urban areas should
not be overlooked. Mitigation plans are essential (para. 16);
(3)   Contract packaging should not aim exclusively at minimizing the number of
contracts to simplify procurement, as large and heterogeneous contracts may
have their shortcomings in terms of contract management (para. 17);
(4)   Time-based conditionalities should be attached to a dated deadline. The
project conditionality requiring enactment of regulations by the time of
completion could not be enforced (para. 32).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3155-IVC)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    From  1975 onwards, the Bank had actively supported the development of the
sanitation systems in Abidjan, where collective sewerage was justified by the high population
densities and sustained by the satisfactory operation of the networks. Ten years later,
Abidjan's rapid growth had outpaced the substantial progress made in developing its
metropolitan sewerage and drainage system. Abidjan stretches along the Ebrie lagoon, the
coastal line of which spreads over 120 km within the city limits. The city's environment had
been deteriorating because of the pollution of the lagoon that originated mainly from organic
sewage and industrial effluents discharged through several outlets and from septage
continuously dumped into the lagoon.
2.    The project was initially designed as the third phase of the implementation of the
Abidjan master plan studies for sewerage and drainage carried out with Bank/UNDP
assistance in the seventies. The first two phases, which were executed between 1978 and
1986, provided for major extensions of the city's sewerage and drainage networks and helped
to remove waste water from the immediate environment to the lagoon. Environmental
consultants confirmed in 1985 that an ocean outfall was an adequate solution for the eventual
discharge of liquid wastes. The project was appraised in July 1987, but the entire portfolio of
Bank projects in preparation in Cote d'Ivoire was then put on hold, pending agreement on a
program of sectoral adjustment operations (including one for the water and sanitation sector)
and on the macro-economic framework. Negotiations eventually took place in July 1989 and
the project was approved by the Board in January 1990 and made effective in June 1990.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The primary objective of the project was to reverse the deterioration which had taken
place in the Abidjan environment because of the dumping of urban wastes and industrial
effluents into the Ebrie lagoon by: (a) building waste water disposal facilities; (b)
establishing sound environmental regulations; (c) monitoring pollution; and (d) ensuring the
financial and operational sustainability of the sewerage system.
4.    Project Description: To achieve the above objectives, the project included four
major components: (a) Policy reform and institutional development including (i) enactment
and enforcement of new environmental regulations ensuring appropriate disposal of domestic
and industrial waste water; (ii) assignment of responsibility for maintaining and operating



Abidjan sewerage facilities to the private Ivorian water supply company Sodeci which was
selected in 1988 through competitive bidding; and (iii) strengthening capability of the
Ministry of Defense and Marine (MDM) and the Center for Oceanographic Research (Centre
de recherches oceanographiques; CRO) for monitoring lagoon and coastal ocean pollution;
(b) Physical works including (a) construction of a 1.2 km ocean outfall-diffuser, of a sand
trap and of a floatable removal plan; (ii) completion over 6.5 km of the existing North-South
sewer interceptor to collect waste water and septage; and (iii) construction of 26 km of
secondary sewers for connecting industrial zones and residential areas already equipped with
tertiary sewers to the interceptor; (c) Enforcement of satisfactory cost recovery mechanisms
including charges on domestic and industrial water consumption to cover full cost of 0 & M
expenditures as well as debt service of sewerage facilities; and (d) Carrying out a
comprehensive Master Plan of the Abidjan sanitation, drainage and environmental protection
system including measures to promote on-site sanitation in low-income areas.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks. The project concept and its objectives were
clear and consistent with the sectoral adjustment program supported by the Water and
Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (WASAL, Loan 3240-IVC) which had been negotiated at
the same time. Both the project and the WASAL aimed at increasing private sector
participation, improving cost recovery policies and restoring the financial autonomy of the
water and sanitation sectors.
6.    Some project features were, however, very demanding such as the implementation
period of less than four years and the unusual cost-sharing arrangements.  The two
cofinanciers-the Bank and the European Investment Bank (EIB)-were to finance 100
percent of the (net of taxes) costs of works and equipment. The Borrower was to finance 100
percent of the costs of supervision, training and studies (detailed design, master plan and
studies related to the regulatory framework) which were to be carried out by the Office for
the Management and Control of Major Works (Direction et Contr6le des grands travaux;
DCGTx). Those arrangements were designed to facilitate the procurement of the large works
contracts and were actually efficient in that respect. They were also based on the assumption
that DCGTx, then under the Presidency, would easily obtain budget funds, which was
previously the case, but failed to materialize during project implementation.
7.    The sole project risk mentioned in the SAR was associated with possible delays in
completing the financial restructuring of the National Water Fund (Fonds national de 1 'eau;
FNE). That restructuring was carried out under the WASAL at the end of 1990, but had a
short-lived impact that was nullified by the economic recession of 1990-1993.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Sector Policies. The first policy objective, namely to establish a new regulatory
framework, was not achieved. Drafts of environmental regulations were transmitted to the
Bank in 1993 and found satisfactory. However, the inter-ministerial review process in Cote
d'Ivoire was repeatedly interrupted by the frequent reshuffles of responsibilities between the
ministries in charge of the environment and sanitation sectors. The draft regulations are still
to be enacted.



- 3 -
9.    Despite the substantial delays of approval of the regulatory framework, the execution
of the project went beyond the second policy objective by paving the way for increasing the
responsibilities of the private operator, Sodeci, under a new lease contract. The need for new
contractual arrangements arose from the blockage of the financial relations between the
various partners of the sector, including Sodeci, which is also in charge of urban water
supplies throughout Cote d'Ivoire under a separate concession contract.
10.   Financial Objectives. FNE, under the National Public Debt Agency (Caisse
autonome d'amortissement; CAA) was responsible, inter alia, for the debt service of the
sanitation sector and for paying Sodeci's maintenance contract. Cost recovery from the
project's beneficiaries and water users has been adequate, but collected revenues were not
transferred to FNE in a timely manner, contrary to the financial covenants of the loan
agreement. As shown in Table 5. lb, the two resources of the sector, namely the sanitation
tax (collected by the Treasury as part of the property tax) and the water surcharge (collected
by Sodeci as part of the water rate) were sufficient to cover the operating and maintenance
expenditures of the sewerage and drainage system, as well as the debt service of the sector.
In January 1992 and after obtaining a formal waiver from the Prime Minister's office, Sodeci
stopped transferring the water surcharge to FNE in view of the increasing arrears of the
public customers on their water bills. In addition, the proceeds of the sanitation tax were
erratically transferred by the Treasury to FNE. FNE, in turn, stopped paying Sodeci's
maintenance contract. Sodeci, however, kept executing the contract. Overall, FNE was
relegated to a passive role and the project's financial objectives were only partly achieved.
11.   The financial relations between the various actors resumed in 1995 when the
Government began to repay its arrears towards Sodeci. At the same time, all interested
parties agreed that the financial autonomy of the sector was compromised by the intricate
flow of funds and that operating and maintenance costs of the sewerage system were charged
to all water users without considering whether they were connected to the sewers. They
further agreed to prepare a lease contract for the sanitation systems, under which Sodeci: (a)
would charge an user fee exclusively on those water users connected to the sewerage system
and; (b) would maintain and operate the sanitation systems at its own risks. The draft lease
contract was reviewed during the completion mission and Sodeci submitted a financial
proposal at the end of May 1996.
12.   Institutional Development Objectives. The project relied on Ivorian institutions to
implement all project components, to carry out the studies through DCGTx and to prepare the
regulatory framework. Indeed, apart from limited technical contributions that required
specific external expertise, the design and supervision of the physical components of the
project were carried out with the in-house resources of DCGTx. The pollution monitoring
program was designed and executed by the Ivorian Pollution Control Center (Centre ivoirien
antipollution; Ciapol), CRO and the National Laboratory of Quality Control (Laboratoire
national d'essais de qualite, de metrologie et d'analyses de pollution; Lanema).
Environmental and sanitary regulations were prepared by the Directorate of Environment
without external assistance. The lease contract was prepared by a governmental task force
with limited support from the Bank.



- 4 -
13.   The achievement of the project objectives was nonetheless partial because: (a)
DCGTx was unable to update the comprehensive sewerage, drainage and environmental
protection Master Plan; and (b) overall sector coordination was deficient, in the absence of
clear leadership among the various entities concerned by the project.
14.   Environmental Objectives. Achievement was substantial. The pollution monitoring
program collects data (bacteriological and chemical parameters for waters, sediments and
fauna) at 29 sampling stations (14 in the lagoon, 6 on beaches and 9 in marine waters). The
effluents of 17 large industrial plants are also monitored by Lanema. Baseline surveys
assessed the extent of the pollution and confirmed that the annual floods and the existing
channel connecting the lagoon to the sea cannot warrant the regeneration of the central part of
the lagoon. The confined waters of Cocody Bay, Bietri Bay and Banco Bay, as well as the
vicinity of Koumassi and Marcory have reached high levels of eutrophication and bacterial
contamination. The sediment samples showed that the silt generated by organic wastes lays
over more than 50 percent of the lagoon bed.
15.  It is too soon to perceive the environmental benefits of changing the pattern for final
disposal of wastes to bypass the lagoon and to discharge into the sea. A measure of potential
benefits is given by the volumes of waste water that may be discharged into the ocean outfall.
Sixty-seven percent of the waste water generated by water users connected to the sewerage
system through 82,000 service connections may be discharged into the main interceptor and
the outfall. In addition, the six septage discharge stations constructed under the project
provide an adequate and convenient alternative for the septage hauling companies.
Therefore, the organic pollution of the lagoon may be reduced by 80 percent.
16.   Some weaknesses in the design and execution of the project produced negative
environmental effects which were corrected after lengthy delays. During the test period, the
intermittent operation of the main pumping station created odor nuisances in the vicinity of
the surge tower of the ocean outfall in Port Bouet. The commissioning of the outfall had to
be postponed by more than a year pending the installation of odor-suppression equipment. In
addition, the construction of the outfall caused minor damages to the neighboring buildings
which were compensated only after the closing date.
17.   Physical Objectives. Achievement was substantial. The main facilities were built as
scheduled (see Table 5), with some minor variances (length of the interceptor, number of
secondary pumping stations and a 15 percent increase of the length of primary and secondary
sewers). The final cost of those facilities was slightly (5 percent) below SAR estimates, but
the completion of the works required two extensions of the closing date from December 31,
1993 to December 31, 1995. Project procurement had been packaged in three large contracts
for the sake of the simplicity of the tendering process. That choice proved to be hazardous
during implementation, as the main construction contractor was unable to master the wide
range of expertise required.
18.  It is estimated that about 174,000 inhabitants (compared to SAR estimates of 140,000
inhabitants) were connected to the interceptor through the secondary sewers constructed
under the project in the residential areas. In addition industrial units representing 220,000
equivalent-inhabitants were connected in the Port area.



19.   The execution of the project revealed interferences between the drainage and the
sewerage networks, mainly attributable to an inefficient control of service connections. The
project allowed (a) to eliminate faulty links in two residential areas; and (b) to finance an
enumeration of illegal service connections.
20.   The pilot on-site sanitation component was not completed as expected. Willingness-
to-pay studies and demand surveys were conducted in the low-income areas of Port Bouet.
The Bank gave its no-objection to a project document based on a participatory approach.
After long discussions between the ministerial departments, DCGTx and the municipality on
the implementation process, the Government decided instead to finance the major part of the
proposed works under the Social Development Fund established after the January 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc. Those works were programmed and executed using a standard
top-down approach, which did not allow meaningful conclusions.
21.   Economic Evaluation. The economic rate of return (ERR) and the net present value
(NPV) of the project were recalculated by using the SAR's methodology (see Table 9). The
present value of actual project costs (capital costs and incremental operating costs) is 24
percent lower than expected at appraisal. This positive outcome is largely offset by the 41
percent decrease of quantifiable project benefits. The decrease of direct benefits stemming
from the enhancement of property values in the vicinity of the lagoon is attributable to the
implementation delays and also to the unfavorable macro-economic situation which slowed
down the development of housing in Abidjan prior to the devaluation. In addition, the
baseline surveys did not reveal a significant pollution of marine waters by organic and
industrial wastes. The scope of external benefits accruing from increased fisheries output
was accordingly limited to lagoon fisheries, while the SAR estimates took into account
lagoon and sea catches.
22.   The ERR is now estimated at 12 percent (15.4 percent expected in the SAR) and the
NPV-computed with a discount rate of 10 percent-is now CFA franc 2.5 billion (CFA
franc 7.7 billion in the SAR).
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Implementation Delays. The date of physical completion mentioned in the SAR was
December 31, 1992. The actual date was December 31, 1995. SAR estimates were over-
optimistic as: (a) they assumed that the loan agreement would be effective in October 1989
and that construction works would start in January 1990; (b) they anticipated a two-year
construction period. Implementation delays did not affect all physical components in the
same way. The construction of the ocean outfall, which was regarded as the most difficult
undertaking, was completed within the SAR's schedule, partly because the procurement
process was carried out well ahead of effectiveness. Other physical components faced long
procurement delays. Construction generally began 22 months after the tendering date. In
addition, the sewer contract (interceptor, secondary sewers and pumping stations) was
executed over 48 months, 22 months beyond the original completion date.



- 6 -
24.   Factors not generally subject to Government Control. Those factors have had a
limited impact. Laying the ocean outfall required to find specific weather and sea conditions,
which were met at an early date. The failure of one subcontractor hampered the execution of
the sewer contract, but this should have been controlled by the main contractor and the
supervision team.
25.   Factors generally subject to Government Control. Macro-economic policies and
changes in the allocation of ministerial responsibilities have had a significant impact. The
project was implemented during a period of severe economic depression which resulted in
negative growth over the years 1990-1993 and in the accumulation by the Government of
domestic arrears of CFA franc 1,200 billion (45 percent of GDP) at the end of 1993. The
impact on the water and sanitation sectors and the project was twofold: (a) the accumulation
of unpaid Government's water bills, as noted above, paralyzed the financial relations between
the Treasury, Sodeci, FNE and CAA; and (b) DCGTx was unable to obtain funds to carry out
the master plan studies.
26.   The devaluation of the CFA franc of January 1994, as well as subsequent adjustment
efforts, improved dramatically the situation of public finances. In the water supply sector,
substantial progress has been achieved since 1995 with the payment of the majority of public
water bills and the rescheduling of debt service arrears between FNE and CAA; the
settlement of cross-debts is being completed in the sanitation sector. The devaluation itself
had a very limited impact on the execution of contracts financed under the project. Eighty-
eight percent of the contracts had been disbursed before the devaluation and the adjustment
of contract prices was carried out quite efficiently by DCGTx.
27.   On the institutional side, sectoral responsibilities were repeatedly reshuffled between
the ministries in charge of sanitation, housing and environment. The project had been
prepared with the Ministry of Defense and Marine (MDM), then in charge of the lagoon
environment. Shortly before effectiveness the contracting authority (previously with the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport - Ministere des travaux publics et des transports;
MTPT) and the regulatory responsibilities (shared by MTPT and the Ministry of Industry)
were vested into the newly created Ministry of Environment, Construction and Urban Affairs
(Ministere de 1'environnement, de la construction et de l'urbanisme; MECU).  The
regulatory responsibilities were later shifted to a separate Ministry of Environment and
Tourism (Ministere de 1 'environnement et du tourisme; MET) while the contracting authority
remained within the Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs (Ministere de la
construction et de l'urbanisme; MCU). In January 1996, both were again merged in the
Ministry of Housing and Environment (Ministere du logement, du cadre de vie et de
1'environnement; MLCVE). Each ministerial reshuffle translated into new sets of priorities
and into delays in processing agreed actions. Procurement activities and decisions regarding
the regulatory framework were particularly affected by those organizational changes.
28.   Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency Control.  The financial
resources available to the executing agency, DCGTx, decreased markedly after 1991. The
project team was reduced from five engineers (of whom two expatriates on a part-time basis)
to three, although the supervision workload was increasing and at a time when the master
plan studies should have started.  Another shortcoming was the lack of beneficiary



- 7 -
participation or merely of public consultation, which was taken into account only at the end
of the project, to settle the nuisance problems in Port Bouet.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The sustainability of the environmental benefits of the project was contingent on the
satisfactory operation of the sewerage network and on the enforcement of the regulatory
framework. The new facilities are not based on complex processes and do not present
particular operating difficulties. The project will likely maintain its physical achievements in
view of the past performances of the private operator. The strong commitment of the
Government to a functional sewerage system for Abidjan is not questionable, even in the face
of the substantial delays in approving the new regulatory framework. There is full ownership
of the pollution monitoring program which allows to oversee the environmental impact in
both lagoon and sea waters.
30.  In addition, the lease contract reinforces the sustainability of project achievements by:
(a) improving the financial autonomy and viability of the sanitation sector; (b) facilitating the
control of house service connections; (c) incorporating the maintenance of the tertiary
networks of public housing projects within the scope of the contract; and (d) reducing
administrative delays in approving programs of maintenance activities.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank played a decisive role in project preparation by insisting on an independent
review of the original design studies which had recommended complex treatment solutions.
The review concluded that the ocean outfall was the best environmental solution as well as
the least-cost solution. The task manager's decision to change the name of the project from
"Third Abidjan Sewerage Project" to "Abidjan Environmental Protection Project" created a
renewed interest in the project on both Bank's and Borrower's side and helped to readily find
a cofinancier. The global environmental impact of the project on the lagoon and the ocean
waters was carefully reviewed by the Bank. The direct impact of project works was clearly
overlooked, even if supervision missions repeatedly raised concerns in that respect. A
mitigation plan-not required for environmental projects at the time of appraisal-would
have avoided the delays in commissioning the ocean outfall.
32.   The frequency of supervision missions (every six months) was adequate, except for a
gap of thirteen months between March 1992 and April 1993. There was continuity in task
management. In retrospect, the participation of an environmental specialist would have been
an asset, particularly to monitor progress and to assist the Borrower on the regulatory
framework. The wording of the relevant conditionality was not very helpful, as it had been
agreed to enact regulations at the completion of physical works, without mentioning a
specific date. The successive extensions of the closing date should have been used to press
the Borrower to take action.



- 8 -
33.   Confronted with continuous lack of compliance with two financial covenants, the
Bank recognized that the accumulation of arrears was beyond the control of sectoral
institutions and did not use formal remedies. It was a macro-economic issue which could
only be addressed by an adjustment of the exchange rate. Instead, Bank efforts were
successfully directed towards bringing a consensus on the reformn of the contractual
framework.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   Project preparation from the detailed design stage was entirely carried out by the
Borrower. The quality of the preparation was generally satisfactory, although the focus was
primarily on the technical side. Cost recovery mechanisms were also thoroughly reviewed.
At an earlier stage, project design had benefited from CRO's inputs and from the regulatory
experience of the Directorate of Environment, Standards and Technology (DENT) of the
Ministry of Industry. In 1987, the Borrower had appointed DCGTx as the negotiator of all
loans and the sole interlocutor of the Bank. The immediate benefits of that decision were
later outweighed by the initial lack of commitment of other Ivorian stakeholders which had
been de facto excluded from the process.
35.  Implementation performance was mixed. Compliance with financial covenants was
deficient over most of the implementation period, critical decisions were delayed and
sensitivity to popular participation was minimal.  DCGTx' contract management and
supervision performance was uneven and declined with the attrition of the staff of the agency
after 1991. On the positive side, one may mention the swift completion of the outfall, the
quality of project monitoring and reporting, and the buildup of genuine Ivorian capabilities,
evidenced by the preparation of the lease contract.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory on the basis of the following
considerations:
(a)   the project provides an environmentally sound solution for the disposal of
industrial and domestic waste water and will reduce the pollution load of
lagoon waters by 80 percent;
(b)   the project supported the establishment of an adequate pollution monitoring
program;
(c)   the net present value-calculated with a discount rate of 10 percent on the
whole of project investments-is CFA franc 2.5 billion and the ERR is 12
percent;



- 7 -
participation or merely of public consultation, which was taken into account only at the end
of the project, to settle the nuisance problems in Port Bouet.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The sustainability of the environmental benefits of the project was contingent on the
satisfactory operation of the sewerage network and on the enforcement of the regulatory
framework. The new facilities are not based on complex processes and do not present
particular operating difficulties. The project will likely maintain its physical achievements in
view of the past performances of the private operator. The strong commitment of the
Government to a functional sewerage system for Abidjan is not questionable, even in the face
of the substantial delays in approving the new regulatory framework. There is full ownership
of the pollution monitoring program which allows to oversee the environmental impact in
both lagoon and sea waters.
30.  In addition, the lease contract reinforces the sustainability of project achievements by:
(a) improving the financial autonomy and viability of the sanitation sector; (b) facilitating the
control of house service connections; (c) incorporating the maintenance of the tertiary
networks of public housing projects within the scope of the contract; and (d) reducing
administrative delays in approving programs of maintenance activities.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank played a decisive role in project preparation by insisting on an independent
review of the original design studies which had recommended complex treatment solutions.
The review concluded that the ocean outfall was the best environmental solution as well as
the least-cost solution. The task manager's decision to change the name of the project from
"Third Abidjan Sewerage Project" to "Abidjan Environmental Protection Project" created a
renewed interest in the project on both Bank's and Borrower's side and helped to readily find
a cofinancier. The global environmental impact of the project on the lagoon and the ocean
waters was carefully reviewed by the Bank. The direct impact of project works was clearly
overlooked, even if supervision missions repeatedly raised concerns in that respect. A
mitigation plan-not required for environmental projects at the time of appraisal-would
have avoided the delays in commissioning the ocean outfall.
32.   The frequency of supervision missions (every six months) was adequate, except for a
gap of thirteen months between March 1992 and April 1993. There was continuity in task
management. In retrospect, the participation of an environmental specialist would have been
an asset, particularly to monitor progress and to assist the Borrower on the regulatory
framework. The wording of the relevant conditionality was not very helpful, as it had been
agreed to enact regulations at the completion of physical works, without mentioning a
specific date. The successive extensions of the closing date should have been used to press
the Borrower to take action.



- 8 -
33.   Confronted with continuous lack of compliance with two financial covenants, the
Bank recognized that the accumulation of arrears was beyond the control of sectoral
institutions and did not use formal remedies. It was a macro-economic issue which could
only be addressed by an adjustment of the exchange rate. Instead, Bank efforts were
successfully directed towards bringing a consensus on the reform of the contractual
framework.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   Project preparation from the detailed design stage was entirely carried out by the
Borrower. The quality of the preparation was generally satisfactory, although the focus was
primarily on the technical side. Cost recovery mechanisms were also thoroughly reviewed.
At an earlier stage, project design had benefited from CRO's inputs and from the regulatory
experience of the Directorate of Environment, Standards and Technology (DENT) of the
Ministry of Industry. In 1987, the Borrower had appointed DCGTx as the negotiator of all
loans and the sole interlocutor of the Bank. The immediate benefits of that decision were
later outweighed by the initial lack of commitment of other Ivorian stakeholders which had
been de facto excluded from the process.
35.  Implementation performance was mixed. Compliance with financial covenants was
deficient over most of the implementation period, critical decisions were delayed and
sensitivity to popular participation was minimal.  DCGTx' contract management and
supervision performance was uneven and declined with the attrition of the staff of the agency
after 1991. On the positive side, one may mention the swift completion of the outfall, the
quality of project monitoring and reporting, and the buildup of genuine Ivorian capabilities,
evidenced by the preparation of the lease contract.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory on the basis of the following
considerations:
(a)   the project provides an environmentally sound solution for the disposal of
industrial and domestic waste water and will reduce the pollution load of
lagoon waters by 80 percent;
(b)   the project supported the establishment of an adequate pollution monitoring
program;
(c)   the net present value-calculated with a discount rate of 10 percent on the
whole of project investments-is CFA franc 2.5 billion and the ERR is 12
percent;



- 9 -
(d)   the project is likely to maintain its achievements; facilities will be operated
and maintained under a lease contract which marks a substantial improvement
over the previous arrangements and ensures a better financial sustainability of
the sanitation facilities.
1. FUTURE OPERATION
37.   The Borrower has not yet submitted the operational plan. Operational responsibilities
have been streamlined and are vested into two agencies only: (a) Sodeci, the lease contract of
which provides a detailed framework of sewerage and drainage operations, including revenue
collection; and (b) the Directorate of Environment of MLCVE, responsible for supervising
Sodeci and enforcing the regulatory framework. Resources generated by the user fees will
fund the incremental expenditures of the pollution monitoring program.
38.   The Bank should follow-up project operations in two respects.  First, the actual
environment impact of the ocean outfall should be closely monitored as it is the only facility
of this kind on the West African coast. Second the execution of the lease contract-again a
pretniere in sub-Saharan Africa-should lead to interesting conclusions. Bank assistance
should continue in the sanitation sector, to help preparing a genuine national strategy that
would not only build on Abidjan's experience, but also explore new solutions and pave the
way for better beneficiary participation.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The key lessons learned from project implementation are as follows:
(a)    Establishing surcharges on water tariffs for further remittance to other entities.
particularly  for financing  operating  expenditures, is risky.   Those
arrangements are quite sensitive to the (frequent) build-up of arrears on
governmental water bills as the proceeds of the surcharge are likely to be held
up by the utility as a compensation (para. 10);
(b)   Mitigation plans are essential.  An environmental protection project may
generate, as this was the case, negative side effects.  The impact of
construction works in urban areas should not be overlooked (para. 16);
(c)    Contract packaging should not aim exclusively at minimizing the number of
contracts to simplify procurement, as large and heterogeneous contracts may
have their shortcomings in terms of contract management (para. 17);
(d)   Time-based conditionalities should be attached to a dated deadline.  The
project conditionality requiring enactment of regulations by the time of
completion could not be enforced (para. 32).



- 10-
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial    Partial      Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                        U            LI             El             z
Sector policies                       El                          E              El
Financial objectives                  0l                          E 0E0
Institutional development             El           z              El 
Physical objectives                                El             E              El
Poverty reduction                     E            E              E l
Gender issues                         al           E              E              z
Other social objectives               E              l            El 
Environmental objectives                           El             E              El
Public sector management              E            E              0l
Private sector management                          El             El             El
B. Project sustainability               Likely      Unlikely      Uncertain
z            E             ElO
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                        E                           E l
Preparation assistance                             El             El
Appraisal                              l                          El 
Supervision                           ElE z
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                           E                           E l
Implementation                        O                           E l
Covenant compliance                   E            El 
Operation (if applicable)              l           z              E
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
E            z             E              E



- I1 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                 approval    Status
Preceding operations
1. First Abidjan Sewerage and  To set up the institutional framework of  1975    Completed
Drainage Project (Loan 1076-IVC)  the sector and to construct urgently            in 1980
needed sewerage and drainage facilities.
2. Second Abidjan Sewerage and   To develop the Abidjan sewerage and     1978     Completed
Drainage Project (Loan 1577-IVC)  drainage system and to strengthen sector        in 1985
institutions.
3. Second Water Supply Project   To expand water services in Abidjan and  1982    Completed
(Loan 2130-IVC)                  52 urban centers and to support the              in 1992
development of rural water services.
Following operations
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector  To support institutional reforms     1990     Completed
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3240-lVC)  (increased privatization and community-          in 1991
based management of rural facilities) and
financial restructuring.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle               Date Planned       latest estimate
Identification (Initial Project Brief)                                        Apr-82
Preparation                                                                   Mar-87
Pre-appraisal                                                                 Apr-87
Appraisal                                                                   10-Jun-87
Post-Appraisal                                                                 Jul-88
Negotiations                                               Jun-89           23-Jun-89
Board presentation                                        Aug-89             9-Jan-90
Signing                                                    Sep-89           16-Jan-90
Effectiveness                                             Nov-89            I 1-Jun-90
Midterm review                                                NA                 NA
Project completion                                      30-Jun-93          31 -Dec-95
Loan closing                                            31-Dec-93          31-Dec-95



- 12 -
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements - Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal Estimate                 2.00   9.00    19.80   21.90   21.90   21.90   21.90
Actual                             0.00   0.00    6.23    14.54    16.72    18.57    19.74
Actual as % of Estimate            0.0%   0.0%   31.5%   66.4%   76.3%   84.8%   90.0%
Date of Final Disbursement        May 15. 1996
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation
la. Key physical implementation
indicators in SAR/President's Report           Unit        Estimated        Actual
A. Scope of Works
Pipes laid (km)
Outfall/diffuser                             km                 1.20            1.27
Interceptor                                  km                 5.80            7.55
Sewers (neighborhoods)                       km                21.00          24.20
Sewers (industrial zone)                     km                 6.00            7.14
Neighborhood pumping stations                Number                  8              17
Septage discharge stations                   Number                 10               6
B. Service Coverage
. Additional population coniected to the  Equivalent-         140,000         174,000
interceptor                                inhabitants
Industries connected to the interceptor  Equivalent-             NA         220,000
inhabitants



- 13 -
Table 5 (continued): Key Indicators for Project Implementation
lb. Key financial indicators                  1989            1991            1993            1995
Unit    SAR   Actual  SAR  Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR    Est.
A. FNE: Sewerage &
drainage activities
Revenues
. Sanitation tax           M CFAF   2,652    2,234   3,094   2,969   3,441    1,514  4,014   3,000
. Allocation of water       M CFAF   1,386       848   1,280    946   1,173      834    791   1,150
surcharge
Operation & maintenance     M CFAF   1,133       459   1,777    839   1,961    1,193   2,087   1,918
costs
Debt service                M CFAF   1,386    1,629   1,693   1,321   2.192    1,257  2,233   1,734
B. FNE: All activities
Receivable accounts
. Treasury (Sanitation tax)  M CFAF            6,799          3,324            2,364          3,494
. Sodeci (Water surcharge)    M CFAF           9,816           1,451           5,829          2,084
Payable Accounts
. Treasury                  M CFAF            23,606           1,000           1,500          4,850
.Sodeci                     M CFAF                 0            109            1,350            975
. CAA                      M CFAF              7,291          7,421           11,054            NA
Water consumption            M m3      56.3    55.1   59.7   55.8   63.5    59.5   67.2   65.6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



- 14 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined           Status             Impact of study
I. Final design and tender  To be carried out by DCGTx  Completed by DCGTx   Satisfactory outcome.
documents for project    under Government financing.
works
2. Feasibility study and  DCGTx to prepare a long-term Study not carried out due None
master plan for Abidjan's  investment program.      to lack of Government
sanitation and                                      funding.
environmental protection
3. Final design and tender  To be carried out by DCGTx  Preliminary design  Limited impact, in the
documents for follow-up    under Government financing. studies carried out for   absence of a sectoral
project                                             some neighborhoods of  strategy.
Abidjan.
4. Identification of     Study added during project   Pilot study completed by Will provide the basis for a
anomalies of the sewerage  implementation to identify    Sodeci in Koumassi and  program of rehabilitation of
and drainage networks    faulty connections and     Deux Plateaux.         house connections and
interference between sewers                       secondary networks.
and drains.
5. Willingness to pay study Assessment of the willingness Surveys carried out by   Study allowed to identify
to pay for sanitation services  RWSG-WA with Bank  effective demand and
in squatter settlements of the  assistance.       priorities for sanitation
Port Bouet neighborhood.                          services in low-income
Study added during project                        areas.
implementation.
6. Pollution monitoring  To define and carry out    Completed by CR0 and  Definition of the pollution
program                  surveys of the quality of  Ciapol.                monitoring program.
lagoon and sea waters.



- 15 -
Table 8 A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                  Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
costs     costs    Total       costs      costs    Total
1. Ocean Outfall                    1.13     10.19    11.32        0.99       8.92     9.91
2. Interceptor                      3.51      7.63    11.14         5.48      5.63    11.11
3. Koumassi pumping                 0.98      2.79      3.77        1.40      3.04     4.44
station & treatment plant
4. Secondary sewers &               4.30       8.38    12.68        8.00      3.42    11.42
pumping stations
5. Other                            0.15      0.57      0.72        0.24      0.55     0.79
6. Supervision, Studies             1.59       8.68    10.27        1.88      2.83     4.71
and Training
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 11.66     38.24    49.90        17.98     24.40    42.38
Table 8 B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Source                 Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
costs a/    costs    Total     costs a/   costs b/   Total
IDA                                 7.20      14.70    21.90       13.51      6.23    19.74
Govemment                           1.50       8.50    10.00        1.88      2.83     4.71
EIB Loan                            2.90      15.10    18.00        2.59     15.34    17.93
TOTAL                   11.60     38.30    49.90        17.98     24.40    42.38



- 16 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Item                 Unit      Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest estimate
ERR                               %                       15.4                      12.0
Present value of costs
| Capital costs                M CFAF                    8,838                    7,532
. Incremental operating costs  M CFAF                   2,459                      1,090
Sub-total                      M CFAF                   11,297                    8,622
Present value of benefits
. Property values              M CFAF                   13,774                    9,388
. Fisheries output             M CFAF                    5,214                     1,767
Sub-total                      M CFAF                   18,988                    11,155
Net present value              M CFAF                    7,690                     2,533
Assumptions of the SAR retained in the latest estimate:
*  Discount rate: 10 percent;
*  Real land prices have reached again the values observed before the January 1994 devaluation;
*  The area where land values benefit from the project spread over about 509 hectares.
Main variances between appraisal estimates and latest estimates:
*  Capital costs and incremental operating costs are 5 percent and 35 percent below SAR estimates,
respectively; incremental operating costs were revised to reflect the actual prices of Sodeci's contract
of October 1994;
*  The calculation period has been adjusted to take into account the actual completion date; benefits
accrue from 1996 onwards instead of 1992;
*  Land development in the vicinity of the lagoon was delayed by five years, compared to SAR
expectations;
*  Since the baseline surveys carried out under the pollution program did not found evidence of
extensive marine pollution, the project might not have any impact on the output of fisheries in sea
waters. Benefits expected in the SAR in that respect will not materialize.



-17-
Table 10: Status of Legal covenants
Agreement                          Fulfillment
Text     Covenant                  Date          Description of Covenant           Comments
Reference    Class    Status  Original Revised
Section 2.02    3         C                        Open and maintain a special   Special account opened in
account in CFA franc in CAA  CAA in April 199 1. First
deposit of CFA franc 100
million made on September
17, 1991.
Section 3.03    6, 10    CD                        Issue, on completion of the    Approbation of
(a)                                                works, lagoon environmental  environmental regulations
protection regulations     under way
applicable to companies and
individuals dumping sewage
outside of discharge stations.
Section 3.03    6, 10    CD                        Issue on completion of the  Same as above.
(b)                                                works regulations pertaining
to industrial waste water and
permit system for said
effluent.
Section 3.04    10        C                        On completion of the works,  Unit set up in Directorate of
adequately organize the unit   Environment of the Ministry
of the directorate in charge of  of Environment and
enforcing regulations      Construction.
applicable to organic wastes,
water quality and dumping of
septage.
Section 3.05    10        C                        Upon completion of the     Arrangements were made by
works, make arrangements    amending the maintenance
with a commercial company   contract of Sodeci. A lease
for the operation and      contract is being negotiated.
maintenance of the new
facilities.
Section 3.06   9,6       CD      6/30/90 12/31/93  Establish a monitoring     Complied with in December
program on the quality of  1993. Monitoring program
ocean and lagoon waters to be carried out by CRO and
carried out by the pollution    Ciapol.
control laboratory of the MM.
Section 4.01     1       CD   Continuous           Furnish to the Bank, not later  Audit reports of Project
(b)                                               than 6 months after end of    accounts and Special Account
fiscal year, audit reports on    sent to the Bank in June 1995.
the project accounts, of the    Audit of financial statements
agency of the Borrower     of FNE received in December
carrying out the project, of    1995.
FNE and of the Special
Account.



- 18-
Table 10 (continued): Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                          Fulfillment
Text     Covenant                  Date           Description of Covenant        Comments
Reference    Class    Status  Original  Revised
Section 4.01    1         C    Continuous           Ensure that audit report  Audit report received in
(c)                                                 includes a separate opinion  June 1995.
regarding SOEs.
Section 4.02    2, 11    NC   Continuous            Borrower to take all      CFA franc 3.5 billion owed
(a)                                                 necessary measures for the  by Treasury to FNE which
prompt deposit of the    owes CFA franc 4.9 billion
Sanitation Tax in FNE.   to the Treasury.
Compensation of cross
debts between CAA, FNE
and the Treasury under
way.
Section 4.02    2, 11    NC   Continuous            Borrower to cause Sodeci to Borrower authorized
(b)                                                 transfer to FNE the       Sodeci to stop transferring
proceeds of the water    surcharge to FNE in
surcharge in accordance    January 1992 to
with provisions of       compensate unpaid water
concession contract.     bills from Government.
Sodeci resumed payment
of surcharge in 1995.
Settlement of cross-debts
between Sodeci and FNE
completed in 1995.
Section 4.03    2         C     Continuous          Allow operations of       Complied with.
(a)                                                 Abidjan's sewerage and
drainage systems to
generate each fiscal year
revenues at least equal to
operating expenses.
Section        2, 9      CD   Continuous            Before December I of each  Complied with in January
4.03(b)                                             year, furnish to the Bank    1995.
results of review of
forecasts to check whether
requirements of section 4.01
(a) will be met.
Section 4.04   2, 1      NC   Continuous            Keep up to date the register Not complied with.
of the fixed assets of   Notional revaluation not
Abidjan's sewerage and   required until 1994, as
drainage system under the   inflation rates had been
supervision of DCGTx and  low
have said assets revalued
annually on a notional basis.



- 19-
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned                Revised                Actual
project cycle     Weeks    US$ '000    Weeks    US$ '000         Weeks   USS '000
Through Appraisal         62.7         128.8     62.7         128.8      62.7     128.8
Appraisal -- Board        22.7          54.4     22.7          54.4      22.7      54.4
Board -- effectiveness    18.9          50.2     18.9          50.2      18.9      50.2
Supervision              67.0         224.0     67.0         224.0       60.8     193.4
Completion                 6.0          18.0      6.0          18.0       4.0      12.0
TOTAL             177.3         475.4    177.3         475.4      169.1     438.8



- 20 -
Table 12: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance rating b/
Stage of Project Cycle Month/ Number Days in   Staff Skills  Implementa-  Develop-   Nature of
Year      of     Field  Represented a/ tion status    ment    problems c/
Persons                                     objectives
Through Appraisal   Mar-87    4        13   SSE, FA, ENV,
ENVCONS
Appraisal through   Jun-87     3       20   SSE, FA, EC
Board Approval
Oct-87     2       4   SSE, EC
Jul-88    2        4   SSE, EC
Supervision I      Jun-90      1       7   SSE                  1           I
Supervision 2       Jan-91     2       3   SE, SEC              I           1
Supervision 3      Nov-91      1       5   SEC                  2           2      PP, PMP
Supervision 4      Mar-92     2        6   SEC, SE              2           2      CLC
Supervision 5      Apr-93      1       9   SE                   2           2      CLC, FP
Supervision 6      Nov-93      1       6   SE                   2           1      FP
Supervision 7      Mar-94      1       6   SE                   2           1      CLC, FP
Supervision 8       Jul-94    2        7   SE, PWS              S           S      FP, ENVP
Supervision 9      Nov-94     2        4   SE, PWS              S           S      FP
Supervision 10      Jul-95     1       9   PWS                  S           S      ENVP, FP
Completion         Nov-95      2       10   PWS, FACONS         S           S
a/ Key to Specialization
SSE = Senior Sanitary Engineer; SE  Sanitary Engineer; EC = Economist; SEC = Senior Economist
PWS = Principal Water Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; FACONS = Financial Consultant
ENV = Environmental Specialist; ENVCONS = Environmental Consultant
b/ Key to Status
I = Problem Free; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major Problems
U = Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory;       HS = Highly Satisfactory
c/ Key to Problems
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants; PMP = Project Management Performance
AF = Availability of Funds; TP = Training Progress
PP = Procurement Progress; SP = Studies Progress
FP = Financial Performance; ENVP = Environmental Performance



APPENDIX A
RtPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET DE PROTECTION DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT D'ABIDJAN
(PRET 3155-IVC)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(Mission de suivi 4 - 13 novembre 1995)
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de M. Richard Verspyck (charge de
projet) et M. Simon Fajnzilberg (consultant) s'est rendue A Abidjan du 4 au 13 novembre 1995
pour suivre l'execution du projet de protection de l'environnement d'Abidjan. Elle a ete reque par
S.E. M. Gon Coulibaly Lancine, Ministre de l'Environnement et du Tourisme (MET). La mission
a tenu des rdunions de travail avec les responsables du projet A la DCGTx et au MET et avec M.
Yao Bhorey, directeur des Fonds speciaux A la CAA.
2.    Les objectifs de la mission 6taient de faire le point de la mise en service des installations
du projet, d'examiner les dispositions envisagees pour l'exploitation des rdseaux
d'assainissement et de discuter des dispositions A prendre en vue de la preparation du rapport
d'achevement. Les conclusions et recommandations de la mission de suivi figurant ci-dessous
portent egalement sur l'achevement des travaux et la situation financi&e du secteur de l'eau et de
l'assainissement. On trouvera en annexe I des commentaires detailles sur le projet de cahier des
charges d'affermage, en annexe 2 un projet r6vise de reglement du service d'assainissement
adapt6 au cadre contractuel de l'affermage, et en annexe 3 la description des documents et
donndes A fournir pour la preparation du rapport d'achevement.
A. ACHEVEMENT DES TRAVAUX ET MISE EN SERVICE
Reseaux et installations
3.    La mission a visite la station de pr6traitement et de refoulement de Koumassi-Digue, et
l'ouvrage de d&part de l'emissaire en mer a Port-Bouet (chemin6e d'equilibre) ainsi que des
ouvrages existants, notamment la station Allabra et un grand collecteur d'eaux pluviales (canal
du Gouro aboutissant A l'Indeni6) qui recoit actuellement des rejets d'eaux usees. L'ensemble des
ouvrages pr6vus initialement est acheve; les derni&res r6ceptions sont programmdes d'ici la fin
du mois de novembre 1995. Les demiers travaux complementaires sont en voie d'achevement a
Adjame (raccordement de la caseme et 220 logements) et A Port-Bouet (raccordement des
abattoirs).
4.    L'avenant no. 3 et dernier au marche Sonitra et le marche de l'installation de
desodorisation ont ete signes en septembre 1995. Le solde previsionnel non decaisse du pret
3155-IVC s'eleve A 0,95 milliard de FCFA (et A 1,4 milliard de FCFA pour le pret de la BEI). La
cloture du pret le 31 decembre 1995 devrait conduire A l'annulation d'environ 2 millions de
dollars EU.



- 22 -
Mise en service
5.    Les ouvrages et reseaux construits durant le projet fonctionnent, a l'exception des stations
de depotage et des installations terminales (station de refoulement et emissaire en mer) qui ne
seront mises en service qu'apres l'installation des equipements de desodorisation de la chemin6e
d'equilibre. La DCGTx a remis a la mission le protocole d'accord conclu a cet effet le 25 octobre
1995 avec les riverains de Port-Bouet. Cet accord prevoit egalement la reparation des dommages
causes par le battage des palplanches du chantier de 1'emissaire et le retablissement de
l'ecoulement normal des eaux pluviales aux alentours de la cheminee. Les equipements de
desodorisation seront installes en decembre. Comme convenu, les effluents sont rejet6s en
plusieurs points pour eviter de concentrer la pollution dans la lagune de Bietri a la sortie du
pretraitement de la station de Koumassi-Digue.
6.    Les stations de depotage construites ou rehabilitees par le projet ne sont touj ours pas en
service. Seule l'ancienne station 7J1 fonctionne. Cette situation, dommageable pour
1'environnement et particulierement penalisante pour les populations du nord de la ville, ne peut
durer. Le MET va convoquer une reunion de concertation avec les communes d'Abidjan. En
attendant, la mission recommande une mise en service immediate des installations pour garantir
au moins le niveau de service foumi avant le projet; le gardiennage des stations peut etre assure
par Sodeci en utilisant les prix unitaires du contrat actuel.
Reglementation et suivi de la pollution
7.    La campagne de mesures de la pollution lagunaire et marine a et reprise par le Ciapol au
mois de septembre 1995, en ajoutant un nouveau point de prelevement a Koumassi-Digue.
8.    Malgre des assurances repetees et contrairement aux dispositions de l'accord de pret,
cette reglementation n'est pas en vigueur a I'achevement des travaux. S.E. M. le Ministre de
l'Environnement partage les preoccupations de la mission sur ce retard et convoquera une
reunion de finalisation des textes a la mi-decembre 1995.
B. EXPLOITATION DES RESEAUX ET INSTALLATIONS
9.    La visite des reseaux et installations existants et les anomalies de fonctionnement
confirment, si besoin etait, les avantages d'un affermage. Le contrat actuel ne fournit aucune
garantie de resultats. II faut de nombreux visas pour une simple reparation. Les dispositions
relatives a la construction des branchements n'ont jamais et appliquees et les raccordements
souvent effectues en violation des reglements. L'administration, en ne payant pas les prestations
du contrat d'entretien - dans l'attente d'une compensation de creances avec Sodeci - s'est
d'ailleurs placee en position de faiblesse vis a vis de l'exploitant.
10.   La preparation du contrat d'affermage a suivi le calendrier prevu. Le MET et la DCGTx
ont effectue au mois de septembre 1995 une mission d'information aupres de municipalites
fran,aises portant notamment sur les criteres de mesures de performances de 1'exploitation, les
modalites de contr6le dans le cadre de gestion deleguee des services d'assainissement. Les frais
afferents a cette mission peuvent etre finances sur les fonds du pret a concurrence d'un montant
hors taxes ne depassant pas 21.250.000 FCFA. Le MET et la DCGTx ont ensuite prepare un
projet de cahier des charges d'affermage qui servira de base a une proposition financiere et a des
negociations avec Sodeci.
Appendix A



- 23 -
11.   La mission a revu avec l'equipe MET/DCGTx le projet de cahier des charges. Des
commentaires detailles sur ce document figurent en annexe 1. La mission a souligne notamment
les points suivants:
(a)   I'affermage est inseparable de la creation d'une redevance d'assainissement assise
sur la consommation d'eau des abonnes (et des exploitants de forages prives)
disposant d'un branchement d'assainissement;
(b)   la creation d'une taxe d'assainissement individuelle et l'interposition du fermier
dans les relations entre proprietaires et vidangeurs n'est pas souhaitable;
(c)   1'entree en vigueur de l'affermage est inseparable de la promulgation du
reglement d'assainissement et de la reglementation des rejets;
(d)   le couit du contr6le de l'exploitant et du suivi de la pollution et des rejets devrait
etre integre dans la redevance d'assainissement;
(e)   les equipements des stations devraient etre remis au fermier en l'etat oii ils se
trouvent, sans prevoir de programme de rehabilitation a la charge de l'autorite
contractante; l'obligation de renouvellement jouerait donc des l'origine du contrat,
ce qui eviterait des discussions sans fin;
(f)   le fermier doit effectuer des 1'entree en vigueur du contrat un inventaire des
branchements non conformes (dont il pourrait ensuite assurer la rehabilitation
dans un dMlai a determiner);
(g)   le fermier devrait egalement avoir l'obligation de recenser les anomalies sur
l'ensemble des reseaux de drainage et des egouts et d'etablir un programme de
travaux de mise en conformite, a realiser par appel d'offres.
12.   On trouvera en annexe 2 un projet revise de reglement du service d'assainissement adapte
au cadre contractuel de l'affermage.
C. SITUATION FINANCIERE ET AUDIT
Situation financiere du secteur de 1'eau et de I'assainissement
13.   La mission de suivi de juillet 1995 avait pris acte du deblocage intervenu dans les
relations financieres entre les divers intervenants du secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine, tout en
constatant des progres plus lents dans le secteur de l'assainissement. Les efforts d'apurement des
dettes croisees se sont poursuivis, essentiellement entre le Tresor, la CAA et le FNE:
(a)    Le Tresor a verse I milliard d'arrieres de quote-part d'imp6t foncier au FNE;
(b)   le ministere des Finances, la CAA  et le FNE  sont convenus d'6taler le
remboursement des emprunts echus et non regles par le FNE sur une periode de
dix ans et de reechelonner la dette non echue sur trente ans avec un delai de grace
de dix ans.
14.   Le FNE et la Sodeci ont entame des negociations sur la compensation de leurs dettes
crois6s. Les arrieres dus par le FNE a la Sodeci au titre du contrat d'entretien et d'exploitation
des reseaux s'elevent a 3,5 milliards de FCFA.
Appendix A



- 24 -
Audit
15.   Le FNE avait indique en juillet 1995 que le rapport d'audit sur ses etats financiers de
1'exercice 1994 serait disponible fin septembre 1995 (le rapport d'audit des comptes du projet
etant disponible depuis juin 1995). Ce delai, qui aboutissait dejA A un retard de trois mois par
rapport aux dispositions de l'accord de pret, n'a pas ete respecte. La mission a exprime ses plus
vives preoccupations devant cette situation, d'autant plus que les comptes 1994 ne sont pas
encore arretes. Elle demande A la CAA et au FNE de tout mettre en oeuvre pour transmettre
rapidement ce rapport. Elle rappelle que le defaut de transmission des rapports d'audit peut
conduire A des delais dans le traitement d'autres operations de la Banque.
D. RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
16.   L'annexe 3 decrit le processus de preparation du rapport de fin de projet (RFE) qui doit
8tre termine dans les six mois suivant la date de cloture du pret. La contribution ivoirienne A ce
processus est egalement decrite de maniere specifique au PPEA. Cette contribution comprend:
(a)   I'elaboration d'un plan pour la phase operationnelle du projet (A fournir fin fevrier
1996);
(b)   l'etablissement et la transmission A la Banque avant fin janvier 1996 des
informations sur la realisation du projet qui permettront a la Banque d'elaborer sa
propre contribution au RFE;
(c)   l'elaboration d'un rapport d'evaluation finale du projet, a transmettre a la Banque
avant fin fevrier 1996.
La partie ivoirienne comnimuniquera A la Banque le nom du responsable charge de la preparation
de ces documents
17.   La DCGTx souhaite realiser un document (video et plaquette) sur l'experience du projet.
La mission explorera la possibilite de financer ce document sur les fonds du pret des son retour A
Washington.
E. RESUME DES ACTIONS A ENTREPRENDRE
18.   Les actions A entreprendre ou completer par la partie ivoirienne sont les suivantes:
(a)   achevement des travaux complementaires avant le 31 decembre 1995;
(b)   mise en service de l'emissaire en mer apres installation des equipements de
desodorisation;
(c)   transmission a la Banque du rapport d'audit des comptes 1994 du FNE;
(d)   elaboration de la version finale du cahier des charges de I'affermage et du
reglement d'assainissement;
(e)   transmission A la Banque des informations et rapports relatifs a l'achevement du
projet (janvier-fevrier 1996);
19.   La Banque informera l'Emprunteur des dispositions prises pour la cloture du pret.
Appendix A



- 25 -
Abidjan, le 13 novembre 1995
Richard Verspyck
Banque Mondiale
Annexes (3)
Ampliations:
Primature
Ministere des Finances
Ministere de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme
Ministere de l'Environnement et du Tourisme
Direction et Contr6le des grands Travaux
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Fonds national de l'Eau
Banque europeenne d'Investissement
Appendix A






- 26 -
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Note: the following text reproduces the summaryfindings sections of the completion report
prepared by DCGTx in March 1996.
A. OUTCOME AND MAJOR ISSUES
Two major issues may be outlined at completion of the implementation of the project:
-     some of the Government commitments have been partly executed or even not
executed at all;
-     there were major delays in completing the project, compared to SAR's
estimates.
Execution of the Project
Some of the Government commitments never materialized. They were essentially
related to:
carrying out the pilot on-site sanitation component;
-    enacting the legal and regulatory framework for controlling the discharge of
waste water and for the protection of the environment of the city of Abidjan;
-     updating the Master Plan for the sanitation and environmental protection of
Abidjan.
The initial surveys of the quality of lagoon and coastal waters were carried out in
1993; the monitoring program was then put on hold following the delays in commissioning
the project facilities, and resumed at the beginning of 1996.
The contract for leasing the maintenance and operations of the sanitation and drainage
facilities of Abidjan is being negotiated with Sodeci.
The low rate of execution of several Government commitments may be explained as
follows:
insufficient coordination on the Ivorian side, which was evidenced by the
implementation of the pilot component in Port-Bouet. Although a project
document had been prepared by the Regional Water and Sanitation Group of
the IBRD in cooperation with all parties involved, particularly the
municipality of Port-Bouet, and after getting the Bank's no-objection to the
proposed works and services, no concrete action was taken in the field;
communication difficulties between the executing agency and the Employer
that were compounded by the frequent changes of contracting authority during
the execution of the project. Since the negotiations of the project, five



- 27 -
successive ministries have been granted the contracting authority for this
project.  Those communication difficulties did not allow to clarify the
responsibilities of the various partners and to make a better use of the various
capabilities;
change in the organization and staffing of the project management team within
the executing agency. Staff decreased from five professionals at the beginning
of the project of whom:
one expatriate project manager assigned to the project on a part-time
basis;
two engineers (one expatriate and one Ivorian) in charge of studies and
monitoring, on a full time assignment;
two professionals (one expatriate and one Ivorian) at full time for the
supervision of the works,
to three Ivorian professionals, from 1993 onwards, of whom one project
manager on a part-time basis and two staff assigned at full time to the
supervision of the works.
Those changes did not facilitate the implementation of some studies and contractual
responsibilities.
Completion Delays
The late completion of the physical components is mostly explained by the
procurement and execution delays of the Sonitra contract.
Procurement delays. The works started eighteen months after bid evaluation; the
Bank's no-objection was obtained seven months after bid evaluation. The exceptionally long
delay in getting the Bank's no-objection resulted from the Bank's willingness to come back
on the waiver granted to the Government at negotiations. In addition, one may mention the
usual slowness of the Ivorian procurement procedures, as evidenced in the last CPPR.
Execution delays. The important delays in completing the Sonitra contract mostly
result from:
-     the particular features of the works;
-     the lack of experience of the contractor in installing waste water pumping
stations.
Specific features of the works. Those works were carried out in urban areas and
interfered with utility networks and existing sanitation facilities. This resulted into problems
in accessing illegally-occupied right-of-ways and in relocating pipes, phone lines and power
cables; this also required additional rehabilitation of some sanitation facilities which had
deteriorated since the establishment of the detailed design of the connection of those facilities
to the interceptor. The time required to carry out those activities-which were also delayed
by local political considerations (in releasing the squatted right-of-ways)-had not been
adequately assessed in determining the contractual time of completion; this indeed hindered
the implementation schedule provided by the contractor.
Appendix B



- 28 -
Lack of experience of the contractor. Delays in submitting the execution drawings of
the neighborhood pumping stations were attributable to the lack of specific experience of the
contractor and contributed to extend the completion time. One may remark that Sonitra-
albeit having no prior experience in waste water pumping stations-had been awarded the
contract as the amount of that component amounted to only six percent of the overall
contract. In addition, the local contractor to which Sonitra envisaged to sub-contract the
installation of the pumping equipment lost its best professionals shortly before the start-up.
Responsiveness of the supervision team. In dealing with the contractor's delays, the
supervision team did not consider outlining the specific delays attributable to the particular
features listed above to differentiate them from the delays directly attributable to the
contractor's performance, in order to proceed with contractual remedies and penalties which
might have created incentives for the contractor to speed up work. As regards the delay
observed in producing the execution drawings of the pumping stations, the supervision team
should have instructed the contractor to employ a competent professional with adequate
experience in electromechanical equipment to assist in carrying out that assignment.
Beyond the main factors having hampered the execution of the project and looking at
the delay in commissioning the facilities, one may mention the following circumstances:
-     the insufficient information provided to the population and the absence of an
environmental assessment of the works which proved to be detrimental to the
work progress,
-     the difficult start-up of the collaboration between the executing agency and the
ministerial departments in charge of managing the sanitation facilities which
considerably hindered the issuance of taking-over certificates and the
commissioning of the new facilities, which generated additional operating
costs that had to be financed under the project.
B. RECOMMENDATIONS
The Abidjan Environmental Protection Project indeed allowed to complete the
primary network for collecting and discharging Abidjan's waste water, which would facilitate
further programs of connections to the main interceptor; however, to fully achieve the project
objective of eliminating in due time any discharge of effluents in the lagoon, the following
actions must be taken:
Short-term actions:
* Technical actions:
-     to finalize and sign the lease contract being negotiated with Sodeci;
-     in cooperation with Sodeci, to launch a public awareness campaign to
convince the population to value their sanitation facilities and to hook up to
them adequately;
-     to carry out works to bring the sanitation and drainage networks up to
standards to optimize their use and eliminate all discharge of waste water into
the lagoon through the drainage facilities;
Appendix B



- 29 -
-     to contemplate carrying out a rehabilitation program for the sanitation and
drainage facilities of Abidjan;
-     to pursue the program monitoring the pollution of lagoon and sea waters, as
well as the control of industrial effluents;
-     to update the master plan for the sanitation and environmental protection of
Abidjan, taking into account the selected and implemented technical solution
for the eventual disposal of waste water;
* Regulatory actions:
-     to establish a sanitation surcharge based on the water consumption of the
water users connected to the sewerage system, in order to finance the costs of:
the lease contract, as regards sewerage operations;
the supervision of the private operator and of the pollution monitoring
program, including the control of industrial effluents;
the works required to bring the networks up to standards;
the rehabilitation program;
possibly, a program of social connections to the sewerage system in
densely populated areas, with a specific contribution of the
beneficiaries.
-     to improve the functioning of the financial channels to and from FNE in order
to:
ensure the financing of the lease contract as regards the drainage
operations;
cover the debt service of the sanitation sub-sector;
possibly, create borrowing opportunities to finance investments for the
sub-sector.
* Medium- and long-term actions:
-     to execute works for connecting the secondary sewerage networks of Banco
and Djibi to the interceptor, in line with the recommendations of the updated
master plan studies which should be carried out in the near future.
In addition, the following recommendations are brought forward to ensure a better
execution of this kind of project:
-     to deepen the environmental assessment studies,
-     to proceed first with abundant information of the general public on project
objectives,
-     to establish a project team  within the executing agency, staffed with
professionals exclusively assigned to project management and to replace
departing staff of the team as needed.
Appendix B



- 30 -
Regarding disbursements procedures, it would be desirable for the EIB to adopt
procedures identical to the ones used for IBRD, namely to open a separate Special Account
dealing with the payment of expenditures below a specific threshold and to use direct
payments by the EIB to the contractor for larger expenditures, without using the Central
Projects Account of CAA.
Appendix B






-31 -
APPENDIX C
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK
E;E   I EIB               Banque Europdenne d'Investissement I European Invest ent Bank
fhix service
no (352) 43 77 04
transmis le:
no d'enregistrement.
centre de d6penses: 052 / PA - ACP I
DF=st_natalre(s)/addressed to
Ml Richard Verspyck
Tt e World Bank
W gst Central Africa Department
W ashington, D.C.
UtIITED STATES
Fs no(s)                     I     Nombre de pages A sulvre/number of pages to foil )w
0O0 1.202.477-6391            /     0
E: p6diteur/sender
J-e n-Philippe de Jong
Rt~marques/notes
Dc ar Sir,
Su"ject: COTE D'IVOIRE - ICR for Abidjan EnvironmentafProtection Project
Wi! thank you for sending us the Implementation Competion Report forthe Abidjan Environmental
Pn otection Project, which was the subject of a co-financing by IBRD and EIB.
Wi! have read the ICR with much interest and do fully support the conclusions of the report.
Yo irs Sincerely.
Da e    04/06/96
EUROPEAN   VESTMENT BANK
-Ph de o_n;  'J. Reversade J,
Appendix C
En .:as de probl6me de r6cepbon, vouUIoz t6l4phoner au  If rocepXon is unsatistactorv, please phone 437-755









IMAGING
Report No:       15.736
Type: IC('



