Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LN-.3                   XV ;c-
Report No. 7D.40-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAE PROTECTION PROJECT
AUGUST 4, 1989
Africa Country Department I, Infrastructure Division
Africa Technical Department, Infrastructure Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



a
C U R R E N C Y         E Q U I V A L E N T S
Currency Unit   =   CFA  Franc (CFAF)  /
USI1.0 0             CFAF 312
CFAF 1          =   USSO.00321
CFAF 1,000      =   USS3.21
F  I  S  C  A    L          Y  E  A    R
Borrower    and  Project-related   Government   Agencies        January 01 to December  31
Soci6t6 de Distribution d'Eau d la C8ta d'Ivolre (SODECI): October 01 to September 30
S        Y S T E H    O F    W E I G H T S    A N D    M E A S U R E S    (M E T R I C)
1 meter (i)                         =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)                  =   264  US gallons
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)   =   0.26 US gallon per capita/por day
A B B R E V I A T I O  N S    A N D    A C R O  N Y M  S
Item                            English    w                              French
AEP         Abidjan Environmental Protection                 Protection de l'environnoment d'Abidjsn
AUA         Abidjan Urban Development Agency                 Atelier d'urbanism  d'Abidjan
CAA         National Public Debt Agency                      Csisse autonome d'amort ssement
CNE         National Environmental Commission                Commission national- de l'nvironnement
CRO         Center for Oceanographic Research                Centre do recherches ocianographiques
DCGTx       Directorate for Large Public Works               Direction et contr8le des grands
travaux (DCGTx)
DE          Water Directorate                                Direction de l'eau
DENT        D;rectorate of Environment, Stardards            Direction de l'-nvironnement, normes
and Technology                                   et technologie
DP          Department of Fisheries                          Direction des pech-s
DPSS        Directorate of Planning A Sanitary               Direction de la planification et des
Statistics                                       statistiques sanitaires
EIB         European Investment Bank                         Banque europ6enn- d'investissement
FNA         National Sanitation   Fund                       Fonds national d'assainissement
FNE         National Water Fund                              Fonds national de l'eau
FNH         National Hydraulics Fund                         Fonds national de I'hydraulique
ICB         International Competitive Bidding                Appel d'offres international
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding                        Appel d'offres local
MDM         Ministry of Defense and Marine                   Minist4re do la d6fense et de la marine
MFE         Ministry of Finance and Economy                  Minist&re do 1'economi- et des finances
MI          Ministry of Industry                             Mintstre, de l'industrie
MSP         Ministry of Public Health                        Minist4re de la sant6 publique
MTPT        Ministry of Public Works & Transport             Minist&re des travaux publics at des
transports
p.s.        per annum                                        par an
SODECI      Ivorian Water Supply Company                     Soci&tA de distribution d'-au de la
C8te d'Ivoire
WASAL       Water and Sanitation Sector                      Pr6t d'sjustwment sectoriel de I'eau et
Adjustment Loan                                  de l'assainissement
/  The CFA Franc is tied to the French franc in the ratio of 1 French franc to 60 CFAF.  The
French franc is currently floating.
AFlIN, AFTIN, july 1989



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECT1ON PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ................................... i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................... ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .............................................. 1
II.  ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENT ....................................... 1
A.  Environmental Situation ...............................1 
B.  Water Supply and Sanitatiou Sector .................... 2
C.  Environmental Protection and Water Pollution Control ..4
D.  Experience with Past Lending .......................... 5
III.   THE  PROJECT ............................................... 6
A.  Concept of the Proposed Project ....................... 6
B.  Project Preparation ................................... 8
C.   Project  Objectives .................................... 8
D.   Project  Description ................................... 8
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................... 10
F.   Cost  Estimates ....................................... 11
G.   Project  Financing .................................... 11
H.   Procurement .......................................... 12
I.   Disbursement ......................................... 13
J.  Environmental Legislation ............................ 14
IV.  IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES .................................... 15
A.  Organizational Improvements .......................... 15
B.  Billing and Collection ............................... 16
C.  Accounting and Auditing .............................. 16
D.  Reporting and Monitoring ............................. 16
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................... 17
A. Past Financial Situation of the Sewerage and
Drainage  Sub-sector ................................. 17
B.   Cost  Recovery ........................................ 18
C.  Future Financial Performance ........................ 19
VI.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION ...................... 20
A.   Least-cost  Solution .................................. 20
B.   Project  Benefits ..................................... 21
C.   Economic  Rate  of  Return .............................. 22
D.  Average Incremental Cost (AIC) ....................... 22
E. Service Level ................                                                            22
F. Urban Poor ................                                                               22
G. Project Risks ................                                                           23
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS ........................... 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
2     Projected Environmental Conditions With and Without Project
3-1   Evolution of Concept of Environmental Protection for Water Resources
3-2   Lagoon and Ocean Pollution Monitoring Program
3-3   Septage Discharge Station
3-4   Cost Estimates
3-5   Financing Plan Components
3-6   Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
3-7   Conditions to be Met by Industries to Obtain Permits Authorizing the
Discharge of Waste Water Effluents
4-1   Implementation Schedule
4-2   Project Monitoring Indicators
5     Financial Analysis
6     Economic Analytis
MAPS: - IBRD No. 20625R - Location of Project Components
- IBRD No. 21012 - Environmental Base Map
This report, prepared by Measrs. S. Calegarl (Sr. Sanitary Engineer, Tack Manager),
and R. Verspyck (Economist), is based on the findings of the pre-appraleal, appraisal
and post-appraisal missions which took place respectively In March and June 1987 and
July 1988. Mr. H. F. Ludwig, Consultant on Environmntal Technology contributed to
this report.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Doc. No.
A.            Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.            Report on Evaluation and Monitoring of Water Pollution Control
Program for Metropolitan Abidjan - by Dr. H.F. Ludwig
November 1982.
D08209
2.            Abidjan Lastewater System - by Prof. E. Pearson-February 1983.    D08210
3.            Missioa Report on Environmental Aspects of AbiLian Third Stage
Environmental Protection Project - by Dr. H.F. Ludwig
March 1987.
D08211
4.            Emissaire en mer - Avant-Projet-Additif by Holfelder-SCET-BNET
Cons. Engineers - 1979.
D08212
5.            Emissaire d'Abidjan. Prerapport by SOGREAH Cons. Engineet            D08213
6.            Assainissement et drainage de la ville d'Abidjan - Rapport
d'enquetes et de mesures in situ - by NEDECO Cons. Engineers
September 1981.                                                      D08214
B.            Selected Working Papers
1.            Cote d'Ivoire P.C.R. - First Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage
Project (Loan No. 1076-IVC) by World Bank - February 1981.
2.            Cote d'Ivoire P.C.R. - Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage
Project (Loan 1577-IVC) by World Bank - March 1986.
C.            General Documents
1.            Decret No. 85-53 du 19 Janvier 1985 portant reorganisation et
attribution de la Commission Nationale de l'Environnement.
2.            Pollution de la Zone Urbaine de la Lagune Ebrie -
by Messrs. J. Pages, P. Dufour and L. Lemasson.                      D08215
3.            Programme de Recherches du Centre de Recherches
Oceanographiques de Cote d'Ivoire - by "Ministere de
l'Education Nationale et de la Recherche Scientifique' and
'Institut francais de recherche scientifique pour
le developpement en cooperation', February 1986.                    D08216
4.            Etude de la pollution bacterienne en lagune Ebrie - by
J. Pages - June 1975.                                                D08217
5.            Notre lagune en peril - by P. Dufour - June 1974.                    D08218
6.            Recherches sur les lagunes ivoiriennes - by J.R. Durand and
M. Skubich.                                                          D08219
7.            Rapport annuel du centre des peches d'Abidjan - by 'Direction
des Peches' - Abidjan - 1985.                                        D08220
8.            Peche industrielle - by 'Direction des Peches' - 1985.               D08221
9.            Environmental impact assessment. Siting and design of
submarine outfalls - by Dr. Russell G. Ludwig - March 1987.         D08222



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Amount:                       US$ 21.9 million
Terms:                        Standard
Co-lender                     European Investment Bank (US$18.0 m equivalent)
Relending Terms:              None
Project Description:          The objectives of the project are to reverse the
deterioration which has taken place in the Abidjan
environment because of the dumping of urban wastes
and industrial effluents into the Ebrie lagoon
by: (a) building waste water disposal facilities;
(b) establishing sound environmental legislation;
(c) monitoring pollution; and 'd) ensuring the
sustainability of the sewerage system. The
project consists of the extension of an existing
interceptor and secondary and tertiary sewers, the
construction of an ocean outfall to bypass the
lagoon and to discharge wastes into the ocean,
studies and training. Project elements comprise
(a) a 6.5 km-long interceptor; (b) 26 km of
sewers; (c) eight pumping stations and ten septage
discharge stations; (d) a sand trap; (e) a
floatable removal plant; (f) a 1.2 km long ocean
outfall/diffuser and (g) a pilot sanitation system
in a slum area. Studies include feasibility and
design of project works, a comprehensive, phased,
master plan of the Abidjan sanitation, drainage
and environmental protection system and design of
a follow-up project. Training for the staff
responsible for implementation of the project
would also be carried out.
Project Benefits and Risks:  The main benefits of the project stem from the
restoration of ecological conditions of the Ebrie
lagoon and from the economic and environmental
losses which would thus be avoided. No technical
risk is associated with the project. A possible
risk would be that delays in the financial
restructuring of the water supply sub-sector would
limit resources available to the sewerage and
drainage sub-sector. This risk, however, is
limited in view r. the impressive commitment
towards the sector adjustment program already
demonstrated by the Government.



- iii -
Estimated Costs
-------  US$ million-
Local     Foreign        Total
Sewers/Ocean Outfall                    7.2         22.4         29.6
Civil Works                             1.0          1.1          2.1
Equipment                               0.5          1.6          2.1
Supervision, Studies and Training       0.2          7.4          8.6
Base Cost (1989 prices)                 9.9         32.5         42.4
Physical Contingencies                  0.9          3.1          4.0
Price    Contingencies                  0.8          2.7          3.5
Total Proiect Cost                     11.6         38.3         49.9
Financing Plan
-------  USS million  -------
Local      Foreign       Total
Proposed IBRD Loan                      7.2         14.7         21.9
EIB Loan                                2.9         15.1         18.0
Government                              0.5          8.5         10.0
Total                                  11.6         38.3         49.9
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Group FY
1990        1991        1992         1993
------------  US$ million  ------------
Annual                      2.0         7.0         10.8          2.1
Cumulative                 2.0          9.0         19.8         21.9
Rate of Return:   15Z
President's Report: Report No. P-5121-IVC
Maps:              IBRD Nos. 20625R, 21012
AFIIN, AFTIN July 1989



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Cote d'Ivoire has a land area of about 333,000 kml and a population
of about 10 million, of which 4.5 million are living in urban centers. The
average urban population growth rate over the period 1975-86 has been about
7Z p.a., while the average national population growth has been 3.5Z p.a. The
high urban growth rate is largely due to substantial immigration from neigh-
boring countries over the last 20 years.
1.02     Abidjan's rapid growth as an industrial, administrative and commer-
cial center has outpaced the substantial progress made to date in developing
its metropolitan sewerage and drainage system.  As a rcsult, the city's
environment has suffered and the lagoon around which it stands is in danger
of irreparable damage from pollution. In addition, the Ivorian water supply
and sanitation sector has been confronted since 1985 to a number of critical
issues that the Government is addressing through the implementation of a
Sectoral Adjustment Program.  This program, which would be supported by a
proposed Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (WASAL),
encompasses in-depth reforms of the regulatory and contractual framework of
the sector, the reformulation of its development strategy and of pricing
policies and a major restructuring of sector's finances.   The present
project, which has been prepared in the context of the sectoral reforms,
primarily aims to restore the environment of Abidjan and especially the
lagoon waterways, one of its most attractive features.
II. ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENT
A. Enviro_nental Situation
2.01     The population of Abidjan has increased from 125,000 inhabitants in
1955 to about two million in 1988. According to the Atelier d'Urbanisme
d'Abid4an (AUA), which is responsible for urban planning and development, the
population would increase to 3.3 million in the year 2000. The city has been
developing along the lines of the 1974 urban master plan which is being
continuously updated in order to cope with actual needs. The Ebrie Lagoon
(see IBRD Map No. 20625) extends over 200 km behind the ocean shore line and
ranges from a few hundred meters in width to several kilometers. The project
is mainly concerned with the part of the lagoon within the city limits, the
coastal line of which spreads over 118 km.
2.02     The Abidjan environment has been deteriorating rapidly in recent
years because of pollution in the lagoon. This pollution originates mainly
from organic sewage and industrial effluents discharged through several
outlets and from septage produced by septic tanks and leaching pits which is
continuously dumped into the lagoon. Most of the country's industries are
concentrated in or near Abidjan due to the presence of abundant ground water
resources, abundant labor, commercial, financial and port facilities. The
industrial sector contributes to pollution in approximately equal amounts to



-2-
that of the population currently served by sewerage house connections
(700,000 equivalent inhabitants).
2.03     Large fish kills have been observed in Bietry Bay as a result of
pollution, and there has been a notable reduction in the total annual catch
in the Abidjan area over the past decade. Although part of this reduction
is attributed to over-fishing, pollution is increasingly playing an important
part and it adversely affects the Government's aquaculture program supported
by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAQ). Therefore, adequate disposal
facilities for both sewage and septage are urgently needed to protect the
environment and preserve the aquatic fauna and reproductive capacity of the
lagoon which acts as a nursery to ocean fish.
2.04     Although high morbidity rates in Abidjan due to waterborne diseases
(mainly typhoid, paratyphoid, dysentery, cholera and hepaLltis) have been
decreasing because of the implementation of the earlier sewerage projects and
because the population is using more and more piped water for drinking
purposes, further possible reductions will not be achieved and a
deterioration is possible unless the contamination of the lagoon waters is
reverted.  Meanwhile, water supply boreholes are drilled in an aquiter
located at a depth of about 60 m where the water table is protected by thick
clay layers.  All boreholes are located in high lying areas, and wells
located in the low lying areas where nitrate contents due to pollution became
rather high have been abandoned. Bathing in the lagoon waters has become
hazardous to public health due to the increasing pollution levels.
2.05     If nothing is done to bypass the lagoon and discharge sewage into
the ocean, it is estimated that virtually all beneficial uses of the lagoon
would be so severely damaged as to be virtually lost within the next
20 years. This would include recreational activities and fishery values in
the lagoon areas adjacent to urban zones, with resulting depreciation of land
values in these zones. Most sections of the Ebri& lagoon in the vicinity of
the urban and industrial zones would become a 'sanitation mess, with foul
odors and visible pollution. In preparation for the project, various relief
alternatives have been considered as summarized in Annex 2.
B. Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Sector Development and Issues
2.06     Substantial investments have been made in the water supply and
sewerage sector by aid donors -- including the Bank -- and commercial lenders
over the past  two decades.   As a result,  the country's water  supply
sub-sector  is  exceptionally  developed.   More  than  130 urban  centers,
including Abidjan, and almost 100 viilages have been equipped with piped
water supply systems and about 13,500 modern rural water points equipped with
hand pumps have been constructed.
2.07     Abidjan has an adequate and well-managed water supply system.
Investment and operating costs are relatively low because of the favorable
location of the city on top of a large deep aquifer. About 60Z of the city's
population is serviced by house connections while most of the remaining
population is serviced by neighborhood sales and by private wells. Public
standpipes provide water to a limited portion of the population. Certain



- 3 -
inhabitants of the fringe areas are supplied with trucked water. All the
piped water is metered, and the amount unaccounted for is only 12z.
According to current forecasts, the Abidjan annual water demand would expand
from the present 55 million ma to about 78 million m3 in the year 2000.
2.08     On the other hand, Abidjan is the only city in the country with a
sewerage and drainage system. While Abidjan has the best system in West
Africa,  it has not kept pace with the rapid growth of the city.  It is
estimated that, at present, only about 35Z of the Abidjan population is
served by the sewerage system which was developed in accordance with a 1972
master plan. Only 602 of the population serviced by water house connections
is also serviced by the sewerage system.   In comparison with the 1975
population and service levels, the total Abidjan population serviced by
sewerage connections has increased by 2102, from 227,000 to 700,000.  The
percentage of the population served by septic tanks and leaching pits was
about 45? in 1988, while the number of inhabitants relying on this sanitation
system increased from 400,000 in 1975 to 900,000 in 1988.  Nevertheless,
about 20? of the population is not provided with any sanitation service.
2.09     Because of the rapid expansion of the water supply sub-sector, a
number  of  issues  had  arisen  which  required  prompt  attention.   The
fragmentation of investment responsibilities and an inappropriate financing
strategy have led to overinvestment and accumulation of debt with short-term
maturities.  The service of this debt peaks over 1987-1990 and induces a
sectoral financial shortfall of some US$80 m over that period. Water tariffs
were set by reference to debt service obligations and reached levels well
above long-run marginal costs. Consumption by industrial and large customers
declined in response to past price increases. In addition, a survey carried
out in 1987 revealed that only 50? of the 13,500 rural water points were in
operation due to inadequate maintenance and lack of villagers' motivation.
2.10     Financial difficulties of the water supply sub-sector had severely
limited the availability of resources for the sewerage sub-sector
(para 5.03).  Therefore, due to the priority being given by the National
Sanitation Fund (FNA) to its debt service obligations, the scope of t'le
contract awarded to Societe de Distribution d'Eau de la COte d'Ivoire
(SODECI), a private Ivorian company, for operating and maintaining the
Abidjan sewerage and drainage system was gradually reduced. SODECI carried
out maintenance tasks on a day-to-day basis and up to the limit of available
funds. Budgetary constraints as well as scattered responsibilities also led
to the closure of pumping stations. As the financial situation deteriorated,
it became more and more difficult to measure the performance of the operator
and to get a clear picture of what should be the real costs of maintaining
the entire system.
Sector Reforms
2.11     To address the above issues, a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Adjustment Loan (WASAL) is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors
for approval during the third quarter of FY90. It comprises, inter alia, the
following actions:
(a) transfer of the investment responsibilities for urban water supply
to SODECI, already in charge of operation and maintenance;



-4 -
(b) transfer of maintenance responsibilities for rural water points to
villagers;
(c)  tendering the operation and ma'ntenance contract for the Abidjan
sewerage and drainage system through LCB;
(d) financial restructuring of the sector;
(e) restructuring of water tariffs and establishment of effective costs
control.
2.12    As  a  first  step  towards  sectoral  adjustment,  the  Government
reshuffled basic responsibilities in the water supply and sanitation sector
in December 1987 as follows:
(a) the technical planning, design and construction of rural water supply
facilities and of urban sewerage and drainage facilities are the
responsibility of the Directorate of Major Works (DCGTx), an
autonomous public body reporting directly to the Presidency;
(b) water resources management and sector regulation are the responsi-
bility of DE, a sub-division of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MTPT); DE is also entrusted the supervision of water
supply and sewerage utilities;
*c)  operation   and  maintenance,   as  well   as   investment-related
responsibilities for urban water supply facilities are assigned to
SODECI under a concession contract; and
(d)  abolition of the National Hydraulics Fund (FNH) and of the FNA,
previously in charge of managing finances of the water supply and the
sanitation sub-sectors, and creation of the National Water Fund
(FINE), an account within the National Public Debt Agency (CAA).
Sector accounting related to debt, capital finance and management
contracts is now the function of the FNE.
2.13    The benefits of the sectoral adjustment program are substantial and
would not only lead to more efficient management of the water supply
sub-sector, but would introduce a more rational approach to the management,
financing and pricing policy of the sewerage and environmental sub-sectors.
Thus, it would reinforce and complement the objectives of the proposed
project.
C. Environmental Protection and Water Pollution Control
2.14    The conservation and protection of the environment is the responsi-
bility of the Minister of Defense and Marine who chairs the National
Environmental Commission (CNE) which includes the following Ministries:
(a)  the Ministry of Defense and Marine (MDM) in charge of lagoon and
marine environment;



(b)  the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MTPT) in charge of urban
environment through DE; and
(c)  the  Ministry  of  Industry  (MI)  in  charge  of  industrial  and
para-industrial environment through the Directorate of Environment,
Standards and Technology (DENT).
2.15    The responsibility of CNE comprises the quality specifications for
waste water effluent as well as the preparation of recommendations concerning
follow-up actions and projects aiming at preserving the environment including
the monitoring of pollution parameters. Monitoring of the lagoon and ocean
pollution is the responsibility of the pollution control laboratory of the
MDM, while the quality of industrial waste waters is the responsibility of
the industrial pollution control laboratory within the MI.   Scientific
research on lagoon ecology is the responsibility of the Center for
Oceanographic Research (CRO) which collaborates with the pollution control
laboratory  of  the  MDH  in monitoring  lagoon  pollution.   Through  its
Directorate of Planning and Sanitary Statistics (DPSS), the Ministry of
Public  Health  (MSP)  monitors  the  data  concerning  water-borne  and
water-related diseases.
2.16    Within the framework of its responsibility for water supply and
sewerage (para 2.12), DE is in charge of controlling the organic waste water
quality and of establishing standards and regulations concerning the
discharge of organic waste water effluent and septage. It also establishes
the criteria for the design and operation of sewerage, drainage and on-site
sanitation systems.
2.17    MI and MTPT have followed different approaches of industrial wastes
control. The latter has developed its policy since 1975 on the assumption
that liquid waste disposal in Abidjan would eventually be achieved through
the execution of a Third Stage Sewerage and Drainage Project, a logical
follow-up to the earlier projects financed by the Bank (paras 2.18-2.21).
MI, on the other hand, deeply concerned by the delay in implementing this
Third Stage Project and by the ever-growing pollution of the lagoon, decided
to address the pollution control issue at the source, by enacting standards
on industrial wastes. This worthwhile effort would, however, cause a number
of industries to install costly decentralized pre-treatment plants.  This
legislation is still at a preparatory stage and will be amended (para 3.24)
to take into account the execution of the AEP Project which will largely
eliminate the need for pre-treatment plants (paras 3.03 and 3.04).
D. Experience with Past Lending
2.18    The Bank supervised the preparation of the original UNDP-financed
water supply and sewerage sector master plan for Abidjan which was carried
out in 1970-72 by the World Health Organization (WHO). Subsequently, the
Bank provided two water supply and two sewerage and drainage loans as well
as financing for sewerage components in two additional loans. The Secondary
Centers Water Supply Project (Loan 1484-IVC for US$16.0 m in 1977) was
successfully completed and the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 2130-IVC for
US$43.0 m in 1982) is over 902 completed.



- 6 -
2.19    The first Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan 1076-IVC for
US$9.0 m in 1975) was satisfactorily completed in 1981. The Second Abidjan
Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan 1577-IVC for US$33.0 m in 1978) was
finished in 1985. Because of the appreciation of the US dollar, part of the
latter loan was not required and about US$6.5 m was cancelled. Approximately
18 km of sewers, drains and related works were built under the First Project
and 69 km under the Second Project. A further 9.7 km of sewers were built
as a small component of the Urban Development Project of 1976. The Bank has
been the sole lender to the sewerage sub-sector in Abidjan.
2.20    The PCRs for the First and Second Projects commented on the substan-
tial reduction in flooding and the removal of health hazards achieved by both
projects. The PCR for the Second Sewerage Project noted that the IRR of the
sewerage component was negative because of less than forecasted growth in
water supply consumption and erratic revisions of the sewerage surcharges.
The PCR stated that the principal project agencies functioned satisfactorily,
although some institutional proposals were delayed and not implemented at
all. SODECI was identified as performing efficiently.
2.21    The PCR concluded that "the diffused institutional structure of the
sector (and similarly the water supply sector) with different entities
responsible for construction, operation and finance worked rather well for
some years, but had recently shown signs of strain, I thus calling for a major
review by the Government and Bank.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Concept of the Proposed Project
3.01    The First and Second Stage Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage projects
were concerned primarily with removing sanitary wastes from the environment
for discharge into the lagoon, and hence, were essentially public health
oriented sanitation projects. The proposed project is essentially concerned
with protecting and restoring the lagoon's ecology and environment, including
important beneficial uses such as fisheries, recreational potentials, and
aesthetic levels. The project is also the third stage in the development of
the Abidjan sewerage system, as it was recognized in the earlier projects
that ultimately the system would have to be extended to discharge into the
ocean. This early identified need has been hastened by the rapid increase
in population of the metropolitan area which is expected to continue in the
future.   Moreover,  the proposed  project  also  takes  into  account  that
considerable industry has developed in Abidjan over the past two decades,
resulting in higher industrial waste flows, which can be expected to increase
steadily in the decades ahead. As a consequence, the total pollution load
by both organic and industrial sources in the year 2000 would be
substantially higher than at present.
3.02    Hence, the overall waste management plan must provide for disposal
of much more complex industrial wastes as well as sanitary wastes.  This
calls for the implementation of an industrial waste permit system as outlined
in para 3.24.   The proposed project also recognizes  that much of the
population cannot be connected to the system in the foreseeable future but



will continue to depend on use of individual building subsurface leaching
pits and septic tanks. Thus, the overall disposal plan must provide for easy
and ready disposal of such septage into the metropolitan sewerage system.
The proposed project focuses attention on many facets of water pollution and
water quality control as well as to sanitation. Annex 3-1 illustrates the
historical evolution of metropolitan sewerage systems into systems which also
control water quality and pollution as part of an overall regional
environmental protection program.
3.03    The project, by changing the pattern for final disposal of wastes to
bypass the Ebri: lagoon and to discharge into the open ocean, will achieve
great environmantal long-term gains for Abidjan. Continuing disposal into
the lagoon will not protect it even with treatment plants because they only
partially remove pollution constituents, especially toxics, as well as
degradable organics and nutrients.  In addition, the ocean outfall system
will protect the marine ecology better than inland treated sewage discharging
into the lagoon. With inland treatment, some of the unremoved toxics and
nutrients will still pass into the ocean after damaging the lagoon and the
shallow nearshore sea ecology, whereas with the ocean outfall, the toxics and
nutrients will bypass the shallow waters which are ecologically sensitive,
and discharge directly into deep ocean water.  The ocean has huge self-
purification and oxygenation capabilities which are so large that the only
significant factors to be taken into account i.n the design of ocean waste
disposal systems are floatables and coliforms. While the technology of ocean
waste disposal is not universally known, it is very well established that
with propre design and monitoring, it will protect marine ecology despite the
relatively much lower treatment level required, as compared to disposal
inland into confined waters. The advantages of open ocean disposal are even
more pronounced for industrial than for sanitary wastes.
3.04    It is a common misconception that effluent treated inland and
discharged to confined inland waters such as rivers or estuaries, or to
nearshore shallow marine waters, protects the ocean from pollution.
Actually, inland treatment plants remove only part of the degradable organics
of the nutrient elements and of the toxics. The bulk of the toxics passing
through most primary and secondary treatment plants, and the residual waste
materials, still quite substantial, then permeate the estuaries and nearshore
shallow marine waters, which are the ecologically sensitive waters, before
passing on to the ocean.   The sea is not only relatively insensitive
ecologically, but contains virtually unlimited oxidation capacity as compared
to the confined or shallow waters. Thus, a system which discharges directly
into the open sea not only bypasses the ecologically sensitive zones but also
takes advantage of the ocean's huge assimilative capacity, and thus is much
superior to inland disposal for protecting the regional ecology. As shown
by extensive research studies carried out by the Southern California Coastal
Water Research Project over the past two decades, discharge of sewage
effluent to unconfined open sea waters, provided floatables are removed, does
r,ot result in deterioration of marine ecology.   In fact,  the organic
degradables and nutrient constituents are valuable food for supporting marine
ecosystems. Furthermore, wastes are presently so small that no pre-treatment
facilities would be needed in the near future.



-8-
B. Project Preparation
3.05    The project was prepared by DCGTx which incorporated in its proposal
the findings, conclusions and cost estimates carried out by two consulting
specialists. They identified in 1982/83 the floatable removal plant and the
ocean outfall as the least cost solution for the disposal of sewage and
septage in lieu of a primary treatment plant and outfall as proposed in the
original 1972 master plan.  One of the above-mentioned specialists also
outlined the pollution monitoring program for the Abidjan lagoon and the
ocean in the vicinity of the outfall (see Annex 3-2). Sampling points and
pollution zo-es are shown in IBRD map No. 21012.  DCGTx has completed the
final design and tender documents of the proposed project facilities,
including the ocean outfall. Tenderiug is under way.
C. Proiect Obiectives
3.06    The primary objective of the project is to reverse the deterioration
which has taken place in the Abidjan environment because of the dumping of
urban wastes and industrial effluents into the Ebrie lagoon. The project
would also set up the appropriate regulatory framework for managing liquid
wastes and environmental protection. This would involve the establishment
of an ocean and lagoon pollution monitoring program (para 3.05), in order to
ensure the sustainability of the waste disposal system and to control
pollution.
D. Project Description
3.07    The main thrust of the project is to extend and expand the existing
Abidjan metropolitan sewerage system so that it bypasses the lagoon and
discharges into the ocean through an outfall/diffuser. The project includes
the following components:
(a) Interceptor and Ocean Outfall-Diffuser
(i)  extension of the existing main north-south interceptor from its
present outfall in the lagoon to the ocean shore, a distance of
6.5 km;
(ii) construction of a sand trap and floatable removal plant south
of Koumassi;
(iii) construction of a 1.2 km long ocean outfall and diffuser system;
(iv) construction of a large pumping station at Koumassi immediately
downstream of the floatable removal plant; and
(v)  provision of about 10 septage discharge stations along the
interceptor.



-9-
(b) Secondary and Tertiary Sewers
Mi)  construction  of  21  km  of  secondary  sewers  between  the
interceptor and residential areas already equipped with tertiary
sewers, including five small pumping stations;
(ii) construction of  6 km of  secondary  sewers  to connect the
industrial  zone to the interceptor,  including three  small
pumping stations; and
(iii) construction of a pilot sanitation system in a city slum area
to obtain appropriate design and construction criteria for
expanding this  approach  into  similar urban areas;   these
criteria would be adopted in the Abidjan sanitation/drainage
environmental protection master plan (para 3.12).
(c) Studies, Supervision, Training and Pollution Monitoring
Interceptor and Ocean Outfall (See maps)
3.08    The present main north-south interceptor terminates at an outfall in
the  lagoon  at the north side of the Charles de Gaulle Bridge.   The
interceptor will be carried across the bridge in a 750 m steel pipe, 1 m in
diameter, which will be installed in an existing box girder previously built
into the bridge for this purpose. The pipe will be connected to an existing
interceptor across Treichville which currently discharges into Bietry Bay.
This interceptor, which will consist of reinforced concrete pipe ranging from
1.0 to 1.8 m in diameter, and 5.8 km in length, will be extended to the ocean
shore near Port-Bouet.   South of Koumassi, a sand trap and a floatable
removal plant for a flow of 3.2 m3/s wil! be built to remove sand, solid
floatables and oil and grease through screens and oil traps.  The effluent
will then be pumped by the Koumassi pumoing station (flow: 3.2 m3/s;
manometric height: 16 m) into the interceptor protruding into the ocean
through a steel outfall/diffuser 1.2 km long and 1.2 m diameter. The first
300 m offshore will be tunnelled so as to protect the outfall from erosion
and avoid wave action in shallow waters. The ocean outfall will be similar
to an oil sealine built for the nearby SIR refinery. Containers and two
trucks will be needed at the floatable removal plant to store and haul away
the waste from the plant.
3.09    About 10 septage discharge stations (see Annex 3-3) will be built
along the north-south interceptor and elsewhere in the sewer collecting
system, so that septage can be readily discharged from pump trucks under
suitable sanitary conditions. These stations are to be available to haulers
of septage without charge, to encourage them to discontinue dumping in the
lagoon. Additional small septage pump trucks would be needed to ensure
adequate service in congested slum areas. Such strengthening can be obtained
without increasing project costa by requiring private truckers to add a few
small pump trucks, otherwise their license for septage dumping would be
suspended.  Cost would be recovered through increased user charges for
septage collection.



- 10 -
Secondary and Tertiary Sewers
3.10    Approximately 21 km of secondary  sewers and five  small pumping
stations are to be constructed to connect existing tertiary sewers in
residential areas inhabited by 140,000 people, to the existing interceptor
and its proposed extension.  Similarly, the industrial zone will also be
connected to the interceptor by about 6 km of sewers along with three small
pumping stations.  Pipe sizes for secondary sewers will vary from 0.2 to
0.8 m in diameter.   Pipe materials will be reinforced concrete, PVC and
ductile iron.
3.11    The  project  also  includes:   (a) the  design,  construction,  and
provision for operating and monitoring of a selected pilot demonstration
sanitation sub-project which will achieve 1002 excreta management in a pilot
slum area; it will consist of appropriate individual building subsurface
disposal systems, with the objective of developing appropriate design/cost
criteria for expanding this approach, when needed, throughout the
metropolitan area; and (b) a provision for equipment and chemicals for the
pollution monitoring program.
Studies, Supervision, Training and Pollution Monitoring
3.12    The new sanitation/drainage/environmental protection master plan will
replace the 1972 sewerage and drainage master plan which has to be entirely
changed to reflect the works carried out to date, the rapid growth of the
city since 1972 and the forecast growth for the next two decades. The plan
will provide the basis for the feasibility studies and designs to meet the
city's needs up to the year 2010.
3.13    Consulting services for final project design, tender documents and
supervision of the works and related training, and final design and tender
documents for a follow-up project and the feasibility study/master plan of
the sanitation/drainage/environmental protection system would be provided by
the Government implementing agency, DCGTx. Monitoring of lagoon and ocean
pollution parameters would be carried out by the pollution control laboratory
of the MDM and the CRO.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.14    The Bank has been closely associated with the development of the
water supply and sewerage sector since the early 1970s and was to date the
only lender in the sewerage sub-sector in Abidjan. However, the European
Investment Bank (EIB) will ;oin the Bank in co-financing the proposed
project. The Bank collaborated closely with the UNDP master plan study which
was the basis for the Bank-funded First and Second Abidjan Sewerage and
Drainage projects that established the sub-sector's institutional framework
and financial policy. One of the main recommendations of the master plan
study concerning the protection of the Abidjan environment was that
ultimately sewage should be discharged into the ocean through an outfall.
Recognizing the urgent need for the adequate disposal of waste water, the
Government has requested Bank financing to complete the implementation of the
master plan.   In addition,  the_ implementation of the proposed project
required substantial institutional, regulatory and financial reforms of the
water and sewerage sector which are contemplated in the WASAL, and which were



- 11 -
defined through an intensive policy dialogue between the Government and the
Bank.
F. Cost Estimates
3.15    The total project cost is estimated at CFAF 15.57 billion (US$49.9 m
equivalent at the exchange rate of US$1 - CFAF 312) of which about US$38.3 m
equivalent or approximately 77Z would be in foreign exchange. Cost estimates
are based on June 1989 unit prices gathered from recently awarded contracts
and suppliers' offers.
3.16    Physical contingencies have been estimated at 92 of the base cost.
Price contingencies, estimated at 81 of the base cost, have been applied as
follows, assuming that the project is implemented between CY1990 and
CY1992 -- FY90 to FY93 -- and assuming the following annual percentage price
escalations:
FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93
Domestic        -0.5       1.6        1.6        2.0
Foreign          1.5       3.6        3.6        3.6
3.17    Estimated  project  costs  are  summarized  in the  following  table.
Detailed project estimates are shown in Annex 3-4.
Cost Entimates
FAF million ----    X of    ---- USS mIllion ----
Component                 Foreign  Local  Total  Base Cost  Foreign Local Total
A. Completion of Interceptor, Sand
Trap, Floatable Removal Plant,
Pumping Station and Ocean Outfall  6,530  1,520  7,060    sa        17.7   4.9   22.6
S. Secondary A Tertiary Sewers,
Pilot On-site Sanitation and
Equipment/Chemicals for Pollution
Control                           2,800  1,150  8,460    26         7.4   3.7   11.1
C. Supervision, Studies, Training and   2.300    420  2.720    21      7.4   1.3    8.7
Pollution Control
Total Base Costs                 10,130  8,090 13,820    100       32.5   9.9   42.4
Total Physical Contingencies       960    290  1,260       9        3.1   0.9    4.0
Total Price   Contingencle        8S0    260  1.100       8        2.7   0.8    3.6
Total Project Costs              11.940  38,630 15.570    117      38.3  11.6   49.9
Percent                            77X    23X  1OOX      --         77%   23%   100%
G. Project Financing
3.18    The project cost of CFAF 15.57 billion (US$49.9 million equivalent)
would be financed by a Bank loan, a loan from the EIB -- which carried out
its appraisal in parallel with the Bank -- and a Government contribution in
the following ratio:



- 12 -
Prolect Financing Plan
- Million -     X of
CFAF   USt   Prolect Costs          Landina Terms
ISRD Loan          6 ,60  21.9       43.9          20 yr.., Including C yra. of grace
at tho standard variable rate.
EIS Loan           5,600  16.0      3U.0           16 yr.. Including a yrs. of grace
at CX.
Cov. Contribution   ,140  10.0       20.1
TOTAL             156570  49.9      100.0
_
The supply and installation of the ocean outfallldiffuser, pumping station,
floatable removal plant and equipment would be funded by EIB, while the
supply and installation of the interceptor and sewers would be funded by the
Bank. IBRD and EIB would lend to the Government. All consulting services,
training and pollution monitoring would be funded out of the Government's
contribution. Annex 3-5 gives the details of components to be funded by
co-financiers and Government. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the EIB loan.
H. Procurement
3.19    The main interceptor, secondary and tertiary sewers, related works,
and equipment will be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. Eligible domestic manufacturers of sewer pipes and equipment would
be afforded a preference up to 15Z or the applicable customs duties,
whichever is less, for goods under ICB procurement. The procurement of civil
works and of the equipment would be carried out by ICB and the procurement
of vehicles by LCB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.20    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table, where
figures in single and double parentheses are the respective amounts financed
by IBRD and EIB.  Small contracts for the purchase of equipment and vehicles,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each (totalling US$400,000 in
aggregate) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank in which foreign bidders would have an
opportunity to participate. The lower limit for prior review of tenders by
the Bank is US$50,000 for equipment and US$100,000 for civil works.



- 13 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Project Element                   ICB      LCB      Other    Total Cost
Sewers/Ocean Outfall
-- Supply and Installation of Sewers       (21.1)      --       --         (21.1)
(( 1.3))    __       __        (( 1.3))
-- Supply and Installation of Ocean       ((12.2))    --        --        ((12.2))
Outfall
Civil Works
-- Floatables Removal Plant               (( 0.4))    --        --        (( 0.4))
-- Pumping Stations                       (( 0.6))    --        --        (( 0.6))
( 0.2)     --        --         ( 0.2)
-- Other                                  (( 1.1))  (( 0.3))   __         (( 1.4))
( 0.1)     __        __         ( 0.1)
Supply and Installation of Equipment,
Vehicles
-- Floatables Removal Plant               (( 0.4))    __        __        (( 0.4))
-- Pumping Stations                       (( 1.6))    --        --        (( 1.6))
( 0.3)     --        --        ( 0.3)
--Vehicles                                   --      (0.1)   __           (0.1)
-- Other                                     --      (( 0.1))   __        (( 0.1))
Consulting Services, Training and
Pollution Monitoring                        (0.1)      __        __         ( 0.1)
--       --       10.0         10.0
TOTALS
IBRD Loan                                 (21.8)       (0.1)    __         (21.9)
EIB  Loan                                ((17.6))    ((0.4))              ((18.0))
Gov. Contribution                             --       --       10.0        10.0
I. Disbursement
3.21     The loan proceeds would be disbursed as shown in the following
table on the basis of full documentation, except for eligible expenditures
with a value below US$50,000 which would be covered by statements of
expenditures. The documentation for these statements would be available for
review at the Project Unit in DCGTx. Seventy-seven percent of the loan would
be disbursed against foreign exchange expenditures.



- 14 -
Bank Loan Disbursement Catecories /
(USS million)
Estimated Cost
Estimated    of Components  Allocated    X of Expenditures
Category                 Total Cost    Funded by Bank Ant. of Loan Financed By Loan
1. Sup. A Install, ot Sewers/Outfall   84.6       20.4       20.4          100
II. Civil Works (Stations)          2.7            0.2         0.2          100
III. On-Site Sanitation Componont    0.1            0.1         0.1          100
IV. Equipment-Cheicals-Vohicles     2.4            0.1         0.1          100
V. Consulting Services, Training   10.1            0.1        0.1          100
and Pollution Monitoring
VI. Unallocated                     --             1.0        1.0           100
TOTAL    .01                   49.9           21.9       21.9           100
3.22     In order to expedite disbursements, agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government will establish a Special Account in the CAA
in the amount of CFAF 100 million to be funded by the Bank. This account
will be used to prefinance eligible expenditures under the Bank loan and will
be replenished on the basis of standard Bank procedures. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted to the Bank on dates
specified by the Bank. An estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex
3-6.  Given DCGTx's experience with project implementation, the standard
profile of eight years for this type of project has been reduced to four
years.  This is in line with experience gained under the Second Abidjan
Sewerage and Drainage Loan which was disbursed over 4.5 years, except for the
sewerage house connections which delayed disbursements by 15 months.
3.23     The risks of delaying the project implementation and of having to
finance  a higher  proportion of project  costs would be borne  by  the
Government.   Assuming that construction begins  on January 1, 1990,  the
physical works would be completed by December 31, 1992.  The closing date
would be December 31, 1993.
J. Environmental Legislation
3.24     An important element of the proposed project is the establishment,
by the CNE of an effective permit system for controlling waste discharges
from all industries producing significant industrial liquid and solid
wastes. Each such permit would spell out the constraints for the particular
industry, including requirements for in-plant treatment, before the wastes
may be discharged, whether into the metropolitan sewerage system or the
environment. Experience in the USA, especially of the Los Angeles County
Sanitation Districts, has shown that the privilege for an industry to
discharge waste effluent into a municipal sewer system discharging to the
ocean results in general in savings to the industry of about half of the
industry's total costs for disposing of its liquid industrial wastes on its
own.  Conditions to be met by industries to obtain permits authorizing the
discharge of waste water effluent into the metropolitan sewerage system are
listed  in Annex  3-7.   Agreement was  reached during negotiations  that
Government will enforce the new legislation for industrial permits upon
completion of project works, so that the sewerage system can handle approved
wastes. Agreement was reached during negotiations that Government would
enforce new legislation compelling companies and individuals now dumping
septage into the lagoon to dump it into the septage discharge stations
provided for that purpose upon completion of project works (para 3.09). The



- 15 -
above-mentioned new legislation provides for fines and penalties for
non-compliance.
IV. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Organizational Improvements
Project Management
4.01     The proposed project is the logical extension of the First and
Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage projects, both financed by the Bank.
The major difference, however, is that the bulk of investment goes towards
correcting the environmental damage caused by discharging waste waters to the
Abidjan lagoon. 'ihe resulting benefits, in terms of doing it now, rather
than in 10 or 15 years, are substantial. In general, the proposed project
transcends individual sectors as virtually all of them, in some way or the
other, benefit from it. This is the principal reason behind Government's
decision to assign the project to the MDM rather than, as with traditional
sewerage projects, to the MTPT.  As mentioned in para 2.12, the physical
components of the proposed project will be implemented by DCGTx.   The
implementation schedule is given in Annex 4-1. DCGTx has already established
a Project Unit which will supervise construction.
Regulatory Agencies
4.02     Pollution control  laboratories  of MDM,  MI,  MTPT  and CRO are
adequately staffed and equipped to carry out their present regulatory and
enforcement  duties.   To avoid having budgetary constraints  hamper  the
implementation of the program,  equipment and supplies required for its
execution would be financed by the proposed loan (para 3.13). Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the pollution control laboratory of MDM and
CRO would carry out the ocean and lagoon pollution monitoring program
starting no later than June 30, 1990.
Operation and Maintenance
4.03     The principle of using a private company to operate and maintain the
Abidjan Sewerage system is well-grounded and the recent tendering of the
maintenance contract eliminated uncertainties on the real cost of
comprehensive maintenance (para 2.10). SODECI was awarded the contract after
LCB.  Unit prices were reduced by 35Z through competitive bidding, which
would allow to extend the scope of the contract to the entire system. It was
agreed during negotiations that the operation and maintenance of the project
works will be entrusted to a private operator in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Training
4.04     The expanded sewerage  system includes pumping stations and an
extended interceptor which are not different from present sewerage
facilities.  Therefore, no training is needed for the operating utility.
Concerning sand traps, floatable removal plant and ocean outfall/diffuser,
appropriate guidelines and training for staff of the operating utility would
be carried out by the supplier/installer and included in its contract.



- 16 -
During the execution of the project, in-house training will be provided
within DCGTx by expatriate specialists to Ivorian engineers and technicians
in design and supervision of project works.  The estimated cost of such
in-house training is CFAF 150 million and is included in the Government's
contribution.
B. Billing and Collection
4.05     FNE's resources comprise the surcharge on water bills and the
sanitation tax leviel in Abidjan.  Present arrangements under which SODECI
bills and collects the water charges prove to be quite satisfactory as
evidenced by the low level of unaccounted-for water (para. 2.07) and the high
collection rate -- 98Z -- on the amounts billed to private customers.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that SODECI will continue
collecting the surcharge that is part of the water bills and transfer these
amounts to FNE in accordance with the provisions of the concession contract,
i.e. within five weeks of the collection. Agreement was also obtained that
the Treasury will promptly transfer the proceeds of the sanitation tax to
FNE.
C. Accounting and Auditing
4.06     The financial picture of the sewerage and drainage sub-sector was
distorted by the accounting practices of FNA. Revenues were credited only
as collected, not as billed; operation and maintenance expenditures were
capitalized while grants were credited as current revenue. FNA wrote down
and revalued fixed assets so as to keep their value equal to outstanding loan
debt. Important steps towards a better knowledge of the financial situation
has recently been made with (i) the completion, under Bank financing, of an
inventory of the assets of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system; and (ii)
the preliminary inventory of sectoral cross-debts.  Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the inventory of assets will be updated, under
DCGTx's supervision.
4.07     The abolition of FNA and FNH constituted an important component of
the financial and institutional restructuring contemplated in the sectoral
adjustment program. The new FNE has been created as an account within CAA
with responsibilities strictly limited to (i) servicing the debt of the
entire sector, and (ii) payment of the maintenance contract for the Abidjan
sewerage and drainage system. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
auditors acceptable to the Bank will audit FNE's accounts and the Special
Account at the end of each fiscal year. In addition and in accordance with
the provisions of the loan agreement of the Second Water Supply Project (Ln.
2130-IVC), SODECI has to submit each year statements of its auditor that the
amounts of surcharges billed and collected accurately reflect meter readings
and the correct rate schedule.
D. Reporting and Monitoring
4.08     DCGTx will report quarterly on the progress of project implementa-
tion and monitor the institution building achievements of the project. DCGTx
will also prepare the Project Completion Report. Project monitoring indica-
tors are described in Annex 4-2.



- 17 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Financial Situation of the Sewerage and Drainage Sub-sector
5.01     The principle of a financially autonomous sewerage and drainage
sub-sector was established under the First Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage
Project and enforced during the following projects. Thus revenues of the
sub-sector comprised (i) the sanitation tax, an additional component to the
property tax collected by the Treasury and (ii) the sewerage surcharge billed
and collected by SODECI as a part of the water bill. The sanitation tax was
only levied in Abidjan while 90Z of sewerage surcharge proceeds came from
Abidjan water customers.   Both  resources were  established in 1975   in
conjunction with the creacion of FNA, in order to cover (i) sub-sector's
operating expenditures, including administrative costs of FNA and the cost
of the SODECI contract for 0 & M; (ii) FNA's debt service obligations and
(iii) a part of the sub-sector's investment expenditures, as stipulated in
the financial covenants of Loan 1577-IVC.   The following analysis of the
sub-sector's financial situation relates to the past performance of FNA, in
charge of the financial management of the sub-sector until its abolition in
December 1987 (para 2.11).
5.02     As stated in para 4.06, FNA's financial performance was obscured by
its accounting practices. However, salient features of FNA's accounts for
the period 1983-1987 are shown in the following table, along with forecasts
for the same period provided in the SAR of the Second Abidjan Sewerage and
Drainage Project. The latter forecasts assumed that a Third Abidjan Sewerage
Project would be completed in 1985 and that urban population, housing
construction and water consumption would grow at a pace similar to the one
observed in the seventies. Those expectations never materialized. The water
consumption of Abidjan in 1986 was roughly equal to the consumption of 1980
and the ambitious public housing programs were drastically reduced.
Past Financial Performance of FNA - Salient Features  Actual
--------------- Actual  ---------- --Previous   an X of
1988 1984 1985 1986 1987 Total Estimates / estimates
---------------- CFAF mlII1on - ------------- ---------
Total revenues              4806 5842 8476 2804 4105 21081   46098    47X
O/w:
. Sanitation tax            2680 4103 1964 1662 2994 18208   20191    8SX
Sewerage surcharge        1817 1884 1026  888  749  5868   24902    24X
Current oxpendituros        1001  986  919  862  714  4422   14680    8o0
o/w: SODECI contract         621  6e 6688  616  680  2946   11262    26X
Debt sorvice                1664 1864 1749 1768 1478  7420   189dl    44X
Investment expendituros     8988 1846 1661  289  801  2866   64074    12X
Loans ralisd                1687  608  488   88   20  2846   87950    8a
Capital grants               890  474   42    0    0  1406   11490    12X
Cash increase               (1400) 865 2128  802  (889) 1001     200
Cash at end of year         2496 2861 4984 5786 4897             500
Debt service coverago (ti mes)   2.4  2.6  1.6  1.1  2.8   2.0   1.8   128!
Self-financing ratio          -8X  41! 199X 842! -208X   50X      15X  882X
1/ Financial forecasts for 1988-1987 provided in the SAM of Loan 1677-5VC.



- 18 -
5.03     As shown in the above table, the financial strategy followed by FNA
during the recent years resulted in building a plethoric cash cushion and in
limiting the operating expenditures to a level inconsistent with adequate
maintenance. Moreover, only 60Z of these operating expenditures were devoted
to the SODECI contract, the balance financing administrative costs of FNA and
SETU, the land development agency which was in charge of supervising the
SODECI  contract  until  1986.   The  financial  covenants  regarding  the
self-financing ratio was indeed complied with, but in a context where
investments have been severely reduced.
5.04     Revenues of the sub-sector proved to be volatile.  The registration
of the sanitation tax in FNA's accounts reflected amounts collected by the
Treasury and transferred to FNA.  Payments of arrears in 1984 and 1987
explain the erratic variations of the amounts transferred. In addition, the
computerization of the property assessments and taxes, which was financed by
Loan 2130-IVC, allowed to improve the collection rate. On the other hand,
the sewerage surcharge was subjected to spasmodic revisions as follows:
------- Sewerage Surcharge (CFAF/3) -------
Date                 Abidlan      Elsewhero   National Average
Oct. 01, 1980            87.1           8.4          27.0
Apr. 01, 1984             4.8           3.8           4.2
Oct. 01, 1984            16.8           4.6          12.8
(last rovision)
These uneven movements  reflect  the need to make  room  for substantial
increases in the water surcharge transferred to FNH without increasing the
overall water rate beyond affordable limits, FNA being judged to be in a much
better financial situation than its sister fund for water supply (FNH) and
thus needing a smaller share of the total revenue.
5.05     In retrospect, it appears that the establishment of two entities,
FNH and FNA, to handle separately the financial management of water supply
systems and of sewerage/drainage systems entailed major shortcomings by:
(a)   preventing  the  provision,  on  a continuous  basis,  of  a clear
financial picture of the sector as a whole, this being compounded
by the unorthodox accounting practices of the funds; and
(b)   depriving  the  sector of  implementing  flexible  cash management
mechanisms which would have helped to solve, at least partially,
the short-term financial problems of FNH.
B.  Cost Recovery
5.06     The  Government  has  reassessed  and  reformulated  the  financing
strategy and cost recovery policies of the entire water supply and sanitation
sector (para 2.11), in order: (i) to restore the financial equilibrium which
existed until the 1980s when adverse macroeconomic conditions and inadequate
pricing began to reduce water consumption; and (ii) to alleviate the
financial burden on urban water customers, paying charges well above marginal
costs. To that erfect, water tariffs were decreased and an action plan for
the financial restructuring of the sector has been prepared, including the
consolidation of sectoral arrears and the settlement of cross-debts.



- 19 -
5.07     Following the abolition of FNH and FNA and the creation of FNE, the
two surcharges levied on water bills, namely the water surcharge and the
sewerage surcharge have been merged into one.   In order to ensure the
adequate coverage of the financial needs of the sewerage and drainage
sub-sector, agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)   the proceeds of the sanitation tax will continue to be earmarked as
a resource of PNE; and
(b)   a part of the new surcharge, equivalent to the annual service
requirements of the debt previously managed by FNA will be allocated
to the sub-sector.
The Government has recognized that the proposed project would generate
externalities and benefit all sectors. It proposed accordingly that capital
costs associated with environmental protection works, namely the ocean
outfall and ancillary equipments financed by the EIB loan, would be supported
by the National Budget.  On the other hand, capital costs associated with
inland sewerage works would be recovered from revenues of the sub-sector.
5.08     Therefcre, it was agreed during negotiations that annual revenues
of the sub-sector, including budgetary support to the debt service of the
EIB loan, will be at least equivalent to the annual operating costs,
including a provision for depreciation calculated on revalued assets in
service of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system. On an annual basis, the
latter provision is equivalent to the sum of: (i) debt service requirements,
including  the  proposed  loan  and  the  EIB  loan;  (ii)  working  capital
requirements; and (iii) renewal costs of existing sewerage and drainage
assets.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that the assets of the
Abidjan sewerage and drainage system will be annually revalued on a notional
basis under DCGTx's supervision.
C. Future Financial Performance
5.09     Detailed forecasts of projected borrowing and debt service, income,
funds flow and balance sheet statements for the sewerage and drainage
sub-sector operations are shown in Tables 5-1 to 5.4 of Annex 5.  Salient
features of future finances are presented below.



- 20 -
Sewerage and !rainape Sub-Sector - Future Finances
(Alternate YTears)
Year ending December 81         1988    1990    1992    1994    1996
---------------- CFAF million ------------
Sanitation tax                  2576    2884    3l86    3717    4336
Allocated surcharge             1436    1836    1227    1118       460
Support to Environmental Component    0   69      238      689     646
Other                            241     276      SOS      u1s     816
Total Revenues            4M       IM      4969    gmi    M74i
Cash Operating Expenditures      820    1621    1896    2046    2179
Depreciation                    2632    2691    2942    3224    3621
Total Operating Costs     Fl      iflT     4839    5270    g7m
Operating Ratio (X)              79%     91X      98%      90X     99%
Other Financial Requirements:
.Increase in Working Capital    4363      76 5     :      144      178
.Debt service                   1436    1606 5    N.    2465    1869
.Renewal Expendituros             0      921      gfld    1072    1448
Sub-total                  3116    29E0     ;A       3671    8490
Annual Cash Increase          (2367)      513      26      122      77
Accumulated Cash (end year)     2530    4604    4763    4913    4886
Net plant in service           60214   67976   67637   69467   71211
Annual debt aerv0c coverage      2.4     2.0      1.6      1.5     1.9
(times)
5.10    Sanitation tax revenues have been assumed to grow on average at an
annual rate of 6.7Z reflecting modest increases in the collection ratio,
growth of the tax base and inflation adjustments.  The allocated part of the
surcharge is equivalent to the debt service requirements of loans previously
managed by FNA (para 5.07) from 1988 onwards. Operating expenditures have
been adjusted in 1990 to ensure an adequate maintenance of the sewerage and
drainage systems, estimated to cost CFAF 1500 million to be compared to CFAF
660 million  allocated  in  1987  to  the previous  SODECI  contract.   Other
assumptions for projections are listed in Annex 5.
5.11    The 1972 Abidjan sewerage and drainage master plan being obsolete,
a comprehensive master plan for the Abidjan Sanitation, Drainage and Environ-
mental Protection system will be carried out during the execution of the
proposed project. No provision has been made for future investments of the
sub-sector after 1992.   Therefore part of the cash available beyond that
year, i.e. around CFAF 4700 million, could be used to finance a part of the
future investment program, to be identified through the future master plan.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Least-cost Solution
6.01    While the ocean outfall is the only solution which would adequately
protect the lagoon and marine ecology (paras 3.03 and 3.04), the ocean
disposal of wastes has also proved to be the most economic solution as
compared to inland treatment alternatives. Such alternatives would either
consume huge tracts of valuable urban land (lagoons or oxidation ponds) or
incur considerable operating costs such as the need for biological treatment
plants.



- 21 -
6.02    The proposed project would also provide Abidjan industries with a
least-cost alternative for liquid waste disposal.  Facing the increasing
pollution of the lagoon and delays in implementation of a safe discharge of
industrial wastes, the HI prepared strict regulations and pollution standards
(para 2.17) which would be met through the installations of costly
decentralized pre-treatment facilities.  (Operating costs of such facilities
are in the range of CFAF 200/ms.) By permitting industries -- excepted those
generating toxic and hazardous wastes -- to discharge directly into the
interceptor, ocean disposal would allow potential cost savings to accrue to
the majority of industrial enterprises.
B. Project Benefits
6.03    The primary benefits of the project would result from the restoration
of ecological conditions of the Ebrie lagoon and from the economic and
environmental  losses which would  thus  be  avoided.   Moreover,  whereas
conventional sewerage projects can only provide adequate sanitation to the
affluent part of the population who may afford a sewer connection, the AEP
by offering appropriate disposal of septage will generate health benefits for
all Abidjan residents and will gradually eliminate health hazards (para 2.04)
associated with polluted lagoon waters either through bathing and other
recreational activities or through fish consumption.
6.04    Substantial  longer-term  benefits  would  also  accrue  from  the
establishment of a sound legal framework, the enforcement of which would be
simplified by the project concept and warranted by the implementation of the
pollution monitoring program. As regards operation and maintenance, the
overall performance of the sewerage system would be improved. First, the
use of existing facilities will be maximized through the completion of the
main interceptor and the connection of scattered tertiary networks. Second,
availability of guaranteed financial resources and costs savings will permit
the sewerage system to be properly maintained.
6.05    Only a part of the project's benefits are quantifiable.  Estimates
can be calculated in order of magnitude for:  (a) housing property values
that may be preserved if. and only if, the land in the vicinity of the lagoon
retains its attractiveness for developers; and (b) improvement in fisheries
output resulting from the restoration of the ecological conditions in the
lagoon. Satisfactory proxies for health benefits and for economic benefits
stemming from the potential increase in recreational areas can not be found
at this stage.
6.06    The  negative  impact  of pollution  of  the  lagoon  on  the  land
development process is already evident in the Marcory Bay area and, in the
absence of the project, it would quickly extend to other areas. AUA has
identified 206 ha of existing housing properties and 303 ha of land suitable
for residential development in the immediate vicinity of the lagoon which
would be subjected to depreciation if the pollution of the lagoon continues
to grow at the current pace. Using conservative assumptions, the present
value of the potential losses of local values in the concerned areas is
estimated at CFAF 13.7 billion. (Detailed calculations are given in Annex
6). According to the estimates of the Directorate of Fisheries and of CRO,
other quantifiable benefits will accrue from increased fishing in the
lagoon.  After twenty years,  fish catching would return to the levels
observed in the seventies (3,800 metric tons per year as compared to the
present 2,500 metric tons).  Shrimp, the most valuable catch, is also the



- 22 -
most endangered species as nurseries are located in the lagoon, and will
completely disappear in the next 20 years if wastes continue to be discharged
into it. Improvement in water quality would allow the shrimp catch to reach
an annual output of some 1,300 metric tons in the year 2010. The present
value of increased fisheries output, including shrimp, is estimated at
CFAF 5.2 billion.
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.07    Calculations are carried out over a 40-year period corresponding to
the  useful  life  of  the major  physical  components.   Using  the  above
assumptions, the present value of total project costs amounts to
CFAF 11.3 billion  and  the  present  value   of  project  benefits   to
CFAF 19.0 billion. The economic rate of return of the project is estimated
at 15Z (see Annex 6).
Sensitivity Analysis
6.08    Should capital and operation and maintenance costs both increase by
20Z, the ERR would still be 14Z.  The impact of a slower than expected
recovery of the lagoon ecological conditions has also been tested.   A
reduction by 75Z of the growth rate of fisheries output would result in an
ERR of 14Z.  Finally, a decrease by 50? of property value benefits would
reduce the ERR to 11Z.
D. Average Incremental Cost (AIC)
6.09    AIC calculations (Annex 6) have to take into account the substantial
increase of effluent entering the system resulting from the connection of the
Vridi industrial zone and of the various tertiary networks not linked
currently to the main interceptor.  The average incremental cost of the
project is thus estimated to be CFAF 38/n3 of consumed water at a discount
rate of 10. The long-term marginal cost of water being estimated to about
CFAF 220/ei, the average water rate of CFAF 251/rn compares with the marginal
cost of supplying and disposing of water.
E. Service Level
6.10    In terms of population serviced, the proposed project would provide
an adequate disposal of septage for about 900,000 people now relying on
septic tanks and leaching pits and serve through house connections another
140,000 inhabitants, on top of the 700,000 serviced today by sewerage
connections.
F. Urban Poor
6.11    Twenty percent of the Abidjan population is below the urban poverty
threshold estimated at US$375 or CFAF 119,700 in 1986.  Current forecasts
show that 100,000 households corresponding to some 550,000 people would be
below the relative poverty threshold in 1992. Except in densely populated
areas of Treichville, the urban poor rely on leaching pits and septic tanks
for excreta disposal.   Therefore,  they will benefit  from the critical
improvement in septic pumping services, contemplated in the project,
particularly through the pilot sanitation sub-project in a slum area
(para 3.11), which will establish, inter alia, design/cost criteria and
affordable charges for appropriate truck services.



- 23 -
6.12    As the project will allow safe disposal of all domestic wastes,
whatever the household sanitation mode, the whole population of Abidjan would
benefit from a part of the physical facilities such as the outfall/diffuser,
sand  trap,  floatable  removal  plant  and  pumping  station.   Sewers  and
interceptor will essentially serve the populations connected to the sewerage
network. Thus, about US$3.4 m, which represents 9? of the physical component
of the proposed project, are poverty lending exclusively benefitting the
poor.
G. Project Risks
6.13    The project would not pose specific technical risks.  Construction
of an oil sealine in the same area as planned for the outfall has proven
successful.   Execution  of  other  physical  components  is  considered
straightforward. Operation and maintenance of project works would be carried
out by a private operator. A possible risk could be that delays in the
financial restructuring of the water supply sub-sector would limit resources
available to the sewerage and drainage sub-sector. This risk, however, is
limited in view of the impressive commitment towards the sector adjustment
program already demonstrated by the Government.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
7.01    During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following:
(a)  Government will  enforce  new  legislation  concerning  permits  of
discharge of industrial liquid wastes so that the sewerage system
can handle approved wastes upon completion of project works; the new
legislation should provide for fines and penalties for non-compliance
(para 3.24);
(b)  Government will enforce new legislation compelling companies and
individuals now dumping septage into the lagoon to dump it into the
septage discharge stations provided for that purpose, upon completion
of project works; this legislation should provide for fines and
penalties for non-compliance (para 3.24) ;
(c) the pollution control laboratory of MDM and CRO will carry out the
ocean and lagoon monitoring program starting no later than June 30,
1990 (para 4.02);
(d) the operation and maintenance of the project works will be entrusted
to a private operator in. accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank (para 4.03);
(e) SODECI will collect the water surcharge as part of the water bills
and promptly transfer these amounts to PNE in accordance with the
provisions of the concession contract; the Treasury will promptly
transfer the proceeds of the sanitation tax to FNE (para 4.05);
(f) the inventory of assets of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system
will be updated and revalued on a notional basis under DCGTx's
supervision (paras 4.06 and 5.08);



- 24 -
(g) external auditors acceptable to the Bank will audit FNE's accounts
at the end of each fiscal year (para 4.07);
(h) the sanitation tax will continue being earmarked as a resource of FNE
(para 5.07);
(i) a part of the surcharge equivalent to the annual service requirements
of the debt previously managed by FNA will be allocated to the
sewerage and drainage sub-sector (para 5.07);
(j) annual revenues of the sub-sector will be at least equivalent to the
annual operating costs, including a provision for depreciation
calculated on revalued assets in service of the Abidjan sewerage and
drainage system (para 5.08);
Condition of Loan Effectiveness
7.02    The condition of loan effectiveness will be the fulfillment of
conditions pursuant to the initial disbursement of the EIB loan agreement
(para 3.18).
Recomrindation
7.03    Subject to the above-mentioned conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.9 m to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire at
the prevailing interest rates for 20 years, including five years of grace.
AFlIN - AFTIN
August 4, 1989



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
1AULt. 5:  lillttltU&lD &N*UiM*N%IOTAL tb hills  it I tTdlUti?  MlOlit?  fi tr 121
pt^   I:  I.AIXtMi IbATY  40-A1.111A HISNISh iVtIAL  SILS
lrs.s.,s  Ill*;8 Iun.tllit4|                                                  lr. ,..ti id llU;i I It sidtmes
basis rsler   salsle                                                H.i U iebl  sea                            Walr Iluaiir              _U.seficisi ii.
rrga lc Pbei   Fasoell       invir.        imlissirigi   Noeu-Ssas     high-    hlrgsasla     Pubic       l,,l. IC uI.. t1v ,u"n-U    isdustfial  Ve,rve-        *mabsl.et0
Polls-    meelib                   AssIbelata  Uroolk b        i tisgI      rio.       Poll.-      flemISh                 * n-la          It?m.al t Il Ret,
ti1s        oll-                   end l rid                   Is            leesi"                Ico11-                  A slbe1c5                     t ls r       aurs.,r I
fowlUm    forms) tuI e s1urwarvi   IIttlV                                                          forma  1od Land
*sises
ceoaltAas      "erioe    Mrrass.   Sgiesits  AIsready          Complaints  SVarious          arielo    Les Lasoa ttnfIt        srious    Gross             lacrese-    bll be         Lest so
disese l       m ies    Is to        et smee-    aherele   reachIng           polilatiL     lapser-   5e58e        for         *rule-   dspreca-           isgi  los?    I*       Io t   s
to lassoe      eotrel  estr-l   asSeSSes    desir-            Sorioa.       is *.4trl   sOnt Is   Urbliod    weal            lat ioss    t on sit        *eaeral       ledesi      Sitse
wi,hswt        lofse      lasos    in be-le    elated Is   levelsl            lgoon         control   geras        contact    in           lagoon          probleso      areas       ser
Sreslaet       are       areao      sAds          central                    areas but    lagoon    will be    sports          btlsaw      -stht SCSI   sad            na-r          urbliad
areas                      as 'lat       areas      *anit-                  *Sat         land cglues    limited       coastal      tsea
little                  tie                                 'lb Idl          areeth1      ltoses
rIratio                   ss                                 n  lone         peteal 51
desoed                                                         is rIlCctJp
Il-ard         trsoee     Slerious   Magie6sis    AIredSy      to pl-isl   S-erious         Serious   later-       later-      gnt.r-      IntS-rsediate   later-       151Cr.        star-
Ire ton        is    10              of sea_-    seriously   reeha ng        pal lut ies    ispeir- *-diata    sedlast.    sddate                                            Idlt-
eseoral   ee 1r51   aulat se       depre-       ierious il  tentral   seet is
lasse     leadoo     to bhttes   ciated ia    leSls           lagoos        Central 
eress     areas       molso        Cast ro$                   areas but    lagoon
*t-^@               I bttlt       *tlit I I
as -e_rd        is
reratt ion
ilecieseded   Serious   lserious   aeglaa         al rrady     inpt*sl *1     sir um        seriouuo   110         hO           u     ~    hebtsrstlos    bade          tisll-lted    lises-e
Plsa  sp a   lis          i          of acost-   aerisslal resshsss           poiliil in    impir-   praubiss    priues.l   pinies.  18 circa              ras.Z sf  uee  mlem         ilI
dispassli          ee tri   osetrl    sus-e 1_    dpre-        * astis        an  as*trs    sentI iS   deed        good        tS rud         t-sipcndemce   arcepta*    vse  ef      rtered
1ee       Is-dOo     i1 bttes    -istd  Is   1ec-1s           iguana        casIrsI   qsliti    quglat't   Pulity           051 indt a      ble La-      Iffm
ares      c ress      sd           cesiral                    areas bet      lagoas                                         high land       d,tri.       hr peepl
*tei ttle                          *t                                            AS...iin         ess s
rdclet is,.i isue rl                                                           r *l spe
desaI                                               .. iuc           isoa
sli~~~~~~~ 
OQ_
r er*ot&D& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I
d:seftd~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
rANLU i:  FltJattlkD  NlVlItieHKNTAiL t'tV*ITIlINJ UITN AND WITlUI PIUJNIIt 421 or oiI
PANT it:  oINAM WAt911 uIALITt ANSI SbNhPIIIAL UbSO
Presnt fill? Cond It Gone                                                   II.. %*VI .d  4_CUU?I 4_ _itib
altern.-
2liv  hstoe                  bater  .osl&ty                             nesfticaml ie.S                              hater Wuelatv                      en.ticiaml I'te
Ut-asmcm  1oli-      lathes       Vlonta-     uCvbn         s1tab-        lIsrane    ormmmscs  tols.        6..m        Iletb            Uc- t         _ea  Pele-  Mori"
SbOII     tofe                   bUe          beaecbes      r o4 1e olod,    NI630              for                                     lemoIebee    rvise       breleg
comtlo_        Poloe  IProblea l    bo          Problem      Iatali1-      Probably      Probably  Pollution  paollut ion  Probebly  Problem           Unet.f       rrbhl       $a*otfa-
dia-era-e   oetel  for *el, tor  problem        only for    cant           little        little    over such  over muck  belmnnanr  over seek          ever         _i1        cnot
to logo"      meor-      ser-                   aserbeors   pollution   *etect           edt.r?.    wide*r     uder        of siCna- -&der             euteajed   Ie.1t-        sivere
ithWet         ebeto     obore                   mAte                                    effect    coasteA    coastal    ($senl    cometal             eostal        _t         offet
_t      eters    watere                                                                    sof,        tons       mecu-ule-  Rg               So seem                   is _1elow
er          _er                                                                                             tkons                       _
bhrbour   harbour
miiod        P"beeo   Vrebles   no             Proble-      Saonahm-      Probebil      Probsbtv  Intet-      Intet-      Inaer-     lnatr-           later-      IA-te-       Stter-
freatet       omly taor  mal ftr  problem       only for    cant           little        little    aediate    eediote   emsmte   mediste               aeAsto      meite        Modest o
mee-      ser-                   searokore   pol luton    *tteffet        advere 
chore     shr&                   water*                                   efftect
nmer      meal
herbour   bathee
*etrooce  *-atrae
son            Problem    P       roblem   he    Proble         nsim nf-      Probebly     ob ablv  So         he                     N. 1o            be 
daspoml        eell  for  only for  problam     onlv for   rent            liltte        little    proalea    prur         jre.       pr.ialoo         problem      Alb1_       preble
mw e-     hear-                   tesr awre   polI utaon    effec         adVerme
*W.-    *011 -                  z.ar. *orv
Ohere     shore                   emr                                     effort
Waterm    USter
"oer      near
hareour   harbour
*ot ravrnt amrnace
A   _.   O._



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
TIME                      SCOPE OF         1    [ SPECIAL  REGULATORY                M J  ONITORING
FRAME  [USA      REGULATORY  ACTIVITIES j    [        MECHANICS          I    I    ACTIVITIES
From           Environmental Protection        Environmental Impact         Water  udolicy Monitonr%
about             Woler Quolily                  Stalement Including       tion)(0s port of overoll drA-
1970                  Aspect                  Water Quolity Aspects        raninentl monitoring pn
L                                                _____
To                Woter Pollution               Permit Procedure                Water Quality
about                  Qualit1                     by  Regional         _   Monitoring (with Hmd l
1970                  Contfl                       W PC  Authority               Data Colletion)
Tou                Seaoge and                   Locol Community                 Response to
1960               Excreto Disposal                   Control                      Complaints
FIGURE 2: EVOLUTION OF CONCEPT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION FOR WATER RESOURCES
(From   Environmenlal Protection ond National Environment Board In Thailond",
H. Ludwig, National Environment Boord, Bakok, 1978)



- 28 -                           Annex 3-2
-28-    ~ ~~~~~~ege I. of 6
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LAGOON AND OCEAN POLLUTION MONITORING PROGRAM
1.        Introduction
It should be emphasized that design of outfall systems is not an
exact science, hence the role of moniLoring is very important for the
evaluation of the system performance. If shown to be needed by monitoring,
the system can subsequently be improved, for instance by providing
additional treatment prior to discharge. The monitoring data themselves
will indicate the needed improvements.
The two parameters most important in the monitoring program are
coliforms and floatables. With respect to coliforms, the usual practice in
use of this parameter is to delineate the- zone of water along the beach or
shoreline to be protected, that is, the zone used for water contact sports,
extending, say, 100 meters from shore.  Within this zone the limit of
coliforms (either fecal or total) to be maintained is specified, hence the
selection of this limit is important so that a safe and sanitary
environment is maintained within the recreational zone at minimum cost.
The standard used around the world varies greatly, but based on an analysis
of experience throughout the world including developing countries, the
standard which could possibly apply for the Cote d'Ivoire would be 100
total coliforms per ml 1/.
Floatables is a new parameter developed specifically for use in
planning and evaluating marine disposal systems. The technology for
measuring floatables is being continually improved, and the proposed
monitoring program includes use of both standard floatables tests and
advanced methods for measurement of thin oil films.
Generally there is a close relationship between coliforms and
floatables in the protected water zone. Generally, if the disposal system
will maintain coliforms below the desired limit it will also maintain a
level of floatables which is aesthetically acceptable.
2.        Lagoon Monitoring
(a) M!onitoring Stations
Because the cost of the monitoring program depends on the number
of sampling stations, it is recommended that the initial program be limited
to a minimum number of not more than 20 "deep water" trial stations for the
first year, plus two or more beach water stations at places in the lagoon
1/   See: "Criteria for Marine Waste Disposal in Southeast Asia" by H.F.
Ludwig, tlarine Pollution and Marine Waste Disposal, Pergamon Press,
1976.



- 29 -
Annex 3- 2
Page Z ot 6
now used for swimming or water contact sports. Based on the experience
obtained during the first year, it should be possible to delineate a first
approximation of an optimal permanent monitoring system.
For the initial program the approximate locations of the
recommended stations are shown in the Environmental Base Hap. The
objective is to obtain information on changes in lagoon characteristics in
areas affected by pollution, from both liquid and solid wastes. The
stations include some points just inside and some points deep inside the
various major bays as well as in the main lagoon channels, plus two
reference stations in still unpolluted areas (one to the east and one to
che west;.
The samples to be taken at each station (not including the beacl;
stations) should include both the water column (sampled at mid-depth and at
the surface) and the bottom sediments.
The bottom sediment samples, which include benthic fauna, are
valuable in indicating progressive changes in ecology in that the bottom
sediments tend to integrate the accumulative effects of pollutants in the
water column, while the conditions in the water column at any given moment
may be transitory and can vary over a wide range.
For the beach samples the initial program can be limited to
measurement of coliforms plus visual observations on the presence of
floatables (particulates and oils).
For the initial year it is suggested that two sets of samples be
taken, one during the first half of January (representing the main dry
season) and one during the first half of July (representing the main rainy
season).
(b) Program of Sampling and Analyses
The program of sampling and analysis to be follo-wed is shown in
Table A of next page. This gives the parameters to be measured for surface
samples and mid-depth samples of the water column and for bottom sediment
samples. In addition to the sampling/analysis program, colored aerial
photographs should be taken and special surface oil film measurements
should be made as described below.
(c) Surface Oil Film Measurements
Although the sampling/analysis program described above includes
grease/oil determinations for surface samples, this test represents only a
crude approximation of the surface oils which, even in very small
concentrations, can cause visible and undesirable oil films. Recently a
new method for measuring surface oils has been developed by Dr. R.C.



Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 6
Carter. It is recommended the Carter method of testing be made at each of
the 20 stations, twice per year along with the other determinations.
TABLE A: RECOXMENDED MONITORING PROGRAM FOR RECEIVING WATERS
PARAMETER             UNIT        Lagoon        Ocean    3each
water sedi- water sedi
___________ column ment colunn ment eater
Coliforms, total          MPN/ml       x            x            x
Coliforms, fecal            n          x             x           x
Grease and oil             mg/m2       x             x           x
Floating Partictlates      mg/m        x             x           x
Suspended Solides          mg/l        x             x           x
pH                       pH units      x             x
Salinity                   g/kg        x             x
Temperature              degrees C    x              x
Total Phosphorus           mg/i        x             x
Total Nitrogen             mg/l        x             x
Amonia Nitrogen            mg/l        x             x
Dissolved Oxygen           mg/l        x             x
Light Transmission          %/m        x             x           x
Discoloration            Yes or no    x              x           x
Fish/Shellfish              _          x             x
Current velocity/                      x             x
Directior.
Chlorinated                mg/l                x           x
Hydrocarbons
Heavy Metals               mgAkg               x           x
Arsenic                     n                 x           X
Cadmium                                       x           x
Chromium (total)                              x           x
Copper                      ..                x           x
Lead                                          x           x
Mercury                     n                             X
Nickel                                        x   .       x
Silver                                        x           x
Zinc                        n                             X
Cyanide                    mg/kg               x           x
Phenols                    mg/kg               x           x
Sullfides                   mg/l        x      x           x
Radioactivity             A Ci/mg                          x
Particle ize                                   x           x
Distribution
BOD                        mg/kg               x           x
COD                        mg/kg               x           x
Hexame Extractables        mg/kg               x           x
Benthic Biota                                  x           x



- 31 -                Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 6
(d) Colored Aerial Photography
Twice per year, in early January and in early July, aerial
photographs should be taken using infrared color film of high resolution.
Pictures should be taken from a direction where sun glare is minimized, and
should be taken when the sea surface is relatively calm. These pictures
should be taken to show any visible surface discolorations caused by
wastes, including surface oil films.
(e) Additional Monitoring bv CRO
As shown in Table A of previous page, information is required on
such parameters as current direction and velocity, temperature, salinity,
dissolved oxygen, pd and alkalinity, and fish catches. Some of the data
needed by CNE are already being obtained by CRO 2/at various points in the
lagoon, through its ongoing monitoring program relating to fisheries, and
these data should be integrated into the reports prepared for CNE by CRO.
At the end of the first year of experience, CRO should be in a position to
determine those additional stations and analyses which should be added to
the present CRO program to meet CNE needs.
(f) Fish Kills
Consideration should also be given to monitoring of fish kills
which occur in the lagoon. The objective would be to obtain information on
such kills when they occur and to attempt to determine the causes.
3.        Monitoring of Ocean Waters
At the present time it is recommended that the ocean monitoring
program be limited to (i) four beach water stations, including (a) one
about 0.5 km west and (b) one 5 km west of the ship channel outlet, (c) one
about 500 meters to the east to the ship channel in the popular beach zone
(at the "center" where the use of the beach is the greatest), and (d) one
5 km east of the ship channel, (ii) four offshore stations, including
stations about 1 km offshore from points (b) and (d) noted above, and (iii)
two offshore stations in the vicinity of the proposed sewage outfall, the
first 1 km offshore, and the second 2 km offshore. These stations are
shown in the environmental base map which is in the project file.
2/   Centre des Recherches Oceanographiques (Oceanographic Research
Center).



- 32 -
Annex 3, 2
Page 5-of 6
Samples are to be taken once per year, together with colored
aerial photography, in early January. The program of sampling and analyses
is summarized in Table B.
TABLE B:  RECOMMENDED MONITORING PROGRAM FOR WASTES
PARAMETER                     UNIT
3
Quantity of Flow                    m /day
Temperature                        degrees C
BOD                                 mg/i
COD                                 mg/i
Suspended SOlids                    mg/i
Settleable Solids                   mg/1
Turbidity                           Ppm
Grease and Oil                      mg/l
Floatable Particulates              mg/i
Total Dissolved Solids              mg/i
Total Nitrogen                      mg/l
Ammonia Nitrogen                    mg/i
Total Phosphates                    mg/i
pH                               pH units
Alkalinity                          mg/l
Coliforms, total                  MPN/ml
Coliforms, fecal
Cyanide                            mg/i
Phenols                             mg,/i
Sulfides                            mg/i
Chlorinated Hydrocarbons            mg/i
Toxicity                      toxicity units
Radioactivity                    A' Ci/mi
Heavy Metals (as needed)            mg/l
Arsenic
Cadmium
Chromium (total)                  n
Copper
Lead
Mercury
Nickel
Silver
Zinc -
Acidity                             mg/i



Annex 3- 2
33                   Page 6 of 6
It is anticipated that the ocean monitoring program would be
carried out essentially by the water pollution control laboratory of the
Ministry of the Marine (which is already implementing a substantial
monitoring program) and by CRO.
4.        Timing of Sampling and Analyses
Preferably the samples should be taken and the analyses made in early
January and early July as noted before. However, in order to distribute
the work load, it may be necessary to spread the program of
sampling/analyses over the periods December-January and June-July.



- 34 -                                   Annex 3-3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMNTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
SEPTAGE DISCHARGE STATION
lose gas
AIODIF V 5ADO/Off
AIN,cEorw# .CV.  PLAN VIEW
AWAhN covto                                                  DLAEEP(o
/~~~~~~~~~~~r \          Mf wNrAqffi
IO PRO bENT o .t H
I VA. AfTrAL -   tWT    PcPcRROVED PRESS  rTT VAQUA DREAMER -
ELEVATION
DRAINCOE
SELF CLOSING                        gao-  gyo.R
P"7 0RE#MATED                       GRoLNO fCE
To A4X9#OVFO  ew*"fi''e4
"SIAtGVtP6 ~~e,,vw  jH                             < f IIVVA   MT    ~g  tWD.
Sif?IRoo    o Eo0MAXD s-C  M0  rTAP
P TRAP '       ThO VENT



- 35_                                   Annex 3-4
REPtBLIC OF COTE D'IYOIRE
ABIOJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECrION PROJECT
COST   TI rTES fJune 1989 Priceal
(USJ1 s CFAF U12)
N of
ease
CFAF million               US8 million        Coat
Total  Local   For-egn  Total  Local   Foreign
A. Completion of Intercootor, ocen outfoll  floatable
removable Plant  nnd  umping rctlitie
- Lagoon crosaing within box culv-rt of Charles de Gaulle
Sridge (steolpipe lind Inside with epoxy and outside
with bitumatic; diameter:  1_; length: 7609)                     see       of       220     1.6      9.8       0.7   2
- Interceptor e*ctions from exiting outlet to bIETRI
lagoon to ocean outfall (rinftore*d concrete; diameters
1,9-1,9eo-1 49 _; length * 6,900m)                           2,690 U     61    1,600      3.6      2.7       5.8  20
- Kou"aai lumping station
(Q: 8.2 m /s; Hi lin)                                            660      19       4560     1.6     9.8        1.5   4
- Sand trap                                                        256      120      1" U     9.      0.4       0.4   2
- Floatable removal plant                                          200       40       169     9.6      0.1       6.5   2
(Q S  .2m/s)
- Ocean outfall (steel pipe lined Inside with epoxy and
outside with bitumastic; diameter 1,2000 ;
length a 1211)                                                8,66       8SW    2,766       9.6     1.0        8.6   23
- Septag  discharge stations at the min interceptor                 60       20        89     0.2     6.1        6.1    -
- Sludge containers                                                 20       10        16       -        -         -    -
- 2 trucks for disposal of digeated sludge                          8o        -        a      6.1        -       0.1
Sub-tot l (A)                                     711W   1i529    5,S3T    22 0          :       17.7 7  6
8. Secondnry and tertilry se-rs  pilot on-site sonitation.
.auTL mnt1CheM clels por ltyio'N mnitrring.-
- Indutrial zone at norbor (diameters: 2W,2O, 8O9,
406,   _  ; lenoth:  6,0111), Including 8 pumping stations    360         290       570     2.8      1.0       1.8    7
- Othor quarter (diametrs: 400, 600, 700, 86e0;
length:  21,906m) Including C pumping etotions                2,600       860    1,860      6.0     2.7       653   19
- Provision for pilot sanitation component                          89       is        20     9.1        -       6.!   -
- Provision for equipment/chemicals for pollution
monitoring program                                                e         -        6o     9.2        -       0.2    -
Sub-total (8)                                     8,460    1,15      2,866O   11.1       :7       7:4   28
C. Consultinp service  and training (Government contribution)
a)  FesbillIty study                                               839       89      8a6      1.1      0.1       1.0    8
b)  Final design and tender documento of project works             416       40       875     1.8      0.1       1.2    S
c)  Supervision of project works                                   065       70      565      2.1     0.2        1.9    6
d)  Comprehensive aanitation/dralnage/environmental
feasibility study/master plan                                  480       40       89W     1.4     0.1        1.8    8
o)  Final design and tender documents for follow-up project        360       40       al8     1.1      0.1       1.    a
f)  Monitoring of pollution parameters over 6 years                890       56       840     1.2      0.2       1.0    a
g)  Training                                                       159      159         -      .65    6.5          -
Sub-tot l (C)                                                   27!F2      42W    2'51       *7Tr    iDFr       J 4   21
D. Base Cost (A * 8 * C)                                           18,220    8,690   10,180    42.4       9.9      82.6  100
E. Physical Contingencles                                           1,260      29W       969     4.0      0.9       8.1    9
F. Price Contingencles                                              1.100      256       ego     8.6      0.6       2.7    8
TOTAL                                                          16,670    8,608    11,949    49.9    11.6       88.8  117
Docname:clgri .c



- 36 -
ANNEX 3- 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
_________________________
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
----------------------------------------
FINANCING PLAN COMPONENTS
_________________________
(Amounts include contingencies)
US$ Million
---------------------------------
Local      Foreign      Total
A. I.B.R.D.
- Supply and installation of sewers                           7.1        14.0        21.1
- Civil works                                                 0.1         0.2         0.3
- Supply and installation of equipment/vehicles                 0         0.4         0.4
- Consulting services                                           0         0.1         0.1
Total I.B.R.D.                                       7.2        14.7        21.9
B. E.I.B.
- Supply and installation of sewers                           0.4         0.9         1.3
- Civil works                                                 1.1         1.3         2.4
- Supply and installation of equipment                        0.4         1.7         2.1
- Supply and installation of ocean outfall                    1.2        11.0        12.2
Total E.I.B.                                           3.1        14.9        18.0
C. Government
- Consulting services, training and pollution control         1.3         8.7        10.0
TOTAL                                               11.6        38.3        49.9
.,wa= =m,



- 37 -
ANNEX -86
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Million 1
BAK            QUARTER         X CUMULATIVE        CUMULATIVE         EACH         COTE D'IVOIRE
FY            ENDIN           DISBURSEMENT      DISBURSEMENT       QUARTER              FY
FY06          81 - March                   8.7               0.8          0.8
----          sO - Juno                    6.5                2.0          1.2
FY91          80 - September              18.4                8.6          1.6
----          81 - December               24.7                6.4         1.8      81 December 100
81 - March                  84.7                7.6         2.2
FY92          so - June                   41.7                9.0         2.4
----          U9 - September              58.0               11.6         2.6
81 - December               66.7              14.6           8.0     81 Decemer 1991
81 - March                  78.6               17.2         2.6
FY98          36 - June                   90.4               19.8          2.6
39 - Septembr               06.6               21.2          1.4
81 - December              100.0               21.9         9.7      81 December 1002



- 38 -                      Annex 3-7
R2PUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
CONDITIONS TO BE MET BY INDUSTRIES TO OBTAIN PERIITS AUTHORIZING THE
DISCHARGE OF WASTE WATER EFFLUENTS.
The permit for each industry specifies the conditions to be met
by the industry including the following (as needed):
(.1) Installation of an appropriate flow metering device, if the
quantity of flow cannot be reliably estimated by other means
(for example, from water consumption meters or from pump
capacities and pumping times);
(ii) Installation and operation of any treatment devices needed
for removing substances to protect the sewerage system or
the environment (such as gasoline or other explosive
materials, sulfides or acids which could generate sulfides
and significant quantities of mercury);
(iii) Sampling and analysis for detecting any substances which
should not be discharged into the sewers (when required) (to
be done by the industry, or by others, as specified in the
permit);
(iv) Submittal of periodic reports to NEC 3/containing
information on quantities, treatment performance, and
effluent concentraticns (as specified by the permit).
3/   (Commission Nationale de l'Environnement) National Environment
Commission.



Annex 4-1
- 39 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989        1990         1991         1992
Final design and tender documents
Financing 
Tendering and contract award                               l
Works' construction
44'
Monitoring of lagoon and ocean
pollution parameters
Pilot on-site sanitation and
feedback
I
Comprehensive master plan of the
Abidjan sanitation, drainage and
environmental protection system



- 40 -                        Annex 4-2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
QUARTERLY
a) Technical indicators (receiving waters: lagoon and ocean)
Coliforms, total               (MPN/ml)
Coliforms, fecal                (MPN/ml)
Grease and oil                  (mg/mr2)
Floating particulates          (mg/M2)
Suspended solids                (mg/1)2
pH                              (pH units)
Salinity                        (g/kg)
Temperature                     (degrees C)
Total Phosphorus                (mg/i)
Total Nitrogen                  (mg/1)
Ammonia Nitrogen                (mg/l)
Dissolved Oxygen                (mg/i)
Heavy metals                    (mg/kg)
Cyanide                         (mg/kg)
Phenols                         (mg/kg)
Sulfides.                       (mg/i)
BOD                             (mg/kg)
COD                             (mg/kg)
Light transmission              (x/m)
Discoloration                   (yes or no)
Fish/shellfish
Current velocity/direction    (m/s/direction)
Benthic biota
b) Staffing and training
For each project agency, specify: number, name and qualification
of professional, support staff and expatriate specialists. Mention all
training activities.
ANNUALLY
c) Financial indicators
Operat:ing ratio
Debt/equity ratio
Gross internal cash generation
Rate of return of nationally revalued net fixed assets



- 41 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
General
1.          This annex gives additional information on the assumptions used in
the financial projections, as well as the following tables:
(a)   Table 5-1: debt service of the sewerage and drainage sub-sector;
(b)   Table 5-2: income statements;
(c)   Table 5-3: flows of funds statements; and
(d)   Table 5-4: pro forma balance sheets.
Financial forecasts have been carried out over the period 1989-1996. Estimates
for 1988 are also provided, as well as the audited statements of FNA for 1987.
2.          1987 data reflect the accounting practices of FNA which depart from
commercial practices on a number of points, namely:
(a)   depreciation is calculated in order to equalize the value of fixed
assets to the total amount of outstanding long-term debt;
(b)   revenues are accounted for as collected and not as billed;
3.          FNA was abolished in December 1987 and replaced by FNE.  FNE assumed
the previous obligations of FNA and FNH. Data presented in the following tables
reflect only the financial operations related to the sewerage and drainage sub-
sector. Assets of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, as inventoried by
SODECI are assumed to be transferred to FNE, while remaining under State
ownership.
Debt Service
4.          Debt repayment schedules of previous loans have been provided by FNA
and adjusted to take into account variations of foreign exchange rates and the
cancellation of the unspent balance of Loan 1577-IVC. Repayment schedules of
the proposed IBRD and EIB loans have been established by assuming that the
present standard conditions would prevail over the life of the loans.
Revenues
5.          The part of the surcharge allocated to the sub-sector is equivalent
to the debt service requirements of existing loans. The budgetary support to
the sub-sector is equivalent to the debt service requirements of the EIB loan.



- 42 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
6.          Forecasts of the proceeds of the sanitation tax have been established
by assuming the following increases in the gross collection rate:
,CFAF MIli ion)
1988        1990         1992         1994         1996
Tax Base               10 300       10 930      11 690       12 300       13 060
(before exemptions)
Collection Rate          26X          26X          27X         30%          33x
(Gross)
Proceds                 2 676       2 864        a 1          3 717        4 336
The above gross collection rate is calculated prior to taking into account the
various exemptions opened by the Tax law.
7.          Other revenues refer to interest paid by CAA on deposits of the
national funds. The current interest rate is 6.52.
Operating Costs
8.          Operation and maintenance costs of the existing system is expected
to increase to CFAF 1133 million in 1989 and CFAF 1500 million in 1990, according
to DCGTx estimates and assuming that the entire system would be properly
maintained from 1990 onwards. 60Z of these costs are allocated to the drainage
system and 40Z to the existing sewerage system.   0 & M costs of the works
constructed under the present project are estimated as a percentage of the
investment costs, to which are added energy costs of pumping stations.
Administrative costs --payable to CAM -- are equally shared between sewerage and
drainage.
9.          From 1988 onwards, the annual depreciation of the revalued sewerage
and drainage assets has been calculated at a 2.4Z rate.
Working Capital Requirements
10.         Proceeds of the sanitation tax are assumed to be transferred to FNE
six months after collection by the Treasury.   Surcharge proceeds are to be
received from SODECI three months after billing to the customers. A two-month
lag has been assumed for the payment of operating expenditures.
11.         The  flow of  funds  for 1988  takes  into  account  a payment  of
CFAF 4 500 million made out of the excess cash of FNA to CAM Treasury in order
to extinct part of the accumulated arrears of FNH.



- 43 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
Scwvran. and Dralnaso Sub-sector
Financial Stat emnts 1988-1996
Table S-1 - Debt Service
-Actual- Eat -  --------------------- Forecst ------------------------------
Yoar  nding Deember 81            1987    1968    1989    1090    199       19m      1993    1994    1996    1996
--------------------------------CFAFMiIIion---------------------------------
OUTSTANDING DEBT OF FNA
LOAN 1076-IVC
Outstanding amount (end year)    2 207   2 078   1 940   1 790   1 628   1 4S1   1 260   1 064         832     691
Intereat A cominsions               181      171     l61     149      187     128     108       93      75      57
Repsymnts                           118      129     188     161      162     176     191      206     222     241
Sub-tota l  debt service            299      S0      299      OO      298     800     SOO      298     298     298
LOAN 147-IVC
Outstanding amount (end year)       561      499     486     874      811     248     186      128      61       0
Interest A comissions                58       46      41      85       gO      24      19       18       8       3
Repayments                           64       68      63      68       63      68      68      68       68      61
Sub-total : debt service            117      109     108      98       92      87      81       76      71      64
LOAN 1348-IVC
Outstanding amount (end yoar)       278      269     288     217      194     170     146      119      92      64
Inter et   commissions               15       18      12      11       10       9       7        6       5       4
Repayments                           17       20      21      22       23      24      25       26      27      29
Sub-total : debt * rvice             88       32      82      82       82      82      82       82      82      32
LOAN 1677-IVC
Outstanding amount (end year)    4 869   4 219   8 570   2 920   2 271   1 621        971      822       0       0
Interest A comissions               400      841     292     248      196     146      97       48      12       0
Repaymnts                           619      650     660    e60      650      650     660      650     822       0
Sub-total : debt service          1 020      990     942     898      844     796     747      698    834        0
LOAN KfW I
Disburs ements                       20   1 069      681       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Outstanding amount (end year)        54   1 140   1 720   1 720   1 720   1 720   1 720   1 720   1 677   1 633
Interest A comissions                 4        4      11      1S       18      18      18       18      1S      12
Repayments                            0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0      44      44
Sub-total  debt service               4        4      11      18       18      18      1S       18      67      68
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION PROJECT
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN
Disburseents                          0        0       0   1 687   2 869   2 274        0        0       0       0
Outstanding amount (end y"er)         0        0       0   1 687   4 566   6 830   6 880   6 705   6 440   6 166
Interest A comlislons                 0        0       0     110     269      449     529      624     609     487
Repayments                            0        0       0       0        0       0       0      125     266     285
Sub-total  debt service               0        0       0     110      269     449     629      649     774     778
PROPOSED EIB LOAN
Disbur emnts                          0        0       0   1 388    2 862   1 865       0        0       0       0
Outstanding amount (end year)         0        0       0   1 888   8 786   5 600   6 886   4 964   4 628   4 092
Interest A comissions                 0        0       0      69     148      288     276     258      287     216
Repayments                            0        0       0       0        0       0     215      431     481     431
Sub-total  debt service               0        0       0      59      148     288     490      689     668     64
---nts                        20   1 069     581   8 070   5 221   4 189         0       0       0        0
g amount (end yer)    7 970   8 196   7 905  10 090  14 415  17 642  16 498  14 999  18 626  12 634
_ coMmirsions              664     676     516      621     796   1 002   1 048      966     859      778
819     860     871      885     896     912   1 148   1 500   1 874   1090
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                1 47    1 486   186   1505   169    1914   2 192   2 465    288   1 869
= = ___= === == em _



- 44 -
Annex S
Page 4 of 6
Sewerage and Draina. Sub-s ctor
Financinl Statemn a 19B8-1998
*-2 - Ineom Statemnts
-Actual- Est                        - Forecasts  ------------------------------
nding December 31          198?    1986    1989    1900    1991    1992    199J    1994    1996    1996
-------------------------------- CFAF MIlI)on          --------------------- --------__
Xs
ation Tax                    2 994   2 567    2 652   2 84   3 094   a 168   3 441   3 717   4 014   4 336
Surcharge j/                 749   1 4386   1 3888   1383    l 20   1 227   1 173   1 116     791     460
Revenues                     383     241     212      276     3oo     306     310     315     316    315
ort to Environ. Coponent         0       0        0      59     143     238     490    689    e86    648
tel                          4 105   4 262   4 251   4 635   4 617   4 959   6 414   5 839  S 789   6 746
-=Z= '  8               ==    =   = 1=  ==
ENDITURES
rating Expenditures : Sewarage
U Costs (existing System)       280     320    453       600     S18     637     66e     675     696     716
UM Costs (propose  prolect)        0       0       0       0     232     283      321     334     348     $83
.inietrative Costs                 19      10      10      1l      11      11      12       12      12     1i
=____   -----  __ ___          - -___  ---_ ____   -----  _____  ____    -----
ub-totel                         299    830      483    611       861     931     988   l 021   1 056   1 092
-rating Expenditures : Drainage
Ohm Costs (existing qystem)       396     480      680     900     927     955     984   1 013   1 043   1 076
.Admlnlstrative Costs               19      10      10      l1       11      11      12      12      12      13
Sub-total                         415     490     690      911     9a8     968     995   1 025   1 05S   1 087
Total Cash Operating Expendit.   714     820   1 163   1 521   1 799   1 896   1 963   2 046   2 111   2 179
0*preclation V                   1 760   2 632   2 596   2 591   2 64   2 942   3 131   3 224   336   3 621
Total Operating Cost           2474        352   3 74    4 112  4 463   4 839   5 11S   6 270   6 477   5 700
Intereot
.Sewrage System                    384     323     294     429     838     873      951     891     821     76w
.Drainag. System                   290     263     222      192     160     129      97      64      38      :
_____   __ __   ____    ____    _____   -_ _ ---   _ -----   -----   --- - __-
Sub-total                         654     575     616      621     7     1 002   1 048    9S5      859     r
NET INCOME                         977     325     (13)   (190)   (442)   (882)   (749)   (387)   (647)   (73-
::2=     =3=    =3=      G5:=  3Z=    = 3==                 =-   3=   5==
Operating Ratio                     a0m     79X    8sx      91X    93%      98S     94X     90X    96X
I/ 1987: *veroge surcharge; 1988-1990: allocated part of the water surcharge.
J 1997: arbitrary depreciation allowances postod by fNA; 1988-1998: linter depreciation of *a*sta,



- 45 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Sewerag and Drainage Sub-sector
Financial Stat-ents 1988-1996
Table 6-3 - Flow of Funds
-Actual- Eat -  --------------------- Forecasts ------------------------------
Year ending December 31           1931    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996
-______--------------------CFAFMiIIion--------------------------------
Net Inco                           977     825      (13)   (198)   (442)   (882)   (749)   (387)   (647)   (732)
Add back:
.Depreciation                    1780   2 632   2569    2 691   2 684   2 942   3 181   8 224   3 36   3 621
.Interest                          864      676     616     621     796   1 002   1 048      958     859      778
_ - --- _ -- ---   - - - -    --  -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---
Sub-total                        3891   8 432   8 098   8 014   8 018   8 063   3 431   3 798   8 e8    3 657
Minus:
Debt Service:
.Sewerage System                    801     781     759     903   1 118   1 365   1 669   1 969   1 921   1 728
Draina&  System                    872     854     828      602     676     649     623     496      312     143
Increase In Working Capital       2 889    (120)    251      76      154     134     170     144      161     178
Foreign Exchange Adjustment.       (342)    (17)      0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0
_ - -;    ----   - --- - - - - - - -  - - - ---  ---_- -- ----- -   -- ---   -- ---
Sub-total                        399    1 299   1 837   1 580   1 847   2 048   2 882   2 699   2 394   2 047
Internal Cash Gen-ration           (808)  2 133   1 461   1 434   1 172   1 014   1 069   1 194   1 284   1 520
Capital Expenditures:
.Proposed ProJect                     0     745      74   3 823   6 803   6 226       87       0       0       0
.Other                              301  1069       81       0       0        0       0       0       0       0
.Impact of FNA Liquidation            0   4500        0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0
Renewal (sewerage)                   0       0       0     371      382     406     429     463      761     788
Renewal (drainage)                   0       0       0     660      567     683     601     619      638     867
_ --    --- -    ---- -  --- - -  - --- - -  - ---  - -    - --- - - - - _---- -- - --- -- -- -
Sub-total                          301   6 314     665    4 544   8 762   6 214   1 117   1 072   1 389   1 443
_ --    --- -    ---- -  --- - -  - --- - -  - --- - -    - ---  _- - - _---- -- - --- -- -- -
Balance to be Financed              909   4 181    (806)  3 110   6 680   6 200       48    (122)    105    (77)
Proposed IBRD Loan                    0       0       0   1 687   2 869   2 274        0        0       0       0
Proposed EIB Loan                     0       0       0   1 383   2 852   1 886        0        0       0       0
Other Loans                          20   1 069     S81       0        0       0       0       0        0       0
Govern_ent Contribution               0     746      74    563       682   1 087      87       0        0       0
_ --    --- -    ---- -  ---  - -  - - --- - - --  _-- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---
Sub-total                           20   1 814     e66   3 623   6 803   6 226       87       0        0       0
_- - --   -- --  _- - - -  - - --_--  --   -- ---   ----- -_- - --   -- ---   -- ---
Cash Variation                     (889) (2 387)  1 461     513      223      28      39      122    (106)     77
Cash End of Year                  4 897   2 6     30 3990   4 504   4 728   4 763   4 792   4 913   4 809   4 886
Debt Service Coverage (times)       2.3     2.4     2.2      2.0     1.8     1.8     1.6      1.6     1.6     1.9
Average Net Plant in Service    81 036  60 214  69 16e  67 976 61 430  67 537  69 625  69 467  70 017  71 211
Cash Generation as X of
Capital Expenditures               -202X     341    223%     32X     17K    lx      96x    III%      92X    106X
1/ Transfer of excess cash of FNA to CAA.



- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
Sowerag. and Drainaue Sub-sector
Financial Statements 1988-1996
Table 6-4 - Pro Form. Balance Sheet.
-Actual- Est -  --------------------- Forcast -----------------------------
Year ending December 81           1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1996
__--__---------------------- CFAF Million ---------------------------------
ASSETS
FNA: Unamortized
Capital Outlay ^/                 7 970
Fixed Assets:
Gross Revalued Asusts                   105 488 108 123 108 880 120 219 127 724 181 605 135 398 141 626 148 141
Minus: Accumulated Depreciation          45 779  49 616  61  836  64 692  58 178  62 001  66 988  71 001  76 344
,                              ~~~~~~~~- -- - -- -- -- --- -- ----- -- -- -- _- -- -- --_- -- -- --- -- -- --_- -- -- --- -- ----- -- -- ---
Not Asset  In Service                    69 707  68 606  67 346  e6 627  69 647  69 604  69 409  70 625  71 796
Works in Progress                              0       0   3 070        0       0       0        0       0       0
Othor                                     1 814   2 469   8 022   3 604   4 691   4 778   4 778   4776   4778
i --- - --_--- - - - -  _- -- ---  ----- - ---_-- --- -_- - -  - ---- --_- - - -  - -- ---
Sub-total                               61 521  61 074  68 437  69 131  74 238  74 282  74 187  76 403  76 674
Receivables                       3 460   3 332   3 638   3 774   3 974   4 124   4 309   4 463   4 636   4 824
Cash                              4 897   2 630   3 990   4 604   4 726   4 763   4 792   4 913   4 809   4 888
_ ---   ---- -   ----_  - -  - -_---- - - - -  ----- - ----- --- -_- - -  - ---- --_- - - -  _- -- ---
Total Asgete                   16 326  67 383  68 702  71 716  77 831  83 116  83 383  83 684  84 847  86 284
=~~ _=                                                                  - - = =       
LIABILITIES
FNA: Revenue Surplus  /           7 268
Capital                                  67 027  67 027  67 027  57 027  67 027  67 027  67 027  67 027  67 027
Retained Earnings                           325     312     114    (327) (1 209) (1 968) (2 344) (2 891) (3 624)
Grants                                       746     819   1 383   1 954   3 042   3 129   3 129   3 129   3 129
Revalustion Reserve                            0   1 493   1 903   3 609   6 343   7 402   9 459  12 652  16 901
_   ii---_ -   ;  - _-- - -   _- - -- Z  - -- - --  - ----- - _-- - --  - ----- - _-- - --  - -- ---
Sub-tote l                       7 26   58 097  69 651  6o 416 62 162  64 203  65 600  67 270  69 916  72 433
Long Term Debt                    7 109   7 324   7 020   9 194  13 603  16 498  14 99   13 626  12 634  11 482
Current Maturities
of Long Term Debt                   860      871    8865    89       912   1 143   1 500   1 374   1 090   1 073
Payable Accounts                  1 099   1 091   1 147   1208   1 264   1 270   1 286   1 296   1 306   1 318
- - - --  _ - - --  - ----- - _-- - --  - -- ---  - ----- - _-- - --  - ----- - _-- - --  - -- ---
Total Liabilities              16 326  67 383  68 702  71 716  77 831  83 115  83 383  83 664  84 847  86 284
= _                   ==2s        =_= ==== =           =   =_   8
Debt / (Debt + Equity)               49%    llX       11%     13X    lx      20%    l1x       17X     15X     14%
Curront Ratio                       1.8      1.7     1.8     1.8      1.8     1.7     1.6      1.7     1.9     2.0
] According to FNA accounting practices.



- 47 -                       Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        This annex provides additional information on the estimation of
project's benefits, the economic rate of return (ERR) and the average
incremental cost (AIC).
Benefits
2.        Two categories of benefits have been identified and quantified:
(a)   direct benefits stemming from property value enhancement;
and
(b) external benefits accruing from increased fisheries output.
Other benefits such as health and increased recreational activities in the
lagoon area cannot be readily quantified.
Property Value
3.        The impact of an ever-increasing pollution of the lagoon would
affect property values in two ways. Firstly, the land value of the areas
already developed in the immediate vicinity of the lagoon would continu-
ously decrease. Secondly, future development of land tracts not yet used
for residential purpose could hardly take place in the proximity of a
sanitation mess. Of the total 118 km of lagoon coastal line within city
limits, 53 km have already been developed, of which 21 km for residential
housing and 32 km for commercial, industrial or services facilities. 30 km
are still available for residential development.
4.        It is assumed that development of urban tracts of land within
100 m of the lagoon could not take place if the pollution continues to grow
at the current pace, thus progressively reducing market values to the
present CFAF 3000/m2 observed in the Abidjan extensions areas. The land
value of existing housing properties should also he reduced to an
equivalent amount by the year 2010. A measure of the corresponding annual
benefit is given by the annual rental value estimated by AUA at 6 percent
of the incremental market value.
5.        AUA estimated that 206 hectares of existing properties and 303
hectares of developable would be concerned. The following table gives
their location, along with the observed market values of urban land:



- 48 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
Existing    Developable         Average
Zone                       Housing          Area         Market Value
(ha)          (ha)           (CFAF/m)
Riviera                       25             32             10 500
Cocody                        46              6             27 500
Front Lagune                  15              -             27 500
Plateau Ouest                 20              -             27 500
Koumassi                      22            126              7 000
Marcory Nord                  38             10             22 500
Treichville Nord               -             34             12 500
Bietri                        23             14             15 000
Marcory Sans Fil               -             81             11 500
Petit Bassam                  17              -              7 000
Total/Average                206            303             20 400
Fisheries Output
6.         According to CRO studies and MDM estimates, fish catches would be
expected to decrease by 50 percent and shrimp woull di3appear in the next 20
years if no attempt is made to reduce lagoon pollution. It is assumed that by
2010 the project will allow to restore fisheries output to the level observed
in the early seventies i.e. 3,800 t of fish and 1,300 t of shrimp. Value added
is estimated at CFAF 200/kg and CPAF 1,000/kg respectively.
Economic Rate of Return
7.        Calculations are carried out over a 40 year period corresponding to
the useful life of the major physical components. Using the above assumptions,
the ERR amounts to 15 percent. (See Table 6-1).
Average Incremental Cost
8.        AIC calculations are given in Table 6-2. The AIC value of CFAF 48/i3
refers to incremental sewage flows. As only 80 percent of consumed water enters
sewers, AIC per m3 of consumed - and billed - water is only CFAF 38/i3.



- 49 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Table 6-1 - Determination of the economic rate. of return
COSTS                                      BENEFITS
_____________________________________________________________________________________________-
Capital  0 A M   Total       Property values             Flohories output         Total    NET
Year  costs   costs   costs  Existing Developab Total    Fish    Shrimp    Total  Benefits BENEFITS
---------------------------------------- CFAF MlIiIon ---------------------------------------
1988     300       0     800        0         0        0        0        0        0        0      -300
1989     116       0     115        0        0         0        0        0        0        0      -116
1990    8017       0    8017        0         0        0        0        0        0        0    -8017
1991    5180       0    5180        0         0        0        0        0        0        0    -5180
1992    4086     807    4876      428        g6      519       28       61       79      597    -8778
1998       0     815     815      604      261      8eg        56      102      167     1012       697
1994       0     822     822      768       8o6    1128        88      158      286     1864      1041
1995       0     880     880      915      470      1885      1ll      204      815     1700      1870
1996       0     888    8a8      1049       577     1626      1S8      256     s8s      2021      1682
1997       0     847     847     1170      6o0    177         166     a809      476     2262      1905
1998       0     a66     as8     1279      627      1906      194     s88       567     2468      2108
1999       0     864     864     1878      647      2026      221      419      640     2866      2802
2000       0     878     878     1468      s81      2284      249      476      725     8009      2636
2001       0     879     879     1649       944     2498      277      686      812     8306      2926
2002       0     8s8     88e     1623      1002     2624      805      597      902     8628      3140
2008       0     892     892     1689      1069     2749      a38      eSo      993      3742     8360
2004       0     899     899     1749      1117     2867      862      727     1088      3955     8668
2006       0     406     406     1804      1162     2966      890      798     1186      4162     8747
2006       0     412     412     1864      1lse     8060      419       s6s    1288     4887      3925
2007     975     419    1894     1899      1229     8128      448      944     1893      4621     3127
2008       0     427     427     1940      1283    8203       478     1024     1502     4706      4279
2009       0     484     484      1977     1318     8296      508     1109     1616      4912     4478
2010       0     441     441     2011      1340     8850      538     1198     1735      50s8     4646
2011       0     441     441     2011      1840     8850      645     1204     1760      6100     4659
2012       0     441     441     2011      1340     8850      668     1211     1764      6114     4673
2018       0     441     441     2011      1340     3380      580     1217     1777      5127     4686
2014       0     441     441     2011      1340     3860      667     1222     1789      6140     4698
2016       0     441     441     2011      1340    3860       574     1227     1801      5151     4710
2016       0     441     441     2011      1340     8350      580     1232     1812      5163     4721
2017       0     441     441     2011      1340     8850      86a     1287     1828      5178     4732
2018       0     441     441     2011      1340    3860       592     1241     1833      6184     4742
2019       0     441     441     2011      1340    3880       598     1245     1843      6193     4762
2020       0     441     441     2011      1340    38850      604     1248     1862      6203     4761
2021       0     441     441     2011      1340     as80      609     1262     1861      6211     4770
2022     976     441    1416     2011      1340     8860      614     1256     1869      6220     8804
2028       0     441     441     2011      1340    s8so       620     1268     1877      6228     4787
2024       0     441     441     2011      1340     8850      624     1261     1885      6236     4794
2026       0     441     441     2011      1340    3860       629     1263     1892      5243     4801
2026       0     441     441     2011      1340     8850      884     1266     1899      6260     4808
2027       0     441     441     2011      1340    3as0       638     1286     1906      626e     4815
2028       0     441     441     2011      1340     3350      642     1270     1912      6263     4821
2029       0     441     441     2011      1340     8860      647     1272     1918      6289     4828
2030       0     441     441     2011      1340     8360     e60      1274     1924      6275     4833
2031    -890     441      61     2011      1340     8860      864     1276     1930      6280     6229
NPV @ 10  11297     8726     6049    18774      1727     8487     6214    18988     7690
Economic rate of roturn         15X



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Table 6-2 - Determination of the Average Incremental Cost tAIC)
Incroemental
Water    Incroemntal   Capital       0 a V       Total
Year consumption     flow        costs       costs       costs
------ Million mS ----- ------------CFAF Million----------
1988        54.6                      3oo                     300
1989        56.3                      116                     115
1990        68.0                     3017                    3017
1991        59.7                    s5ao                    s51o
1992        61.6        23.1         4068         307        4875
1998        63.3        24.6                      81s         815
1994        65.2        26.1                      322         822
1995        87.2        27.7                      880         830
1996        69.2        29.3                      888         aa8
1997        71.3        30.9                      347         847
199         78.4        32.7                      356         855
1999        75.6        34.4                      884         864
2000        77.9        36.2                      878         878
2001        79.5        37.6                      879          879
2002        81.0        38.8                      386          886
2008        82.7        40.0                      892          892
2004        84.8        41.4                      899          899
2005        86.0        42.7                      406         406
2006        87.7        44.1                      412         412
2007        89.5        46.5          975         419         1894
2008        91.8        46.9                      427         427
2009        93.1        48.4                      484         484
2010        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2011        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2012        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2018        96.0        49.9                      441         441
2014        96.0        49.9                      441         441
2016        96.0        49.9                      441         441
2016        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2017        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2018        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2019        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2020        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2021        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2022        95.0        49.9          976         441         1416
2028        95.0        49.9                      441         441
2024        95.0        49.9                      441          441
2026        95.0        49.9                      441          441
2026        95.0        49.9                      441          441
2027        96.0        49.9                      441          441
2028        95.0        49.9                      441          441
2029        96.0        49.9                      441         441
2080        96.0        49.9                      441         441
2081        95.0        49.9         -390         441           61
NPV @10 X                     214        8085        2238        10270
AIC (CFAF/n3 of effluent)            48
AIC (CFAF/m3 of consumed water)      38



- 49 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Table 6-1 - Determination of the economic rate of return
COSTS                                       BENEFITS
Capital  0 A M   Total        Property values              Fishorlos output         Total    NET
Year  costs   costs   costs  Existing Developab  Total    Floh    Shrimp    Total  Benefits BENEFITS
----------------_-------------------- CFAF MlI Ion ----------------------------------------
1988     800       0      800        0         0        0         0        0         0        0     -300
1989     116       0      116        0         0        0         0        0        0         0     -115
1990    8017       0    8017         0         0        0         0        0        0         0    -8017
1991    siao       0    5180         0         0        0         0        0        0         0    -6130
1992    4068      807    4876      428        98      619        28       51       79       697    -8778
1993       0     815      815      604       261      ss8        56      102       157     1012      697
1994       0     822      822      768      8so      1128        88      158      286      1864     1041
1995       0     880      880      915       470     1885       III      204      815      1700     1870
1998       0     888      888     1049       677     1626       188      268      896      2021     1682
1997       0     847      847     1170       608     1776       le      809      476      2252     1905
1998       0     855      866     1279       627     1906       194      3868      667     2468     2108
1999       0     864      864     1378       647     2026       221      419      640      2666     2802
2000       0      878     878     1468      s81      2284       249      476       726     8009     2688
!   2001   o     879      879     1649       944     2493       277      685      812      8305     2928
2002       0      886     886     1828      1002     2624       806      597       902     8526     8140
2003       0      892     892     1689      1069     2748       838      66o       998     8742     8860
2004       0      899     899     1749      1117     2887       862      727      1088     3956     3656
2006       0     406      406     1804      1162     2986       890      798      1lse     4162     3747
2006       0     412      412     1864      1196     8050       419      868      1288     4387     3926
2007     976     419    1894      1899      1229     8128       448      944      1898     4621     8127
2008       0     427      427     1940      1268     8208       478     1024      1602     4706     4279
2009       0     484      484     1977      1s31     8296       508     1109      1616     4912     4478
2010       0     441      441     2011      1840    3860        588     1198      1785     5088     4646
2011       0     441      441     2011      1340    a860        646     1204      1760     6100     4869
2012       0     441      441     2011      1340     3860       668     1211      1764     6114     4673
2013       0     441      441     2011      1340     sa80       60o    1217       1777     6127     4686
2014       0     441      441     2011      1340     8860       567     1222      1789     6140     4698
2016       0     441      441     2011      1340     8860       674     1227      1801     6151     4710
2016       0     441      441     2011      1340     8850       S80     1282      1812     5163     4721
2017       0     441      441     2011      1340     8860       686     1287      1828     5173     4732
2018       0     441      441     2011      1340     3350       592     1241      1838     5184     4742
2019       0     441      441     2011      1340     8850       598     1246      1843     5193     4762
2020       0     441      441     2011      1340     3360       604     1248      1852     5203     4761
2021       0     441      441     2011      1340    8360        609     1262      le8l     5211     4770
2022     975     441    1416      2011      1340    8360        614     1256      1869     5220     3804
2028       0     441      441     2011      1340     8850       620     1258      1877     6228     4787
2024       0     441      441     2011      1340     8860       624     1261      1885     6236     4794
2026       0     441      441     2011      1340    3860        629     1263      1892     6243     4801
2028       0     441      441     2011      1340    8a80        684     1286      1899     6250     4808
2027       0     441      441     2011      1340      8360      688     1268      1906     626e     4816
2028       0     441      441     2011      1340    3850        642     1270      1912     6263     4821
2029       0     441      441     2011      1340    a380        647     1272      1918     6269     4828
2030       0     441      441     2011      1340     3850       6so     1274      1924     5276     4833
2031    -390     441       51     2011      1340     3360       654     1276      1930     5280     6229
NPV @ 10  11297      8726     6049    13774      1727     3487      6214    18888    7690
Economic rate of return          15%



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Tabl* 6-2 - Determination of the Averago Incremental Cost (AIC)
____________________________________________________________
Incremental
Water   Incremental  Capital       0 A V       Total
Year consumption    flow       costs       costs       costs
------ Million .3 ----- ------------CFAF Million-----------
1988       54.6                     300                    8oo
1989       6 .3                     116                    115
1990       58.0                    8017                   8017
1991       69.7                    5180                   6180
1992       61.6        23.1        4068        307        4376
1983       68.3        24.6                     815        316
1994       65.2        26.1                     322        822
1995       67.2        27.7                     830        380
1096       69.2        29.3                    838         388
1997       71.3        30.9                    347         347
1998       73.4        32.7                     855        355
1999       76.6        34.4                     884        864
2000       77.9        38.2                     873        373
2001       79.5        37.5                     879        879
2002       81.0        38.8                     388        886
2003       82.7        40.0                     392        392
2004       84.3        41.4                     899        399
2005       88.0        42.7                    406         406
2006       87.7        44.1                    412         412
2007       89.5        45.6         976        419        1394
2008       91.3        48.9                    427         427
2009       93.1        48.4                    434         434
2010       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2011       95.0        49.9                    441         441
2012       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2013       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2014       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2015       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2016       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2017       96.0        49.9                    441         441
2018       95.0        49.9                    441         441
2019       95.0        49.9                    441         441
2020       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2021       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2022       96.0        49.9         976         441       1416
2023       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2024       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2026       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2026       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2027       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2028       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2029       95.0        49.9                     441        441
2030       96.0        49.9                     441        441
2031       95.0        49.9        -390         441         51
NPV 010 X                   214        8086        2286      10270
AIC (CFAF/m3 of effluent)          48
AIC (CFAF/m3 of consumed water)    38



IBRD 21012
ADJAME                                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INGERVILLE
DEUX PLATEAUX                                                                                        4100
ATTIE                        62,000                                                                                 -3
<   YOPOUGON         BANCovO      COUBE  154,000
160,000    NORTH __.O72,000
ADIAtQ5DOUME                                                  160,0D0                                                                     VIERA                           C. _ .._ -  72,000  ,' !   ,,,CRV
27,000                                                                        SANTE N                                    200    -       04,500                                   
A                                        ~
NIANGON                          YOPO5 ON * KOUTI       LOCOJ           LE PLATEAU                                                               _
35,0000                                 0,000       BANCO               1,6000 ,
-. ,- SOUTH    -~                                                             N       TREIHVILLE          I    a        aMARCORY       _     SOUTH
> t> \ { ~~~~~~~~110,000                        \       .t116,000 )rLag. 
.                                                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lc
t  - \                                        X t a: t                                g                   g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~KOUMASS1     ->  (-= 
BOULAY        BRARRE BOULAY            ISLAND                                                                                                                      (                        "
|   t   =   )   G=  D--- ~~~~~~-  ~~  ~ _5  - .  . -              ~        ~       ~                   t    A, A  -  B  - --4f                     < B  RI
ZONE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< v Ladie _ _ CD \ @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GONZAGUEVILLE
tv                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X ~~~Gv/&    of   Guirlec/                                                                                   - i        L      _0SO
-- A . C f i w r IT                                                                              C O  C  A N-
-I, 
%S>r/ </JV \BURKINA FASO 
.5                x    ,_-_. \N                                                                                                   C O  T E    D'I V O  I R E
u  9    xi                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
GUINEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -0 1- bo>  ~.od DI
FUTURE SEWERAGE SYSTEM:                Qeoooo  1980 Population (1cm. 100,000 inhabitants)                SAMPLING  POINTS:
_  COT D'VOIEiMain interceptor and sewers     t         H   pollution                                              In the lagoon
COTE D'IVOIRE
"                              Q     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pumping station                                                                       2    In the ocean
Flootable  removal plant                           hih   polluton                                        At the  beach                         ,    m   , _
,~ / WOcean outfall                             --     Batn  site
( ,                                 (~GHANA                                         A      Discharge of septage                 -  -    Recreation site                                   -   -s-   International boundaries
<~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~HN                                                         A      Dicareofsptg                                  Fishing aciivities
EXISTING SEWERAGE SYSTEM:                   .     F                                                                            0ctivi3                         4       s
LIBERIA   *                     ABIDJAN                                                          Main interceptor and sewers                  Industrial zones                                                             0                                        I KILOMETERS
Areoof  h<1                                                                                                                                                                                         I            I            I P           MILES
DECEMBER 1987



IbRI At" ,l
COTE D'IVOIRE
ABIDJAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
-.-  New Trunk S&wers                                   Urbon Moster Plan Boundaries
-   Existing Trunk Sewers                        ----- Abidjan Municipal Boundary
---  Drains (2nd phose, 1979-81)                       Urbon Areos
*  Ponds                                             Polluted Water
A B5 O                                                       t1Xt / Recent Sewerage and Drainage Networks  .   Heavily Polluted Water
'                         vt / Rehabilitated Sewerage and Drainoge Networks   c                      Well Fields
Nnw Floooable Removal Plant                     Weli Fields - Future Extensions
New Pumping Plants                              Forest or Park
S   {--$  '    4-1                                          '                   ('.OME 1E R5    1t ~~~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bridges  
,'a-  -                                                          -                  7        3         4         5
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _. - ' wo   _ . N. o ra u
W I\i'lLLAMSVILLE            'i
DEUX PLATEAUX
BINGERVIlLE
AKOUEDO
ADJAME                                                     ANONO
'>,<.  > Q~~~~C                                   RIVIERA| )
/~ ~ ~~~~V
\PLATEAU\                  0                                                                                   -/r
.0 \   X 1R, E  b   r  ,   e                     ,   ,                                                  '-
/                                                                                                  .f*-AROg~    r\<    
f            ;           w                                                                3                  A\g  o  o  1 larco
TR51CFfVILLE        5/;s            ,                                
KOUMASSI /         ,            ' 
ey 8,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I                                                                           /et Oo 
: VRIDi   /   
M ALI   t  BURKINA
- t- --                              r ----C  _.A    FASO
VRIDI
INDUSTRIAL                                                                               5    OEDIOR
ZONE                                        MiayCOTE D IVOIRE 
'a-'          Camp         ~~~~~~Port-Bouet/
i~C amp                                                                  Airport,' /    6    ''\
"                                                              ORT -J |O      4 \  /  LIBERIA;        Abidjons
Ocean outfall and diffuserw                      -B          B                         O U E-T*  A , O
G ~ Sulf      of        G u / n e o                             -969
JULY 1985t



