Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3155 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Abidjan Environmental Protection Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 16, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3155 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from European Investment Bank (EIB) a 
loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount of ECU 16,000,000 to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage System" means Abidjan's existing sewerage 
and drainage networks and plants, and the sewerage and environmental protection works 
to be carried out under the Project;
(b)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"DCGTx"' means Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the Borrower:
 
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year running from January 1 to 
December 31;  
(f)
"MM" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Marine;
 
(g)
"SODECI" means Societe de Distribution d'Eau de la Cote d'Ivoire;
 
(h)
"FNE" means Fonds National de l'Eau of the Borrower established under 
Decree No. 87-1472 of December 17, 1987;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Surcharge" means the surcharge levied on the water tariff, collected by 
SODECI and paid to FNE;
(k)
"Sanitation Tax" means the taxe additionnelle a la contribution fonciere 
sur les proprietes baties, established by Law No. 74-781 of December 26, 1974; and
(l)
"Concession Contract" means the Convention de Concession du Service de 
distribution publique urbaine d'eau potable en Cote d'Ivoire, between the Borrower and 
SODECI approved by Decree No. 87-1471 of December 17, 1987.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-one million nine 
hundred thousand dollars ($21,900,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of 
the Loan with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester. the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a
calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified  
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this and, shall carry out 
the Project through DCGTX with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project,
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall issue, upon completion of the works referred to 
under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and B of the Project:
(a)
Lagoon environmental protection regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, 
applicable to companies or individuals dumping the septage and sewage outside of 
septage discharge stations including those financed under the Project; and
(b)
regulations pertaining to industrial waste water effluents, and a permit 
system for said effluents, satisfactory to the Bank, taking into consideration the 
technical solution adopted for Abidjan's Lagoon environmental protection.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, before completion of the works referred to 
under Parts A.l. A.2, A.3, A.4 and B of the Project, take all necessary measures to 
adequately organize the unit within the administrative directorate in charge of water 
matters and responsible for the enforcement of regulations applicable to organic 
waste, water quality and the dumping of septage, in order to enable said unit to 
enforce said regulations, including the environmental protection regulations referred 
to under Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, before completion of the works referred to 
under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B of the Project, make arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, with a commercial company for the operation and maintenance of said works.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to introduce, not 
later than June 30, 1990, a specific monitoring program on the quality of ocean and 
lagoon waters, to be carried out by the pollution control laboratory of MM.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section,
including those for FNE and the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such. records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
take all necessary measures for the prompt deposit in FNE of the proceeds 
of the Sanitation Tax; and 
(b)
cause SODECI to transfer into FNE the proceeds of the Surcharge in 
accordance with the provisions of the Concession Contract.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower's 
operation of the Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage System shall allow to generate, for 
each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1989, revenues 
at least equal to total operating expenses of said system during the same Fiscal Year.
(b)
Before December I in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the 
results of such review.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirement 
set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's Fiscal Year covered by such review, the 
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures n order to meet such requirement.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "revenues" means the sum of total operating revenues and 
net non
operating income. 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues' means revenues from the 
Sanitation Tax and 
the portion of the Surcharge allocated to debt 
service previously carried by 
the Fonds National de l'Assainissement 
for Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage 
System.
 
(iii)
The term "net non operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues  
from all sources other than total operating revenues; 
and (B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line 
basis at a rate of 
not less than 2.4% per annum of the average current 
Page  6
gross value of Abidjan 
Sewerage and Drainage System's fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Bank, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage 
System's
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half of the 
sum of the 
gross value of said system's fixed assets in operation at 
the beginning and at 
the end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with 
sound and consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank.
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to have the 
register of all Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage System's fixed assets kept up to date, 
under the supervision of DCGTX, and to have said fixed assets annually revalued on a 
notional basis.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(i)
Subject: to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EIB Loan made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the 
EIB Loan Agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
the EIB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed
maturity thereof. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations 
under the EIB Loan Agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the EIB Loan Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and any condition
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except for the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of Economy and Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747
Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Saraka Bra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1)    Supply and      20,400,000       100%
       installation
       of sewers,
       construction
       of stations
       and equipments
       for Parts A.1
       and A.2 of the
       Project, and
       vehicles for
       Part B of the
       Project
(2)    Civil works        200,000       100%
       and equipment
       for Part A.3 of
       the Project
(3)    Goods and Works    100,000       100%
       for on-site
       sanitation
       (Part A.4 of
       the Project)
(4)    Equipment and      100,000       100%
       chemicals for
       Parts C.1 and
       C.2 of the
       Project
(5)    Consultants'       100,000       100%
       services
(6)    Unallocated      1,000,000
            TOTAL      21,900,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen Abidjan's households and 
industrial waste water disposal facilities and to restore the ecological conditions of 
Abidjan's lagoon.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Completion of the construction of the main north-south sewerage interceptor from 
Abidjan's lagoon to the Atlantic ocean (about 6.5 km).
2.
Construction of secondary and tertiary sewers for connecting the industrial 
Page  9
zones and quarters equipped with tertiary sewers to the main interceptor (about 27 
km), and construction of eight appertaining pumping stations.
3.
Construction of 10 septage discharge stations along the north-south interceptor 
and the overall sewer collecting system for septage discharge by pump trucks.
4.
Construction and equipping of a pilot sanitation component in a squatters area 
of Abidjan to achieve 1000 sewage management through appropriate individual building 
subsurface disposal system with the objective of developing appropriate design/cost 
criteria for a possible extension of this pilot approach.
Part B:
Construction of an outfall with a diffuser system to the Atlantic Ocean, 
extending to about 1.2 km offshore, including sand trap, floatable removal plant, a 
large pumping station, sludge containers and two trucks for disposal of digested 
sludge.
Part C:
1.
Acquisition of equipment and chemicals for the implementation by the Ministry in 
charge of Industry of the permit system for industrial waste discharge into the Lagoon 
and the sewers networks.
2.
Acquisition of equipment and chemicals for the pollution control laboratory of 
MM and of the Centre de Recherches Oceanographiques for monitoring of the lagoon and 
ocean water quality.
3.
Feasibility study of, and preparation of a master plan for, Abidjan's entire 
sanitation and environmental protection system.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDUlE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
     May 1, 1995                             
  400,000
     November 1, 1995                        
  415,000
     May 1,1996                              
  430,000
     November 1, 1996                        
  445,000
     May 1, 1997                             
  465,000
     November 1, 1997                        
  480,000
     May 1, 1998                             
  500,000
     November 1, 1998                        
  520,000
     May 1, 1999                             
  540,000
     November 1, 1999                        
  560,000
     May 1, 2000                             
  585,000
     November 1, 2000                        
  605,000
     May 1, 2001                             
  630,000
     November 1, 2001                        
  655,000
     May 1, 2002                             
  680,000
     November 1, 2002                        
  705,000
     May 1, 2003                             
  735,000
     November 1, 2003                        
  760,000
     May 1, 2004                             
  790,000
     November 1, 2004                        
  820,000
     May 1, 2005                             
  855,000
     November 1, 2005                        
  885,000
     May 1, 2006                             
  920,000
     November 1, 2006                        
  955,000
     May 1, 2007                             
  995,000
Page  10
     November 1, 2007                       
1,030,000
     May 1, 2008                            
1,070,000
     November 1, 2008                       
1,110,000
     May 1, 2009                            
1,155,000
     November 1, 2009                       
1,205,000
___________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as at
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of CFAF 150,000,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
Page  11
A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF 3,000,000,000 per 
contract, excluding value added tax, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of CFAF 150,000,000 per contract excluding value added tax, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, in 
accordance with paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, with local advertising for contracts 
for equipment and vehicles and, in addition, notification of diplomatic missions in 
Cote d'Ivoire in the case of contracts for works, all in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of CFAF 500,000,000 or more excluding value added tax, and with respect to 
each contract for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of CFAF 
50,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank, 
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section
4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  12
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount  equivalent to CFAF 
100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents, and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments: in respect 
of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been made out, of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence shoving that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the, Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining an deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
Page  13
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
