Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    FRI twl
Report No. P-2957-Po
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
PETROLEOS DE PORTUGAL, E.P.
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
June 5, 1981
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornnee ofi
their oficial dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1980                  February 1981
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
$1 = Esc. 50.1                       Esc. 56.5
Esc. 1 = US$   0.020                      US$   0.018
Exchange Rate Used for Cost Calculations
$1 = Esc. 53.7
Esc. = US$   0.019
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)                    2.20 Pounds
1 Ton                           =  1,000 Kilograms
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (TOE)  =  10 Million Kilocalories (kcal)
1 MTOE                          =  1 Million TOE
1 Barrel                        =  42 US Gallons
1 Terawatt-Hour (TWh)           =  1 Billion Kilowatt-Hours (KWh)
1 Megawatt (MW)                 =  1,000 Kilowatts (KW)
1 Square Kilometer (km2)        =  1.20 Million Square Yards
1 Cubic Kilometer (km3)         =  1.31 Billion Cubic Yards
1 Contos                        =  1,000 Escudos
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
API            American Petroleum Institute
BFN            Banco de Fomento Nacional
BIS            Bank for International Settlements
CNN            Companhia Nacional de Navegacao
CP             Public Railway Company
CPTM           Companhia Portuguesa de Transportes Maritimos
DFC(s)         Development Finance Company(ies)
DGE            Directorate General for Energy
EDP            Electricidade de Portugal, E.P.
EEC            European Economic Community
EFTA           European Free Trade Association
EIB            European Investment Bank
GPEP           Office for Petroleum Exploration and Production
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LIBOR          London Interbank Offered Rate
MIE            Ministry of Industry and Energy
MLT            Medium- and Long-Term
PETROGAL       Petroleos de Portugal, E.P.
SMI            Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
TAP            Portuguese Airlines
WHO            World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Petroleos de Portugal, E.P. (PETROGAL)
Guarantor:       Republic of Portugal
Amount:          US$20 million equivalent
Terms:           15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 9.6
percent per annum
Project
Description:  The proposed project is aimed at enhancing Portugal's pros-
pects for discovering petroleum by improving PETROGAL's
current exploration strategy and strengthening its overall
technical capabilities in petroleum exploration; it would
also assist the country in evaluating its known heavy oil
deposits. The project includes: (a) two seismic surveys,
totalling about 850 km and provision for some 3-D seismic
work to better resolve structural complexities, and
reprocessing of seismic data; (b) drilling three exploratory
wells to an average depth of about 2,500 to 3,000 meters;
(c) technical assistance to PETROGAL, consisting of a senior
explorationist, petroleum geophysicist, together with dril-
ling management services, to help implement its exploration
program; (d) laboratory services for analyzing existing and
new source rock data and reservoir characteristics; (e) a
screening study of existing data concerning heavy oil
development; and (f) a planning study for PETROGAL. The
combined seismic and well drilling program has been designed
to provide an important first step in evaluating the
petroleum potential of PETROGAL's license areas. A dis-
covery of even modest size would be immediately beneficial
to the national economy since the refineries and market are
nearby, and could rekindle interest by the petroleum
industry in further exploration in Portugal's onshore area.
The seismic surveys, technical assistance and laboratory
studies are designed to assist in the definition of sound
drillable prospects, and reduce exploration risks. The
exploratory drilling component entails the normal risks
inherent in oil exploration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                            ---------$ Millions--------
Local     Foreign      Total
Seismic Surveys and Data Processing         0.80        6.20        7.00
Three Exploratory Wells                     1.86       10.15       12.01
Technical Assistance                        0.12        0.80        0.92
Laboratory Services                         0.04        0.24        0.28
Heavy Oil Study                             0.01        0.11        0.12
PETROGAL Planning Study                     0.40        0.20        0.60
Base Cost                                 3.23       17.70       20.93
Physical Contingencies                      0.50        2.76        3.26
Price Contingencies                         0.47        1.34        1.81
Total Project Cost                          4.20       21.80       26.00
Financing Plan:                            --------$ Millions---------
Local     Foreign      Total
PETROGAL                                    4.20        1.80        6.00
World Bank Loan                              -         20.00       20.00
Total Financing                             4.20       21.80       26.00
Estimated Disbursement:                      -$ Millions-
Bank FY    1982    1983
Annual                         14.0     6.0
Cumulative                     14.0    20.0
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Appraisal Report:      No separate report has been prepared.
Map:                   IBRD 15422, January 1981



THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PETROLEOS DE PORTUGAL, E.P. (PETROGAL) FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Petroleos de Portugal, E.P. (PETROGAL), for the equivalent of US$20 mil-
lion to help finance a petroleum exploration project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
economy was radically transformed. The banks, insurance companies, power
companies, major transportation agencies and the large industrial groups were
nationalized. A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and
southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and
workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints
were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment
and social security benefits were increased. The expectations of improved
living standards, generated by the revolution, produced rapid increases in
real wages and private consumption in the period to 1977, significant
improvements in income distribution and large increases in public expendi-
tures and deficits, necessitating rapid monetary expansion. The general
circumstances of the revolutionary period and its aftermath also generated a
serious deterioration in the profitability and general financial position of
the private sector, and a significant decline in foreign reserves.
4.        The difficulties facing the Portuguese economy were compounded in
the immediate post-revolution period by three major factors: (i) the dra-
matic oil price increase of end-1973 which resulted in a sharp deterioration
in Portugal's terms of trade; (ii) the return of more than half a million
Portuguese from the overseas colonies to the mainland; and (iii) the onset of
recession in Europe with reduced demand for Portuguese emigrant labor, export
commodities and tourist facilities. The combination of these external
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Second Banco de Fomento Nacional loan, which was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 13, 1981.



factors with the structural changes brought about by the revolution resulted
initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments. The current
surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large deficit in 1975, which
increased to $1,500 million by 1977. Thus, the period 1974-77 saw Portugal
fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private consumption
and meeting the investment needs of the economy in the face of continuing
adverse external conditions. By 1977, real consumption per capita had
increased by about 10 percent over the 1973 level, both the external current
account and the domestic budget were substantially in deficit, and the level
of inflation was 27 percent, while open unemployment was over 300,000 (i.e.,
about 8 percent of the resident labor force).
5.        A program of austerity measures, including currency devaluations,
was implemented in 1976 and 1977 but its impact was reduced by the continued
rapid expansion of credit, mainly to finance the government deficit. In
early May 1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of
payments deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken
to stabilize the economic situation included: Ci) a 6.5 percent devaluation
of the escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the
escudo at a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point in-
crease in the rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and
lending rates; (iii) ceilings on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase
in taxes; (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for
water, electricity, gas and transportation, and essential food products; and
(vi) continued restrictions on allowable wage rate increases. The measures
were effective in reducing the balance of payments current account deficit
from $1,500 million in 1977 to $800 million in 1978. This improvement was
associated with a substantial decline in real wages and a reduction in the
inflation rate to 22 percent. The continuation of similar policies in 1979
produced even more dramatic results with the balance of payments current
account showing a surplus of $150 million, export volumes rising by 27
percent and import volumes rising at only about 6 percent. Nonetheless the
visible deficit increased slightly as a consequence of the substantial oil
price increase during the year and a massive 60 percent increase in migrants'
remittances was necessary to produce the overall balance of payments improve-
ment. In early 1980, the focus of policy shifted to control of inflation and
a 6 percent revaluation was implemented in February. Together with continued
credit restraint and price controls, this has helped to bring the inflation
rate to a level somewhat less than 20 percent. The crawling-peg devaluation
was continued at 0.75 percent per month to June 1980 and thereafter was
reduced to 0.5 percent per month.
6.        The major price which Portugal has had to pay for its remarkable
performance in the external sector has been a sluggish rate of growth (3.2
and 3.7 percent in the past two years). This has been inadequate to make any
real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent), and has contributed to an
average growth rate of consumption of only 0.5 percent per annum in the past
three years. The emphasis on short-run stabilization has also delayed the
formulation of policies to address the serious structural problems which



-3-
Portugal faces, some of which were created or exacerbated by the events of
1974/75. Particularly important is the large dependence on imported energy,
the rising dependence on food imports, a backward agricultural sector, an
industrial sector--large parts of which still require heavy protection, an
ill-defined attitude to public enterprises and a weak tax structure. Despite
rising confidence in Portugal's economic and political stability, investment
has been very disappointing in recent years (it fell in real terms in 1979),
and has certainly not been adequate given the very considerable investment
needs of the economy.
A Growth Strategy for the Eighties
7.        The success of short-term stabilization policies in 1978 and 1979
should lay the basis for increased growth of the Portuguese economy in the
next decade. While no actions should be taken which would jeopardize the
recent economic gains, a gradual policy of economic expansion now appears
feasible. A doubling of per capita income by the year 2000 would seem to be
an attainable goal, which implies an annual average GDP growth rate of 4.5
percent over the period (assuming a 0.9 percent population growth). However,
this performance will have to be achieved in the face of some considerable
constraints. First and foremost, it is clear that any policy for the medium
term should allow for rates of growth of consumption which are substantially
better than those of recent years. The 20 percent decline in industrial real
wages since 1976 should not be expected to persist since it has now largely
eliminated the gains of the immediate post-revolution period. On the con-
trary, rising real wages and consumption gains of the order of 2 percent per
annum in per capita terms should be anticipated. Second, Portugal's import
dependence is likely to continue to rise as the economy is increasingly
opened up to competition from the European Economic Community (EEC). This
will be exacerbated by the large rise in the import price of petroleum
products. This factor alone added nearly $1,000 million to the oil import
bill and increased the 1979 visible deficit by nearly 50 percent. If the
target growth rate is to be achieved in spite of this and other structural
weaknesses on the import side, Portugal will require a rate of growth of
visible exports significantly higher than the growth of world trade.
Portugal will also need to retain policies which can maintain migrants'
remittances at a high level. This will require careful balancing on the part
of the Government since the measures which could ensure a reasonable balance
of payments position may, at the same time, discourage investment and slow
the rate of growth.
8.        Certainly the position defined above will require Portugal to fully
exploit its potential comparative advantage vis-a-vis the EEC, which the
country expects to join in the mid-eighties. In the industrial sector this
will mean an emphasis on labor-intensive industries, both light industries,
such as textiles and footwear, and heavier items, including electrical
machinery and transport equipment. This will imply a substantial, and
possibly painful, rehabilitation process in some cases (e.g., textiles).
Portugal's industrial strategy is also complicated by the fact that its wage



- 4 -
advantage will be eroded and that intensified competition from the Far East
will become a problem for some products in which Portugal may have a compara-
tive advantage for the moment. This suggests the need for a planned approach
to future industrialization. Hopefully this will be assisted by finance,
advice and trading concessions from the existing members of the EEC.
Although Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the
development of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be
pursued whenever adequate rates of return can be demonstrated. In the case
of steel, for example, it may be legitimate for Portugal to expand capacity
in areas such as non-flat products where capacity elsewhere in the EEC is
unlikely to be expanded.
9.        In the case of agriculture, the acceptance of EEC policy will raise
prices to consumers but, at the same time, cause a net flow of resources into
agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability of various
agricultural items. Portugal needs to respond to this opportunity and
thereby reduce the very large trade deficit in agricultural items. The
necessary response is to modernize and increase investment in those items
such as fruits, off-season vegetables and, possibly, vegetable oils where the
climate and early season confer a strong comparative advantage. Moderni-
zation in other more traditional agricultural crops is desirable even in the
absence of EEC entry, but would also help to ward off the threat of more
intensive European competition.
10.       The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in 1976,
in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not imple-
mented. Work is now underway to launch the preparation of a medium-term
public investment program. The challenge for Portuguese planners and policy-
makers is to increase domestic savings, promote exports, and boost employment
within the limits of the constraints defined above. It is estimated that an
investment program of about Esc. 1,000 billion (in constant 1978 prices) for
the period 1980-84 in industry (27 percent), housing and construction (18
percent), agriculture, transport and communications and power (8 to 9 percent
each), and health, education and other services (29 percent), could produce
an aggregate GDP growth rate of 4.5 percent per annum over the same period.
However, to implement investments of this magnitude in a timely fashion, new
institutional arrangements would be required to streamline decision making,
as well as project preparation, implementation and supervision. As regards
public enterprises, there is a need to define a medium-term strategy which
will differentiate between their social and economic objectives. Thereafter
subsidy, pricing and other policies towards public enterprises should be
freed as far as possible from political intervention, thereby allowing
investment decisions to be made in the light of a clear understanding of the
future policy environment. For the moment, the development of these enter-
prises and external lending to them is significantly hindered by the fact
that this is not done.
11.       The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment target indicated above. The Government



- 5 -
has recently established an integrated scheme of incentives for private
investment and has improved arrangements for compensating owners of assets
nationalized in 1974/75. However, private investment is still hindered by
several factors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still
relatively low by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the
near future. Credit availabilities to the private sector are restricted by
the continuing large public sector borrowing requirement, although in the
absence of strong private sector demand, this has not been a major constraint
in the past. Potential investors have considered current interest rates too
high. Like its predecessors, the new incentive scheme is essentially
designed to mitigate the perceived high cost of capital for selected invest-
ments. Economic viability is a prerequisite for larger investments and an
important factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the new
scheme provides modest additional encouragement to exports and its choice of
sectoral priorities will require monitoring. However, the very large
increase in exports in 1979 indicates the potential of the private sector in
the new stable environment.
12.       Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. Improvement is a
matter of correcting deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the
revolution, of reorganizing the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and
strengthening its inadequate field services. Extension is weak in terms of
personnel and of the links with the research effort on the one hand, and with
small farmers and cooperatives on the other. The training and education of
agricultural manpower and of farmers have been insufficient in the past and
recent efforts in this area need to be further intensified. Credit to the
rural sector has neither been adequate nor production-oriented and the
mechanisms of agricultural credit need to be reviewed. Fertilizer applica-
tion rates are low. The situation has deteriorated since 1974 due to prob-
lems with agrarian reform and changes in land tenure. Investment alone will
achieve little without substantial advances in these other areas as well.
Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are underway.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to
Portugal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support
and for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de Portugal
has obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank
for International Settlements (BIS) and European central banks. In addition,
as of mid-1980, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal
amounted to about $180 million. The European Economic Community (EEC),
European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free Trade Association (EFTA), as
well as bilateral agencies have committed significant funds to Portugal in
emergency concessionary aid and for long-term projects. The Bank's contribu-
tion is summarized in Part II.  Starting in 1977, Portugal received $750
million in medium- and long-term (MLT) aid commitments as balance of payments
support from 14 countries, with the US, Germany and Japan being the main



- 6 -
contributors. In addition, Banco de Portugal converted about half of its
$1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium- and long-term debt. In
large part because of Portugal's gold reserve, the Government and major banks
and companies are able to attract medium-term loans from consortia of commer-
cial banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent terms have been reasonable
with ten years repayment at an average interest rate of about 0.7 percent
over LIBOR.  The Government's efforts to stimulate direct foreign investment
have resulted in a $600 million commitment by Renault and in the promise of
other substantial investments. Portugal will however continue to require
sizeable external inflows for the investment necessary to restructure its
economy. The multilateral lenders, and in particular, the World Bank and the
EEC/EIB, will have to continue to play a vital role in helping Portugal meet
its capital requirements. Pre-accession aid proposed by the European
Commission, for example, is a package of about $385 million.
14.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $1,400 million at end 1977
to about $3,400 million at end 1979. Service payments on this debt rose from
3.7 percent of exports of goods and services plus workers' remittances in
1977 to 5.5 percent in 1979. These figures include the portion of Banco de
Portugal debt held in MLT form. This amounted to $346 million in 1977 and
$1,035 million in 1979. In addition, private non-guaranteed MLT debt has
risen from about $1,000 million in 1977 to $1,925 million in 1979. This
gives a total outstanding debt of about $5,300 million and a debt service
ratio of 12 percent. Portugal's total debt outstanding still remains at
manageable levels and presents an improved maturity profile. The debt
service ratio is expected to rise to about 19 percent by the middle of the
decade. Given Portugal's gold reserves of about 22 million troy ounces, this
seems a perfectly acceptable burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
15.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with
government priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing
industrial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three
thermal and two hydropower projects, which were successfully completed.
16.       The events of the more recent past have created special problems;
the transition to an open political system has revealed social and economic
weaknesses which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The Bank
has responded to Portugal's needs through identification, preparation and
financing of projects and through economic and sector work.
17.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's nineteenth project in
that country, the fourteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank
operations since 1976 involved a power project, two highway projects, three
industrial finance projects, two education projects, water supply, agri-



-7-
cultural and fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer modernization and
mechanical industries projects. Total Bank financial assistance since the
resumption of lending amounts to $618 million. Lack of experience with Bank
procedures has caused delays in earlier projects. However, this problem has
been substantially eliminated by the increasing familiarity of the adminis-
tration with these procedures and the resolve to initiate procurement prepar-
ations as early as possible. The 1976 power loan is fully disbursed; other
1976-1977 loans are committed and substantially disbursed without further
problems. Looking at the 1978-1980 loans, projects involving direct lending
to industry are progressing well and disbursing without major problems, and
development finance company loans are expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Projects directly implemented by the administration, or largely controlled by
it, are slow in execution and disbursement. The main reasons for this are
administrative weaknesses, such as lack of continuity and insufficient
coordination, as well as little experience in project preparation, implemen-
tation and supervision. Some of these problems are in the course of being
eliminated;-others are currently addressed by institutional components in
project design and by across-the-board reviews of weaknesses with the purpose
of finding and implementing solutions. Nevertheless, total Bank exposure in
Portugal is still small. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
as of April 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have provided
a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of the
water supply (together with WHO) and education sectors were carried out and
were discussed with the Government in March 1977. Agriculture and manufac-
turing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export
Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal Agricultural
Survey" (No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March
24, 1978. As a major problem, unemployment has received particular atten-
tion; a report which sums up the results of a Bank survey, entitled
"Unemployment in Portugal: Causes, Prospects and Policy Options" (No.
2285-PO), was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. A
survey of the proposed public medium-term investments was carried out in June
1979 and a report entitled "Priorities for Public Sector Investment" (No.
2883-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 12, 1980. This
report has served the Government in establishing investment priorities.
19.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned
above, agriculture and industry have been identified as the areas of concen-
tration for Bank lending. The industrial sector needs major structural
improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises and
modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced in
the fertilizer and mechanical industry subsectors and are being studied for



- 8 -
textile and steel subsectors with Bank support and advice; work is well
advanced on a steel subsector project. Another important constraint to
industrial development has been insufficient financial and technical support
to small- and medium-size enterprises; the FY79 Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry (SMI) Development loan is addressing this need. The recently
approved Second Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) loan will support
medium-sized projects above the SMI range. The importance of developing the
industrial sector cannot be overemphasized since this sector will be the main
force in the Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, to continue with
the export expansion which started in 1978 and to maintain competitiveness in
the EEC. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural
reform, export promotion, employment creation (or preservation) and promoting
energy-saving investments. A project for industrial energy-saving
investments is now under preparation. In agriculture, a sector beset by
major problems, there is considerable scope for stepping up growth. The
major constraints are the still unsettled land tenure conditions,
institutional weaknesses and a shortage of trained technicians for promoting
improved technologies. The Bank has assisted the Government in creating an
agricultural credit institution and in FY80 approved a loan for a forestry
project. Further operations in this sector are likely to foster
agroindustries, fisheries, rural development and extension. The trained
manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors, which
constitute a serious bottleneck particularly in agriculture, are being
addressed through the FY78 and the FY80 Education loans. The improvements in
transportation required to sustain the increased output of the agricultural
and industrial sectors are being addressed by the FY76 and the FY79 Highway
loans, and a railways project is under preparation. The proposed loan will
help Portugal to develop its ability to assess the oil production potential
in areas where oil shows have been encountered.
20.       The deflationary policies of 1977-1979 (para. 5), while contribut-
ing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted imple-
mentation of development programs now urgently needed in many sectors. Heavy
dependence on imported oil and a rapidly increasing oil bill is accentuating
the constraints to development. If the restructuring needs of the economy
are to be tackled seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the social
sectors corrected, long-term external assistance will be needed to assist
Portugal. It is the World Bank's objective to contribute to these efforts
and to provide advice on institutional reforms which are crucial for
Portugal's long-term economic objectives.
PART III - PETROLEUM SECTOR
Background
21.       With few domestic energy resources of its own and as yet no commer-
cially exploitable oil or natural gas resources, Portugal is heavily depen-
dent (70 percent) on imported oil for its energy supply. The oil import
bill, which was just over $100 million in 1973, climbed to about $2 billion



- 9 -
in 1980; oil imports, as a share of export earnings, are estimated to have
increased from some 5 percent to about 45 percent in the same period.
Portugal's inability to adjust its economy to the high cost of imported
energy is one of the most important issues affecting its current stabili-
zation efforts and may further defer progress on key development needs. Its
energy strategy for the eighties should focus on increased conservation and
diversification efforts, as well as development of its modest domestic energy
resource base, including more intensified exploration for petroleum.
Energy Context
22.       Consumption.  Primary energy consumption in Portugal, totalling
over 11 million tons of oil equivalent (MTOE) in 1979, on average grew about
8 percent per annum during 1975-79. Per capita energy consumption increased
by more than 50 percent during the seventies; nevertheless, it remains
relatively low (at 1.2 tons of oil equivalent (TOE) per capita 1/) as
compared with Western Europe (3 TOE in 1976), but considerably above that for
middle-income developing countries (0.6 TOE in 1976). Industry, transporta-
tion and power generation are the main consumers, accounting for some 75-80
percent of energy use in recent years. Portugal's energy network was built
at a time when it had access to cheap oil; its electricity generation system
as well as the energy-intensive industries launched in the late sixties
reflect this. Energy consumption in the eighties is forecast to grow at an
average annual rate of nearly 6 percent, in line with the expected economic
growth and industrial development (Annex IV gives actual and projected energy
balances for 1965-1990).
23.       Domestic Energy Resources.  Hydropower and small amounts of coal
and wood are Portugal's only domestic energy resources and supply less
than 30 percent of total primary energy requirements. Hydropower has
contributed about 20 percent of the nation's primary energy supply over
recent years, although its share is expected to decline in the eighties as
new thermal stations are brought on stream (first oil-fired and later
coal-fired). Of an overall potential of 22 terawatt-hours (TWh) of hydro-
power (5 MTOE), nearly 60 percent has been developed, is under construction,
or is firmly planned, and another 10 percent might be added through expansion
and modification of existing sites. The public power authority expects that
the remaining hydropower potential, although technically more difficult to
harness, will in most part be exploited by the end of the century given
expected costs and availability of energy alternatives.
24.       Proven recoverable coal reserves are about 5 million tons of poor
quality coal (2 MTOE), with current production just meeting the requirements
of a small thermal station and supplying less than 1 percent of the nation's
energy. Recoverable lignite reserves of a little over 30 million tons (4-5
MTOE) are not presently utilized, although a lignite-fired power station is
under consideration by the power authority. Industrial and domestic use of
wood and other non-commercial fuels amounts to some 5 percent of today's
1/ Primary energy basis; 0.86 TOE per capita in terms of final consumption.



- 10 -
primary energy supply. Their use, in the longer term, is expected to be
supplemented or replaced by solar, wind, biomass, and other renewable forms
of energy. Finally, the only significant mineral resource for power genera-
tion discovered to date in Portugal is uranium. Reserves, estimated at
over 8,000 tons, are enough to fuel three 1000 megawatt (MW) reactors for 25
years; development, beyond mining for export and stockpiling, is awaiting a
firm decision on whether to proceed with a first Portuguese nuclear power
station.
25.       Energy Policy.  The basic thrust of the Government's energy policy
for the eighties comprises (i) energy conservation, (ii) diversification away
from imported oil, and (iii) development/utilization of domestic resources,
including intensified petroleum exploration activity. A range of conserva-
tion measures have been introduced since 1973. The Government's overall
target is a 10-15 percent energy savings across the board over the next five
years. One of the major conservation efforts has been the Directorate
General for Energy's (DGE) program of financial assistance for conversion to
energy-saving technologies. This program was initiated in 1976 in industry,
and efforts are currently underway to extend it to the commercial and
services sector. A study of the transportation sector's use of energy is
ongoing with preliminary results expected in mid-1981. At the same time,
however, there remain certain shortcomings in the Government's overall
conservation policies in regard to pricing, which the Government intends to
review (paras. 34-38).
26.       The present investment strategy in the power subsector envisages
the substitution of imported coal for oil in new thermal stations and the
full use of hydropower. Work is underway on renewables, particularly wind
and solar energy, where bilateral aid sources have expressed interest in
sponsoring demonstration projects. Development of a long-term energy plan by
the Government of Portugal is expected in 1982, following the ongoing energy
review being undertaken jointly with the US Department of Energy.
Petroleum Consumption Patterns
27.       Portugal imported 7.62 million tons of crude oil and 1.34 million
tons of petroleum products for domestic consumption and exported 0.75 million
tons of products in 1979. Despite the fact that its dependence on petroleum
has grown from some 50 percent of its primary energy requirements in 1965
to 70 percent today, Portugal has begun, in recent years, to curb the trend
toward even further dependence on petroleum: demand for crude oil/products
grew at an estimated average annual rate approaching 9.5 percent over the
period 1965-75, slackened to just over 7.5 percent for 1975-79, and is
forecast to stay in line with or slightly below the rest of energy demand in
the eighties. Heavy fuel oil and gasoil together account for nearly 70
percent (45 and 24 percent respectively in 1979) of petroleum products
consumed in Portugal. Industry, road transport, and thermal power genera-
tion (33, 31, and 16 percent, respectively, in 1979) account for some 80
percent of domestic consumption. Use of fuel oil in power generation has



- 11 -
more than doubled in the last five years, and now accounts for over one-third
of total fuel oil consumption.  Gasoline consumption has declined slightly,
however, while gasoil has risen by nearly 60 percent since the mid-seventies,
reflecting its increased use in transportation due primarily to the retail
price differential between the two products (Annex IV details petroleum
products supply and use in 1979).
Petroleum Resource Potential
28.       Portugal has no commercially exploitable petroleum resources as
yet. Two areas, however, are considered to have prospects for the discovery
of oil and gas: the Lusitanian Basin, which will be the focus of the pro-
posed project, and the Algarve Basin (see map). An important indication of
the prospectiveness of the Lusitanian Basin is that 60 of the 110 exploratory
wells drilled to date encountered oil shows. Some 45 of these encountered
heavy/viscous oil shows.l/ The oil shows are not distributed randomly in the
geologic section as all are found in either Middle Jurassic carbonates or
Upper Jurassic carbonates and sandstones, thus narrowing the search. This
evidence confirms that oil has been generated in the Lusitanian Basin al-
though if discoveries are made, small field sizes (of the order of 25 million
barrels or less recoverable oil reserves, capable of producing 6,000-8,000
barrels per day) are likely to be the norm due to geological complexities
resulting from basin inversion late in geological time (Annex VII, paras. 4
and 5). Nevertheless, with continued increases in oil prices, relatively low
anticipated development costs because of accessibility and relatively shallow
oil objectives, and proximity to refineries, the exploitation of discoveries
in this size range is still likely to be economic although not necessarily
attractive for international oil companies. The development of known heavy
oil deposits may also be economic in light of oil price trends and technical
advances in the stimulation processes for recovery.
29.       The Algarve Basin is the other prospective area which holds promise
for discovering petroleum. Although the three wells in the offshore Algarve
Basin to date were dry holes, recent offshore gas discoveries made just
across the Spanish border have enhanced the attractiveness of this basin to
private oil companies (para. 32) (Annex VI gives further details on the
hydrocarbon prospects of Portugal).
Petroleum Exploration Policy and Present Activity
30.       Portugal has consistently followed an "open door" policy with
respect to exploration for petroleum and natural gas, welcoming foreign
participants and currently treating Petroleos de Portugal, E.P. (PETROGAL),
the national oil company, on a par with foreign oil companies. Portugal's
1/ The petroleum industry generally designates heavy oil when gravity falls
below 200 API (Amercian Petroleum Institute gravity measure). Based on
sparse data, the shallow oil shows in Portugal are very heavy, 10-120
API. Except in rare circumstances, the very heavy oil requires thermal
stimulation to produce even at relatively low rates.



- 12 -
overall legal-contractual framework regulating petroleum exploration and
exploitation provides a reasonable balance between the rights and obligations
of the concerned parties and sufficient flexibility to negotiate terms
specific to a given location.
31.       In the past, the Government has played a rather passive role in
domestic exploration, being engaged principally in offering acreage to oil
companies and evaluating offers. As a result, past exploration activity has
generally been sporadic; although 90 onshore wells have been drilled since
1939, there have been no deep exploratory wells (i.e. greater than 1,000
meters in depth) onshore in the last 17 years until just recently. Offshore
exploration began in 1973 and has included 21,000 line-km of seismic surveys
and 23 wells, the last one completed early in 1979.
32.       Recognizing the need to expedite exploration efforts, the
Government began to review existing exploration data and to provide improved
incentives to attract foreign oil companies. In the spring of 1978, a widely
advertised promotion of the onshore blocks took place (see map). PETROGAL, a
public enterprise, was the only oil company that responded initially and was
awarded a license on blocks 48-49-50 in the Lusitanian Basin in July 1978.
About six months later, two additional licenses were awarded, one to PETROGAL
on blocks 45-46-47 and the other to a Canadian joint venture headed by
Sceptre Resources, Ltd., on block 43. Later in 1980 licenses were also
awarded to Union Texas, a subsidiary of Allied Chemical, in the onshore
Lusitanian Basin, and to Esso, which recently signed an agreement to explore
in the deep water portion of the Algarve Basin just west of the Spanish
border.
33.       PETROGAL, encouraged by the Government to seek foreign oil company
partners to strengthen its own technical capabilities in exploration, entered
into a joint venture with Shell on its first license. A year later, and
after an investment of some $2 million in seismic surveys, Shell withdrew.
Since Shell's interest amounted to only 25 percent, it is likely that it did
not consider the prospects of sufficient size to justify its continued
participation. After endeavoring, without success, to attract another
partner, PETROGAL decided to continue on its own and requested Bank assis-
tance in the exploration of its two licenses in April 1980.
Petroleum Pricing
34.       The Government sets both retail and ex-refinery prices for major
petroleum products. Ex-refinery prices are based on an import parity system
to encourage efficient domestic refinery operations. Retail prices of
individual products have a two-tiered structure as is the pattern in many
other middle-income developing countries: petroleum products for private use
such as gasoline have been taxed heavily, while petroleum products used in
key economic sectors such as industry and power, as well as in public
transportation, have been taxed less or, in some cases, subsidized. The
Government's pricing policy has further been geared to generate substantial



- 13 -
tax revenues from petroleum products which have been channeled through the
Commodities Supply Fund to subsidize agriculture. In recent years, however,
these surpluses have been seriously eroded, and the current level and
structure of petroleum product prices presents both economic and financial
problems (the table below and Annex V detail the price structure of petroleum
products in Portugal).
35.       On average, petroleum product prices in Portugal are still signifi-
cantly above their equivalent import price. The weighted average retail
price of the major refined products in December 1980 was $1.29 per gallon
(equivalent to some $54 per barrel), in line with that in middle-income
oil-importing countries, although somewhat below that in Europe in general.
This high average price, however, conceals certain problems in the relative
structure of oil prices. The price of fuel oil is low; it is below its
equivalent import cost ($169 per ton in December 1980 compared with a cif
import price of $235 per ton) and below its ex-refinery price. It is also
low in relation to fuel oil prices in other oil-importing developing
countries such as Turkey, Thailand, and India. Since fuel oil accounts for
nearly half of the petroleum products consumed in Portugal, its low price is
largely responsible for the deterioration in the sector's fiscal contribution
to the Government budget. It has further encouraged the rapid growth of fuel
oil consumption in the power and industrial sectors. Another pricing problem
is the large differential between the retail prices of gasoline and gasoil
which are close substitutes in the transport sector. Retail prices of
gasoline in Portugal have historically been among the highest in Europe, and
their contribution to sector revenues substantial. The price of gasoil
(diesel fuel), although well above its cif import cost ($0.98 per gallon in
December 1980), is presently about half the domestic price of gasoline.
Since the mid-seventies, consumption of gasoil on the regulated market in
Portugal has risen by nearly 60 percent compared with an overall increase in
petroleum product consumption of about 40 percent, the increase in
consumption being attributable to rising commercial and private vehicle usage
of gasoil as well as to its intended market of public transportation; at the
same time, gasoline consumption has declined markedly since 1976. In an
effort to indirectly reduce the pricing differential and thereby curb the
increased usage of gasoil by at least private diesel automobiles, the
Government has recently levied an annual tax of about $600 on these vehicles
for the use of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications.
RETAIL PRICES FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, DECEMBER 1980
(US dollars per US Gallon)
Portugal   Italy  France  Turkey  Thailand  India 2/
Premium Gasoline              3.55       3.36    2.97      -         -        -
Regular Gasoline              3.27       3.23    2.80    2.45       2.22    2.60
Kerosene                      1.60        -        -      1.53      1.14    0.78
Gasoil                        1.60       1.29    2.14    1.53       1.38    1.26
Fuel Oil (US$ per ton)         169        197 1/  230 1/  295        230      322
1/ FOB refinery.
2/ January 1981 prices.



- 14 -
36.       The deterioration noted above in the revenue generating capability
of the petroleum sector has been a particularly serious outcome of the
Government's pricing policies. Revenue generated from the sale of petroleum
products has been the major contributor to the public financing mechanism,
the Commodities Supply Fund (Fundo de Abastecimento). This Fund was created
in 1947 to stabilize the cost of living by subsidizing selected commodities,
mainly basic food items, some fuels, and agricultural inputs. It still
serves the same basic objectives by (i) channeling profits on petroleum
operations to subsidize agriculture, (ii) cross-subsidizing petroleum pro-
ducts, (iii) serving as a buffer between monthly ex-refinery price increases
and less frequent retail price increases, and (iv) reimbursing petroleum
product distributors for geographic distribution expenses; it is further used
to finance energy-related expenditures which might otherwise come out of the
Government budget. In 1979, the aggregate resources of the Supply Fund
amounted to $545 million, or 10 percent of Government revenues. The petro-
leum sector's gross contribution to the Supply Fund was some $346 million;
subsequent outlays from the Fund for petroleum product subsidies and other
energy expenditures amounted to $218 million, thereby reducing the sectoral
contribution to $128 million. Since the mid-seventies, outlays for the
petroleum sector as a share of its contributions to the Supply Fund have
increased from some 30 percent to over 70 percent. Projections for 1981
based on current petroleum product prices indicate that the net contribution
from the petroleum sector itself would be negative, largely due to the
projected level of the fuel oil subsidy, unless further price increases take
place before the end of the year.
37.       One further shortcoming in Portugal's current pricing policies is
that the import parity system of setting ex-refinery prices (para. 34) does
not presently ensure the financial viability of PETROGAL's refining and
marketing operations (para. 61). The company complies with the Central Bank
directive of covering its foreign exchange needs out of extended credit
arrangements (para. 62); this assists the country in diversifying foreign
exchange borrowing but involves an additional cost for PETROGAL which would
not be incurred under normal industry practices. Under these circumstances,
ex-refinery prices should cover the full cost of purchasing and refining
crude oil, including the large net borrowing costs incurred in importing
crude oil with external credit. PETROGAL has recently submitted a proposal
to the Government for product pricing on an actual cost basis. The
Government intends to implement gradual increases in ex-refinery prices over
the medium-term aimed at attaining the above objective (para. 67).
38.       The Government provided assurances that it would modify its current
retail pricing policy in order to eliminate the distortions that have arisen
in product consumption patterns and redress the weakened resource position of
the sector over the medium term by means of (i) gradual elimination of the
subsidies implicit in the present pricing policy, and (ii) setting retail
prices of petroleum products at such relative levels as to avoid uneconomic
substitution among fuels. This would entail, inter alia, increasing the
retail price of fuel oil to parity with its cif import cost and reducing the
present gap between the retail prices of gasoil and gasoline. To meet the



- 15 -
condition of effectiveness on eliminating PETROGAL's projected loss for the
current year and allowing the company to meet its current ratio obligations
(Loan Agreement, Sections 4.04(c) and 6.01), the Government is expected to
raise the prices and margins on fuel oil and other products in 1981
(para. 67). Further price adjustments will be effected through a petroleum
product pricing plan which is now in the final stages of preparation and is
expected to be legislated in the first half of 1982; in the event that the
adoption of the plan is delayed, the Government will use interim price
adjustments.
Institutional Framework
39.       The Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) has official jurisdiction
over most energy-related matters in Portugal and acts through its Secretary
of State for Energy and Mining. The concerned public sector companies,
PETROGAL and EDP (power company), report to this Ministry. The Directorate
General for Energy (DGE) in MIE, staffed by about one hundred professionals,
is responsible for establishing energy policies, projecting energy require-
ments, recommending energy prices, and establishing energy conservation
measures. The Office for Petroleum Exploration and Production (GPEP) in the
Ministry handles all technical and legal aspects of petroleum exploration and
exploitation in Portugal, including negotiation and administration of conces-
sion agreements with oil companies. Although somewhat thinly staffed with 18
technical and professional personnel, a third of GPEP's staff have had
considerable oil exploration experience abroad and in Portugal. GPEP will
assemble and integrate available data on known heavy oil deposits in
Portugal. It does not have, however, the specialized staff to execute the
screening study which is therefore to be implemented under the project with
the assistance of consultants. The national oil company, PETROGAL, is an
integrated oil company and is the borrower under the proposed loan; its
overall organization and operations are discussed in paras. 56-57.
Bank Lending Strategy and Role in the Sector
40.       The Bank's lending in the energy sector in Portugal to date has
comprised six loans in power supply: two hydropower projects (Loan
Nos. 362-PO (1963) and 452-PO (1966)), three thermal power stations (Loan
Nos. 363-PO (1963), 412-PO (1965), and 453-PO (1966)), and a time slice of
the power sector investment plan (Loan No. 1301-PO (1976)). All of these
projects have been implemented successfully and during the implementation
period of the last project (completion report under preparation), the public
power company (EDP) has developed into a financially sound and efficient
company. The Bank is also assisting in modernizing the hydropower equipment
industry (Loan 1875-PO (1980)). Apart from past lending operations, the Bank
has assisted Portugal in reviewing energy sector investment priorities
(Report No. 2883-PO) (para. 18) and intends to support diversification
efforts, energy conservation, and petroleum exploration. In this connection,
an energy conservation and diversification project is presently under prepa-
ration. In addition, following the successful implementation of the Sixth
Power project and the promising institutional development of EDP, the Bank is
considering further support of its investment plan which gives priority to
hydropower projects.



- 16 -
41.       The proposed exploration project would be the Bank's first lending
operation in the petroleum sector in Portugal. Its primary objective is to
improve Portugal's prospects for discovering petroleum. At present, this
objective is best accomplished by providing the financial and technical
assistance needed by PETROGAL to efficiently explore its licenses in the
onshore Lusitanian Basin. The circumstances are particularly suited to the
Bank's objective of accelerating exploration in oil-importing developing
countries; on the one hand, PETROGAL's blocks are considered among the more
promising in the basin and petroleum is known to exist; on the other hand,
foreign oil companies have not exhibited strong interest so far due to the
probable small size of fields and lack of export potential. Even small
finds, however, would be of economic benefit to Portugal. Should a larger
discovery take place as a result of the project, directly from drilling or
indirectly from the additional geologic information generated, active foreign
company interest is expected to be revived. Portugal's "open door" policy
would facilitate such initiatives. Like all previous Bank operations in
Portugal, strengthening of sector institutions is an important objective.
Measures established under this loan (paras. 67-70) will assist PETROGAL in
improving its financial position and help maintain its good standing in the
external financial markets.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objective
42.       The project is designed to assist Petroleos de Portugal, E.P.
(PETROGAL) in improving its current exploration strategy and strengthening
its overall technical capabilities in petroleum exploration. The combination
of seismic surveys and the proposed three-well drilling program is designed
to provide an important first step towards evaluating the full petroleum
potential of PETROGAL's license areas. The proposed work program will also
identify the need for further exploration effort in PETROGAL's areas and
could have an important impact on future exploration activity in the
Lusitanian Basin, part of which is being explored by foreign companies. The
proposed project would also help evaluate the technical and economic feasi-
bility of developing the known heavy oil deposits in onshore Portugal.
Should this evaluation indicate a potential for development, an extension of
Bank lending to the heavy oil field is likely to be requested. The project
was prepared following four missions to Portugal from May 1980 to February
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, DC, from April 15 to April 17,
1981. The Portuguese delegation was led by Mr. Antonio Labisa, Advisor to
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and included representatives from that
Ministry, the Ministry of Industry and Energy, and PETROGAL.  The Loan and
Project Summary and Annex III contain the main features of the proposed loan
and project. No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Area - Exploration History and Petroleum Potential
43.       PETROGAL's exploration activities under the project will cover six
blocks in the onshore portion of the Lusitanian Basin (see map). To date, 58
exploratory wells have been drilled in these blocks, of which 51 were shallow
tests and 7 deep tests to 2,000 m or more. Shallow heavy oil shows were



- 17 -
encountered in 41 wells and light oil shows in 6. These represent 64 percent
of the exploratory wells drilled onshore to date, and 91 percent of the heavy
oil shows and 55 percent of the light oil shows encountered thus far (for
exploration history, see Annex VI).
44.       It is certain that oil has been generated in the Lusitanian Basin.
Moreover, as evidenced by past activity and the number of shows of oil, the
PETROGAL blocks have been considered the most promising in the onshore
basin. Two particularly promising shows on these blocks have been: (i)
Barreiro (12 km southeast of Lisbon) where a well encountered up to 20 m of
very good light oil saturation in porous Middle Jurassic limestone, and (ii)
Arruda (6 km northwest of Vila Franca de Xeira) where good light oil satura-
tions were encountered in Upper Jurassic sandstones. Neither well has been
conclusively tested, and both predate the energy crisis since which time the
development of even small reserves in the 5-25 million barrel range, in a
country such as Portugal, has become increasingly viable, both economically
and technically (for petroleum geology, see Annex VII). Improving the chance
for success in the search for oil in light of the geological complexities of
the Lusitanian Basin, however, requires an exploration program utilizing
recent advances in technology in order to determine the optimum relationship
between structure and stratigraphy and to permit the selection of the best
drilling sites.
45.       The heavy oil deposits also warrant further evaluation in view of
the continuing increase in international oil prices and the technical
advances in recovering heavy oil. Six of the eight known heavy oil deposits
in Portugal are located on the PETROGAL blocks. The known extent of these
deposits is about 18 km2 and might even be larger. Reserves in place have
yet to be determined but could approach 150 million barrels, with up to 30
million barrels recoverable through thermal stimulation.
Project Description
46.       The proposed project would consist of: (a) reprocessing of old
seismic data acquired in 1954-56 and 1962-63, and undertaking a seismic
survey in two phases, the first phase covering 340 line-km and already
completed, and a second phase covering 500 line-km; (b) drilling of three
exploratory obligation wells to an average depth of about 2,500 to 3,000 m;
(c) strengthening of PETROGAL's exploration capabilities through technical
assistance consisting of a senior explorationist (7 manmonths), a petroleum
geophysicist (18 manmonths), and drilling management services (30 manmonths);
(d) two programs of laboratory services for analyzing source rock data and
reservoir characteristics, the first using existing data and the second
future data from proposed wells; (e) a screening study of existing data
pertaining to heavy oil development; and (f) an overall planning study by
PETROGAL.
47.       The terms of PETROGAL's exploration concessions provide for the
drilling of three wells before relinquishment of 50 percent of the concession
areas by 1982-83. Although several prospects have been identified by



- 18 -
PETROGAL geologists, their further definition and confirmation will be
required before drilling can be warranted, and this will depend upon the
results of the proposed seismic surveys. The seismic surveys will assist
PETROGAL both in delineating quality prospects and judiciously selecting
drilling locations for the three wells under the project, and in making
selective relinquishments of its areas and locating additional prospects
which may be drilled in the future. Provision has been made for 3-D seismic
methodology, if required, in the highly structured portion of PETROGAL's
blocks, in order to better resolve the structural complexities at depth. The
laboratory services, will further assist PETROGAL in evaluating prospects
defined by the seismic surveys through source rock and reservoir analysis
based on existing data, and will enable PETROGAL to better evaluate the
results obtained through analysis of new data gathered from the wells under
the project. The heavy oil screening study will determine, using existing
data, whether commercial exploitation of the deposits might be technically
feasible. If the outcome is encouraging, PETROGAL would consider a
full-scale feasibility study or pilot development project to ascertain the
economic feasibility of development of these deposits. The planning study
will assist PETROGAL in reinforcing its present overall planning and
assessment capabilities through the institution of planning systems, which
are responsive to the breadth of its activities and to the volatility of the
petroleum sector and which would serve as a basis for the review and
assessment of financial and investment policies (para. 70).
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $26.0
million, of which $21.8 million is in foreign exchange. The major items are
the seismic work (about $7.0 million base cost) and wells (about $12.0
million base cost). Cost figures do not include import duties and taxes,
from which the project would be exempt; they include, however, a surface
rental charge of $240,000 for the concession areas. In estimating the total
cost of the wells, it is assumed that only one of the three wells will be
completed as a producer at an estimated completion cost of $0.51 million.
The costs of reprocessing old seismic data and of the first seismic program
(about $1.8 million base cost) reflect expenditures already incurred. The
cost of the second program of seismic services (about $5.2 million base cost)
is based on the existing contract rate for 400 line-km of conventional
seismic work plus a provision at present market rates for 100 line-km of 3-D
seismic. Costs of the technical services (about $0.92 million base cost) of
the senior explorationist, petroleum geophysicist, and drilling management
assistance have been estimated at an average $17,000 per manmonth, including
travel, subsistence, and overheads. The cost of the heavy oil screening
study (about $0.12 million base cost) is based on a projected requirement of
5 manmonths of consultant services, at an average $12,000 per manmonth
(including travel, subsistence, and overheads), in addition to data collec-
tion, processing, and transport costs. The cost of laboratory services
($0.28 million base cost) is based on a projected requirement for analysis of
about 750 samples (at about $250 per sample) and of about 450 feet of core
(at about $100 per foot), plus estimated transport costs. The cost of the



- 19 -
planning study ($0.60 million base cost) is based on an estimated requirement
of about 50 manmonths of local and 12 manmonths of expatriate consultant
services, at an average cost of about $8,000 and $17,000 per manmonth respec-
tively, including travel, subsistence and overhead. The base prices are as
of February 1981. Physical contingencies are about 16 percent of base cost,
and price contingencies for the one-and-a-half-year implementation period are
about 8 percent of base cost increased by physical contingencies (for
detailed cost breakdowns, see Annex IX).
49.       The proposed Bank loan of $20.0 million would finance 78 percent of
the total project costs (net of duties and taxes) and 92 percent of the
foreign exchange costs. Bank financing would cover the foreign exchange cost
of all project components except the reprocessing of seismic data and the
first seismic survey, which are completed, and the first program of labora-
tory services. The remaining 8 percent, or $1.8 million, in foreign exchange
costs (for the above specified items) and all local costs would be financed
by PETROGAL from its own resources. It is recommended that the loan be made
to PETROGAL, with the guarantee of the Republic of Portugal, for a period of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the prevailing Bank interest rate.
PETROGAL would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The rental of a drilling rig and all major purchases of drilling
materials and related equipment will be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Well services (for mud and chemicals, cementing, logging, testing, and
perforation), as well as seismic services, will be procured through limited
international tenders because of the limited availability of qualified
suppliers. Small purchases or rentals of up to $100,000 for equipment,
parts, materials, and consumables, may be procured on the basis of local
procedures (such as local competitive bidding and limited tendering),
acceptable to the Bank, provided that their aggregate does not exceed $1.0
million.
51.       Disbursement on all Bank-financed items would be made against 100
percent of the foreign exchange expenditures, with the exception of drilling
equipment and materials with respect to which disbursement would be made
against 100 percent of ex-factory cost or 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, and the planning study with respect to whicn disbursement would
be made against 33 percent of total cost (the estimated foreign exchange
cost). Retroactive financing estimated at $1.5 million is recommended to
cover PETROGAL's expenditures incurred after January 1, 1981, for technical
assistance and the second seismic survey, which are essential for the early
start-up of the project. Disbursement against expenditures on the drilling
rig (except $500,000 in down payments) and other services directly related to
the three exploratory wells will be made only after Bank approval to proceed
with the drilling. This will be based on a pre-location report for the
particular well, to be submitted by PETROGAL and received in the Bank reason-
ably in advance of the proposed start of drilling (Loan Agreement, Sched-
ule 1, para. 4(c)); an understanding has been reached with PETROGAL on the



- 20 -
specific content of these reports, broadly including proposed well loca-
tion, depth, and drilling and testing program. The closing date of the loan
is June 30, 1983.
Project Implementation
52.       PETROGAL's Exploration and Production Department will implement the
proposed exploration project. The 12 professionals now working in Lisbon
consist of one director, two administrators, five geologists, two engineers,
one geophysicist, and one paleontologist. All but two of them have 7-20
years of relevant petroleum exploration experience. Both the quality and
experience of the personnel are good, but the department is thinly staffed
and requires the assistance of the additional geophysicist and drilling
management consultants provided under the proposed loan.  This is the first
exploration program on which PETROGAL's exploration staff will be working as
a group; the services of the senior explorationist, to be provided under the
project, will help strengthen its overall capability.
53.       The additional geophysicist would assist in the supervision of the
seismic crew, selection of seismic processing techniques, interpretation of
seismic sections, and preparation of seismic maps and prospect files. The
drilling management team would assist PETROGAL's engineers in the design and
planning of the drilling programs, preparation of tenders and evaluation of
bids for all drilling services, materials and supplies, and supervision of
all drilling, casing, testing and completion activities. The senior explora-
tionist would assist the department in its geological studies, integration of
seismic and other geophysical data, prospect evaluation and selection of
drilling locations, and design of overall exploration strategy.
54.       PETROGAL will implement the heavy oil screening study and the pro-
gram of laboratory services assisted by consulting firms specialized in these
fields. With respect to heavy oil, most of the relevant data is available in
the Office for Petroleum Exploration and Production (GPEP) files. As system-
atic collation of the available data would be advantageous before bringing in
the consultants, GPEP would assemble and collate all necessary information by
end-October 1981 and turn it over to PETROGAL in order that the screening
study may commence immediately thereafter (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.03(a)). The planning study, to be completed by June 30, 1982, will be
implemented by PETROGAL's Planning Department with the assistance of finan-
cial management consultants satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.02 and 4.06).
Project Schedule
55.       The logistic schedule for the project is tight but still realis-
tic. PETROGAL must report the results of its exploration activity and make
an application for renewal by April 26, 1982, 90 days before expiration of
the primary term on blocks 48-49-50. The primary term on its second conces-
sion, blocks 45-46-47, expires on January 10, 1983. The proposed project
schedule therefore provides for spudding the first well by December 1981,



- 21 -
the second by March 1982, and the third by June 1982, in order for the two
wells on blocks 48-49-50 to be completed by end May 1982 and the well on
blocks 45-46-47 by end August 1982. Technical assistance has been recruited
and the first seismic survey completed; having agreed on the program and
schedule for the initial phase of the second seismic survey, the survey is
underway and PETROGAL is expected to meet the drilling schedule (for details
of the implementation schedule, see Annex X). Well completion reports will be
sent to the Bank within 60 days after each well is completed. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
The Borrower
56.       Petroleos de Portugal, E.P. (PETROGAL) was established as a public
oil company by Decree Law 217-A/76 of March 26, 1976. It comprises the merger
of four previously nationalized Portuguese companies--SACOR, SONAP, PETROSUL,
and CIDLA. PETROGAL is an integrated oil company involved in petroleum explo-
ration and development, refining, importing, distributing and marketing, and
in petrochemicals. Its principal activity is refinery operations. PETROGAL
owns and operates Portugal's three refineries (Sines, Porto, and Lisbon) which
are, on average, now operating at less than 50 percent of their 19.5 million
ton refining capacity. The company is allocated some 70-80 percent of the
regulated market (75 percent of total domestic market), and holds
a somewhat smaller share of the free market 1/; foreign companies hold the
rest of both markets.  The onshore exploration in Portugal under the two
concession agreements signed in 1978 and 1979, and to be financed in part
under the proposed project, represents PETROGAL's first undertaking in
exploration, although SACOR had previously been involved in prospecting for
oil.
57.       PETROGAL is managed by a Board of Directors composed of five to
seven members appointed for a period of three years by the Cabinet of
Ministers upon the recommendation of the Minister of Industry and Energy. It
is further supervised by a Fiscal Committee of three members whose duties
include auditing and overseeing the financial and related aspects of the
company's activities as reported by the Board. Divided into 16 departments,
the company has over 7,200 employees, of which some 20 percent are profes-
sionals. Overall, PETROGAL is a reasonably well-managed company.
58.       Accounts and Audits.  Like all public sector companies, PETROGAL
prepares its accounts according to the guidelines of the Official Account
plan introduced by the Government in 1978. It has a competent internal audit
unit which carries out its activities under the direction of the Fiscal
Committee. Its accounts are also reviewed and certified annually by an inde-
pendent firm of public auditors who are satisfactory to the Bank. PETROGAL
will keep separate accounts for the proposed project and submit copies to the
Bank regularly.
1/ That portion of the market in which distributors' shares are not allo-
cated by the Government, including mainly liquified petroleum gas,
aviation fuel, marine bunker, naphtha, and other non-energy products.



- 22 -
PETROGAL - Financial Position and Prospects
59.       Background.  In terms both of the size of its assets and its gross
revenue and of its role as main energy supplier in the country, PETROGAL is
one of the principal companies in the Portuguese economy. As the national
oil company since 1976, its activities include the import into Portugal of
almost all requirements of crude and the control of all refining capacity as
well as the greater part of petroleum distribution. PETROGAL presently
derives the main share of its income from sales of petroleum products in the
internal market and, to a lesser degree, from sales of bunker and aviation
fuels at Portuguese ports.
60.       While PETROGAL has returned in each of the past years a net profit
on overall operations, its financial performance and position have been less
than satisfactory. This has been due to problems primarily of a macro-
economic origin, that cannot be remedied either immediately or through
measures specific to the petroleum sector (para. 6). In addition, these
problems are outside the domain of exploration which forms a very small part
of PETROGAL's activities. Despite this, the broad lines of PETROGAL's
financial performance have been appraised in order to identify the major and
primarily external issues affecting such performance and to propose initial
measures to improve the situation. To this end, a plan of action has been
established with the Government and PETROGAL on (i) remedial measures,
including action on pricing and on arrears, to provide a minimum base for
improvement in PETROGAL's medium-term finances (paras. 67-68) and (ii) an
indepth study to define the optimum strategy for PETROGAL's longer-term
financial strength (paras. 47 and 70).
61.       PETROGAL's financial performance continues to be restrained essen-
tially because of a shortage of working capital and, particularly, a lack of
liquidity. This situation arose because: (i) returns from operations have
been insufficient due to the fact that prices do not fully cover PETROGAL's
financial charges on short-term borrowings for crude imports; (ii) key public
consumers have failed to pay regularly for their purchases; and (iii) the
capital structure of the company has been inadequate.
62.       Due to a shortage of foreign exchange, the Central Bank since 1977
has directed that major imports of goods into Portugal be effected through
extended (6 months) external credit arrangements. In line with this
directive, PETROGAL finances all purchases of crude through such short-term
loans and, as a result of the interest cost on this borrowing, bears substan-
tial additional expense on imports. At the same time, whereas the present
system of setting ex-refinery prices and related adjustments ensures that
PETROGAL earns an adequate return on long-term capital invested in refinery
operations, the system does not provide for any margin 1/ earmarked to cover
the net additional interest charges incurred on the short-term borrowing for
crude.
1/ With the exception of adjustments which ensure that the company only
bears the interest charges equivalent to those on comparable internal
loans, presently at 18.75 percent.



- 23 -
63.       PETROGAL's liquidity has been further exacerbated by the inability
of certain key public customers to pay promptly and regularly for their
purchases. In order to cover shortfalls of funds due to customer arrears,
PETROGAL has been led to further short-term borrowing at substantial finan-
cial cost, and despite a recent increase in the interest rate that it may
charge on receivables (from 6 percent to 15 percent in 1980), a large
differential remains between the present rate and PETROGAL's current cost on
borrowed funds (between 18.25 percent and 20 percent). By end-1980, overdue
customer bills amounted to nearly $170 million, representing over 4 months of
sales to delinquent customers mostly in the public sector; of this amount
about 80 percent was accounted for by four companies in the transportation
sector: the Portuguese airline, TAP (58 percent), two maritime companies
Companhia Portuguesa de Transportes Maritimos (CPTM) (13 percent) and
Companhia Nacional de Navegacao (CNN) (7 percent), and the railroad company
CP (2 percent). Large accumulations of inter-company debts have been a
general problem within the Portuguese economy. The source of this problem
resides in the financial difficulties which the public sector companies are
experiencing, in several cases so severe as to have led the Government to
proceed with plans to restructure those most affected through financial
rehabilitation contracts. A contract of this nature between the Government,
the banking system, and TAP was concluded in 1980 and will be revised in the
near future; similar contracts for CPTM and CNN are under preparation and are
expected to be completed by end-1981, and for CP by end-1982. These
contracts are expected to include provisions for the liquidation of arrears
to PETROGAL (para. 68).
64.       Past Financial Performance.  As a result of these two problems,
PETROGAL's earnings from its refining and marketing operations have been
seriously eroded by the high financial charges for short-term borrowings.
Although gross revenues increased from $600 million in 1977 to $2.2 billion
in 1980, net profit after tax only increased from $12 million to $44 million,
due mainly to the interest on short-term borrowing which grew from $8 million
in 1977 to $166 million in 1980. The lack of working capital was reflected
in an unsatisfactory current ratio which between 1977 and 1980 ranged between
0.88 and 0.98. Total debt/equity (i.e. including short-term debt) remained
at about 87/13 over the same period. PETROGAL's equity and liabilities, as
of December 31, 1980, were as follows:
$ Million      %
Equity                    312       13
Long-Term Debt            566       24
Current Liabilities   1,500         63
Total               2,378       100



- 24 -
The salient feature of the above figures is the exceedingly large amount of
current liabilities which mainly consists of short-term debt. This debt has
serious implications not only as previously mentioned for PETROGAL's
financial performance, but also for its capital structure since a significant
proportion of the debt is covering a strategic reserve of crude stocks which
might appropriately be financed by equity. This is one of the issues which
will be carefully reviewed in the course of the proposed planning study
(para. 47).
65.       The following table sets out the principal features of PETROGAL's
finances over the period 1977-1980. Further details are given in Annex VIII.
-------In Millions of $-------
1977    1978    1979    1980
Gross Revenues from Sales             620      730   1,280   2,154
Gross Margins from Sales               226     256      614     568
Operating Expenses                    232      236      444     308
Interest on Short-Term Debt             8       62       90     166
Interest on Long-Term Debt             22       16       76      74
Net Profit After Tax                    12       6       26      44
Rate of Return on Total Assets 1/    5%         6%      11%     13%
Current Ratio--Times                 0.91    0.88    0.98    0.98
Total Debt/Equity Ratio             89/11   86/14   87/13    87/13
Debt Service Coverage--Times         n.a.    1.1       1.5      1.4
1/ Fixed assets last revalued in 1978.
66.       In the absence of immediate remedial action, the adverse impact of
the crude financing and customer arrears problems would be expected to become
even more acute in the future. In fact, budget projections for 1981 indicate
that refining and marketing income would be insufficient to cover expected
financial charges, and a loss of nearly $20 million would be incurred on
overall operations. For the 1982-84 period, PETROGAL's profitability would
be expected to remain at best marginal; since the debt service coverage would
be inadequate, the company would have no net internal cash generation to
support its investment plan and even if relieved from present profit distri-
bution requirements and assisted with Government equity infusions at past
levels, PETROGAL would be expected to continue to have a worsening shortage
of working capital.
67.       Remedial Measures.  In order to redress this worsening trend, the
Government is expected to increase the ex-refinery price of fuel oil and
other products in 1981, and it has provided assurances that it would continue
to adjust ex-refinery prices of products through a medium-term plan on



- 25 -
pricing which is currently under preparation or through interim price
adjustments if the adoption of the plan is delayed. These increases would
bring ex-refinery prices to levels which would cover PETROGAL's full cost on
its imports (including net financial cost) and refining of crude, or the cif
import price, whichever is higher. Specifically, the increases in
ex-refinery prices would be sufficient at the minimum to ensure that (i) in
1981, PETROGAL does not incur a net loss on overall operations and achieves
by the end of the year a current ratio of not less than 0.92; and (ii) in
following years, PETROGAL can generate net funds from internal and other
sources sufficient to cover, at the minimum, 15 percent of capital and other
investment requirements in 1982, 20 percent in 1983 and 35 percent in 1984
and thereafter, as well as the full amount of annual increases in working
capital required to ensure a current ratio of at least 0.95 by end-1982,
progressively increasing to at least unity by end-1984. PETROGAL, on its
part, would take the necessary measures within its power to achieve these
financial objectives (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). To supplement these
measures, the Government has undertaken to provide equity contributions to
cover any shortfalls of funds needed to meet the above targets resulting from
lags in ex-refinery price adjustments (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
68.       The Government and PETROGAL have also provided assurances on a set
of measures to eliminate PETROGAL's customer arrears. The Government would
assist PETROGAL in eliminating customer arrears and eliciting current
payments on its bills through (i) including schedules for repayment in
rehabilitation contracts under preparation or to be revised (para. 63); and
(ii) using, among other avenues, the means made available to it through the
rehabilitation contracts to ensure adherence to these schedules and regular
payment of current bills (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.03(b). In addition,
while in recent months PETROGAL has succeeded in curbing the growth of
customer arrears, in order to bring about further progress, PETROGAL would
maintain and modify, whenever necessary, its presently instituted terms for
payment in such a way as to ensure that (i) all delinquent companies are
maintained on special (harder than the 30 days commercial) terms until their
arrears are rescheduled and 50 percent paid; and (ii) all companies which
maintain after July 1, 1981, irregular payment records (and after January 1,
1982, irregular arrears repayment records) be asked to prepay their bills
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.09(a). PETROGAL would consolidate in its accounts
by December 31, 1981, and record as medium-term assets all receivables not
scheduled for payment within the course of the following year (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.09(b)).
69.       Future Prospects.  The above measures would relieve PETROGAL of two
major obstacles to its attainment of a sound financial position over a
reasonable period of time and would assist the company in achieving gradual
improvements in financial performance. In this respect, PETROGAL has agreed
to maintain a debt service coverage of at least 1.2 in 1982 and 1983 and 1.4
thereafter, a debt/equity ratio of not greater than 65/35, and to achieve a
current ratio of at least 0.95 by end-1982, 0.98 by end-1983, and at least
1.0 by end-1984 and thereafter (Loan Agreement, Sections 4.04 and 4.05). The



- 26 -
remedial action on pricing and on customer arrears are expected to result in
significant improvements-in PETROGAL's financial position in 1982 through
1984, exceeding the covenanted financial objectives. On this basis, it is
expected that returns on total assets in these years could range from 16
percent to 20 percent (see Annex VIII). Further improvements would be
expected to take place in the ensuing period. For the 1981-84 period,
PETROGAL projects a total investment of about $418 million, of which
approximately $52 million (12 percent) is for exploration and production.
With the remedial measures to be taken by the Government and PETROGAL,
financing for the 1981-84 investments is expected to be as follows;
US$ Million   %
PETROGAL (internal)   130          31 1/
Long-Term Loans        278         67
Government              10          2 2/
418       100
1/ Assuming 10 percent investment coverage for 1981 and an average of 44
percent for the 1982-1984 period.
2/ Assuming the Government waives its right to dividends; a higher
proportion of equity contribution may otherwise be required.
70.       Given PETROGAL's role in the energy sector and its position within
the Portuguese economy, the criteria of financial performance as detailed in
para. 69 above should be considered as minimal targets.  PETROGAL intends to
strengthen its capabilities in planning and in the assessment of financial
and investment policies. Through the implementation of a planning system and
help in tne definition of appropriate future financial and investment strate-
gies, the overall planning study component of the proposed loan (para. 47)
will assist it in this task. The results of the study will be reviewed by
PETROGAL, the Government, and the Bank with a view to determining the
measures required to further strengthen the financial position of PETROGAL
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
Environmental Impact
71.       Very little, and no irreparable, damage to the environment should
occur. Seismic surveys will use vibrators for an energy source, rather than
explosives, causing little or no damage to nearby structures. Serious
drilling problems such as blowouts should not occur as long as good oil field
practice is followed, since no well drilled in the area to date has en-
countered abnormal subsurface pressure. Appropriate industry practices will
also be followed regarding the disposal of fluids recovered in tests, bore-
hole cuttings, and other waste materials normal to drilling operations.



- 27 -
Nevertheless, PETROGAL has agreed to make adequate safety provisions, includ-
ing the immediate allocation of any funds required to secure specialized
international services in the event of a blowout, fire, or spill (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05).
Project Benefit and Risk
72.       Portugal is heavily dependent on imported oil for its energy
needs. The oil bill, about 45 percent of export earnings in 1980, has
recently been growing at about $1 billion per year. While the country is
making serious efforts for conservation and diversification, these structural
changes take time and cannot sufficiently alleviate oil expenditures in the
short run. Discovery of even modest oil reserves would have an immediate
impact on the economy allowing some foreign exchange resources, now committed
to oil imports, to be directed to pressing development needs. The proposed
project represents an important step in that direction: a small field, the
most likely size of a discovery resulting from the proposed exploratory
effort, could give rise to a production of 6,000-8,000 barrels per day,
representing about 4 percent of current annual imports; net savings to the
economy could be more than $200 million, in current prices, over the life of
the field.
73.       The anticipated small size of Portugal's possible onshore oil
reserves have not attracted large scale foreign prospecting. As the only
Portuguese company involved in exploration, PETROGAL has a vital role in
accelerating renewed efforts in exploration. Should its exploratory activity
lead, through the provision of further geologic information or through an
actual oil find, to a discovery of an oil field of a larger than anticipated
size, this would have the added benefit of attracting foreign interest for
further onshore exploration.
74.       The proposed project would improve PETROGAL's current exploration
strategy and its prospects for discovering petroleum. Without Bank financial
and technical assistance, PETROGAL would likely be constrained to conducting
an exploration program principally directed toward meeting seismic and
drilling obligations at minimum cost. During the preparation of this pro-
ject, the Bank has already had an important influence on PETROGAL's explora-
tion program by proposing the Government grant the company a one-year post-
ponement of its initial drilling obligations to enable it to acquire
sufficient data to locate better quality drillable prospects. Careful
monitoring of the proposed seismic surveys will help achieve this objective.
The project would further assist PETROGAL and the government departments in
evaluating the country's known heavy oil deposits. The appraisal of the
project has additionally made possible the identification of issues having a
bearing on energy sector policies, including petroleum product pricing and
the financial position of PETROGAL. As regards the latter, arrangements
under this loan would (i) help strengthen PETROGAL's financial position and
protect its future viability, and (ii) serve to initiate an effective dia-
logue with the Government on energy policies and related action.



- 28 -
75.       The project still involves considerable risk, and may not result in
the discovery of significant oil accumulations. To reduce this risk, dril-
ling locations will be selected with care, based on a substantial body of
geologic data including numerous oil shows.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Petroleos de
Portugal, E.P. (PETROGAL), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Portugal and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As a special condition of effectiveness, the Bank will notify
PETROGAL that it has concluded, on the basis of information supplied by the
company and on the basis of prices and margins set by the Government for
petroleum products, that PETROGAL is expected not to incur a net loss and to
achieve a current ratio of 0.92 for 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
PETROGAL's submitting pre-location reports to the Bank for approval for each
well sufficiently in advance of the start-up of drilling is a condition of
disbursement against expenditure on drilling and other well services (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 29 -
aNrntA I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMIsGES
LAND AREA (THOLUSAND SO.                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIATE)
TOTAL              92.1
AGRTCULTURAL       41.1                                 MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb                 EUROPE                  COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   350.0       930.0    1990.0                    2381.1                   8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      382.0        754.0    1030.0                   1641.4                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       9.0          9.0       9.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2      29.6                      53.9                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        12.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. YM.                        98.0         98.0     106.0                     77.2                    142.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTIJRAL LAND    218.0        218.0     238.0                    129.5                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2         28.5      27.2                     30.6                     23.5
15-64 YRS.                          62.8        61.8       62.7                     61.1                     65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7      10.1                      6.2                     11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PFRCENT)
TOTAL                               0.7/c        O.O/c     1.0                      1.6                      0.7
IIRBAN                              1.4          1.5       2.5                      3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0        20.0       18.0                     22.8                     13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       8.0          9.0       10.0                      8.9                      9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6          1.5        1.2                      1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        109.0      75.0                    113.1                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PFRCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   116.0        128.0     126.0                    125.3                    131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           78.0         89.0      83.0                     91.0                     98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.0         38.0      38.0                     39.6                     62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        7.0         4.0        2.2                      4.3                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.0          67.0      69.0                     67.8                     73.5
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            77.5         58.0      39.0                     55.9                     13.2
ACCESS TO SAFF WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      65.0
IIRBAN                                ..          ..       0o.
RURAL                                 ..          ..      56.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION P'ER PHYSICIAN          1200.0/d    1100.0      707.0                   1030.1                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1430.0/d    1000.0      502.0                    929.4                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             183.0        164.0     190.0                    289.7                    121.2
ITRBAN                               ..           ..
RURAI.                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         10.0      12.0                     17.0                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE ORE rOF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                               3.9          3. 7
URBAN                               4.0           ..
RURAL                                 .9          ..9
AVERAGE NIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1 .8
ITRBAN                              1.0           ..
RURAI                               1.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
oF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2
URBAN                              88.5           ..
RURAI,                             27.4           ..



- 30-                                        lu4xL I
Page 2 of 5
TAELE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER4GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE ,NCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  Ab    1970 /A ESTIMATE Ab             EUROPE                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS /h
PRIHARY:    TOTAL                   ..        98.0     130.0                   105.9                   100.1
MALE                   ..        99.0     134.0                   109.3                   102.2
FEMALE                 ..        96.0     127.0                   103.0                   102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   ..        57.0      59.0                    64.0                    87.1
MALE                   ..        63.0      59.0                    71.1                    84.4
FEMALE                 ..        51.0      59.0                   56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 46.0         32.0      40.0                    28.8                    19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0        34.0      27.0                    29.4                    21.3
SECONDARY                         19.0        17.0      14.0                    26.1                    16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       62.0        71.0       70.0                     ..                    98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.0        54.0     108.7                    84.6                   339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        96.0       159.0     173.0                   192.2                   932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        45.0      82.0                   118.5                   354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUJLATION                63.0        84.0      70.0                    93.0                   327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0         3.0        4.1                    5.7                     3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3478.5      3550.0    3763.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.9        24.8      26.0                    30.4                    36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             44.1        33.3      27.0                    37.0                     7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                29.0        33.2      37.0                    29.3                    38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               38.5        39.3      44.6                    40.9                    44.6
MALE                                66.0        62.3       56.4                   55.9                    58.1
FEMALE                              13.2         18.5      32.3                   26.2                    31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.0        1.0                    1.0                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        56.1/s.f  56.3/                     ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         6.2/s.f   7.3/es.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        20.6/e.f  2 a.4/es.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US $ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    480.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    480.0                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1962; /e Highest
251 and lowest 251 and 501 of households; /f 1968; I& 1973-74.
/h  Enrollmont ratios r ot comrparable in tine due to changes ir. age
groups ir. primary znd secondary education.
October 1980



-31 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL iNOlCAlORS
Notes-  Althc-gh the dataar  drama frot         ore    eeal   ogdtets   obfttv   sad  eliale,iaoaldals  be sated thme they may net heI lna-
thme,scl    d-eclibe order  of   mgnttsds., tadi-tat  treds, sadcar -tr                  -icrtt   major differeace   beten-    aeei
Ste refarean   groupsYoar (1)fthrcm   oar    100   ftamh(n omr   m   2)  .o..arry groap alth somehat hrieraer-                                      Iao    than the oose..rI  groat
of thaasbjecoosoty  (amcpr fo   CaItal SeaFlo  OiEoras    roPabere. 'Middle locat  Notch Afr Io ad Middl:E ,ia" I. those. hbn-oc  ofsree
-         leac  half . of theiootri toagrs  has datahtar eh at:&.. pd,                                         Rhiao.   lc   herrrg    of..o.atrie ma  tO  iofr  dapeed  ond the .I msihi.t.o
dmtaavdimnotoatfcrmoaonlormsmthteaernaadimrelanlngsreraea  of oomladfcenrioah.th_o.   Tre_eereagesara-adlysdefolIah.epeataglhtvaIf
If..rIvdlcarcrath anls    hamteamredeeer    ram
fatl-otaaalacaracspraio    ladaeaadolad  eaem.                                       lna,cqolf.d           esfdaaiaholy  -totnercanlevi.g  h 
19)0. sad 1978 data.                                                                  hahilitathianteeeeim..Hasp tts7sdarm  emtahltmt1ma9-d-p---ametfip  mt...ed
E-I t                                                                                        'C     'b. 1         __'y             "'~~y sles  aaphmnia   Ithiatmer    eatta   olaeal  netta
-rcny    t  ior-dofca bq aim   pard  tAtll; 090,1976 5, mpmd) 1919t0m,   mtdwbl,itP,blem  .1  ho    te    e-ajedraaia    a    rad
data,                                                                                            liitdd 1e9t7edca8frtdtem-Fr  t                            It SIna  pur'pameesehe  hapi
MPERCYCOINS1J1PTITaPEL    C TOISTAOES ..        -pihI                                              hbceit-a loca  or. roalbrPtimmad meicl  adeseriy ceatert.
data,                                                                         fear hospitals d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7iviely  tie   ohefffes
llrhaa Fonslatioc Snarceat6 of total) - ratioidof.orbfatinoi tots--popolans-r;
ameccortl-      c  100.197,  od197Fdts.Ovrse    paryf anshil Ierimbycrhomehldd- atl.  fos, iadre tal
Pooato  PoatinaCOfmbodontme   ta  rs-ah                                                                     tdvtulthe            tr   legqater
metrs  cr  ertlit  rote. of mo hove thre  levels, aso-oa   ecinhmaacpied l  darim.db   h
fetltyairdf,oic  e  lvlan   attanopistg   efrasa-crm   si-rrnlvlmaeoo  delmab-naad                                                                       oba.ad  ua 
Eah  osnr   i  teoasipa   oe  f  hem   ir  cmbnalnaofmemmit                 cavntreldwllagnibeerriit   t  ivmgqulter  a  peresg
iooat.  Thi  is athetd only afterfetlity   ravd   deoilive -tOl                  -dloted inrlra  taiA b..dt                   9t-    .-          tb -lddi
ifo loon.            IIl                                fIb        -1                     h.h         Ironre  ...t omiverJmedo1aianeaolu          aetedolprcv
horms  oayooltr   srctd-Tapa     e   ttlnt oPltr                                               irem    ateaebb    raoeteafns   nodae
rie  a   baeta 'ifd'I     -oodarytihol -totl, mle  md fmal -dCmpsed a  shve;  enodar
total stain.                                                                        acoa~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -F..ll  of 12 tod   at  o    a;certodarecussar        aal
ovIt.--li    i,A~..I Eaaiml.,erroltyowp ...arie.. of aomdrl -ocfa llatt_lr
broom; 1900, 1970. and 1970 data.                                         Pnpol-teecherratSr - primary, cad sanomdery-fatal snvdIeI-etae-nfalled  is1d-lli.~ I..p'Itit
yaso papsisslort  (or 1950-00. 190-71, aad 1977-t.horeprdv   lavi.E I                                             L   i"            i  y
Erd  lrh   OotcI    i (car .boeod     d-hOaa  live  dorh paUCATarIoOed-ea
poo   --E-;192  1970  ma  1978l.. da.                                                EoIIcfO
Erode leath lane (oro thoomaodl - Anmsal Otaths par ttoomaad of nid-yecr  paemenuer Ears leer thoomavd roaslatiomi - Faacavger otet toepriae-ty   h-   met-or
tltyrtaa;   doa ly-ie-etavrgasda  f-iv1900.  191.an 1977.I                                  yroarast bto generalI pdbiffe. totIa.fposaff calds   n
famly  lsolv-dceonor. grual nbotadm(- Cncl ombe  i  acsptru    ceaed  ecives  i  connitsan  inpees  Oanregtssmim  a  rdiaae
FOCI  .I041 OCht_TfOtin tonaiem  sad in pec   hetrgitala                                                                                           fTVtnfmeief
Iscao  PodOodcto  re   aia(10-li9   - lade  of pe  taita aa.oa                                   mi     Y of "dil  getal  etrermeYape-    dfiedampeioioi  ab
oslvo    veae  rdotrpiesihe;10-i   1970, and  970 data,                             and me-hilehi stirs..
P  orrrisoadi  tedorceooa  sadriyi   itioln                                   eur-             Detitm    ooria    aacedv  not-1  Yoaarale  1900,. 19111 mm
..vu   ..a.clvne   l 19 060,sa9d070 phy197log78e                                                          tidufo  vrtl  on   170daa
vcuhod    1a96,0tt-70, 190,ad 19707  daadueta   c  eoer5ao.ttlIaorfrc;190f11  adl9tdaa
Pa(siam P-,c of... vroel   -sayy  daySl L -   Ponlbcier   fpe    5i                  aoIehoeco             A - P- .a.. forr   dvs       1to . cavatrociosI oatrn
ve-1ti; 196p       197of fodprdoy   Netso8 l  of  oo  is hdrfv d' as ahad. O-                 an  PletI-olny, sfer1. a        dolta  ampeeoans.ge o  som   laortoe;190
C-dloahma-nf      2 for all     )  cocrc    uAbiuthd hy  It --d proid   foIitimd17sd190daa
PiloP vc  oftEi gam1 of6ota  pooteo  pa  dyav   0  oomoNSialai                               aTIirtON  tt   rret      oa    ae   a   eaerri sito
pos  ooel,ofoic   0  rmasoodheolalcito.    hvenod                 ctvtyrn : r  coptdmPoal.                    s      a   eal   ao    ooa
G  tI oa protein a  sAVerg   foIhIoh rpvdh  toIotnTod                                          16    97,ad17    aa              hs  are       p...ILls   C. pafticpatif  rae -alet
irons dato dented  froa iota tables;  1901.~~~~~~~~~~'I 197  m 960 177  da.     R,EOtt lITo-    yo
OrdIvo                                                                        perrenesge of Faivacenocoer (both Or cash mod  77f-ad(-leteiocd  ty ro-helt
LoaOvetncs tri(oaa   -Oarg   oma  o   arto   itrestn                    5prda,rihm   20 .rct.  pors  2   eco.mdpors'l  ecn
IUd  iI d                                                                           -Slli~~~~"pp" Ih....d If of  oseetolds
of .- cR0 per                IB rhoobmoh-lice1births.                                        famImated Abs1iahd IFovrt. Inrom  Leve (nt) ocr cac -t l. -  rIaIadara
to  aleCaar feosa   o pooltlol    toa,Itao an  rTal-                                bsout !,paverty t.1hOcm.lve p. .in         T the -ta -m leve   belgoadicaminma
tWDANDNeRIofTIoNl  LttSIra,  v   oa)vtoraoal  acs   osf                                          ovriio....eqat   dEprt c               ,b I e  -em Iadl vo-fodrlireet-R   o
oat-arfvch  Pasttae  foce prtre   hrtp          n   vetv   vdsntr   me9ol  r                  ftimne   Iea    Io Yoverr  Onrha Level it (0          f ca  tsrtai -urdmi maVrf    ml
Iocn           ino   hIrrneto    aoalom     vacohvreaolcRrlriviepvryint  lvliIn-hr    f  vrg    e   apn
fo  .....aio     _0 sfemdpoI-"""caIdvnvrtla    00mtr   Ifoaoe -               a Nhe             provl   tcmao          rosty    prhamleneim  derivedfh otmher drs
-cc -set       Y_oci  Iioal Icr    iooldnu_ni ctaldosbad  mud
roors  - tmbar  f pecla  (otal  orba, ma  roral  sered   yemrac
poat   a   nlda ihe tlleotlo  so,d, . doafe, sieb..I,  i  -titoIAtaesMetp-fronvitr sapei-s                                                          ..  te -roe tth. eeparnmef
ctrrrvdsImiaf vtlaio                                                                                                     October  novd bil



- 32 -
AINNA 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars)
Share of GDP at
Actual               Annual Growth Rate (1)                                Market Prices (Current Price.)
1979         1974    1975    1976    1977    1978   1979            1960   1970   1975   1978   1979   1980
($l1Esc. 49.8)                                                                                              (Proiected)
NA1IUNAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                  19,744         0.7    -3.7      9.0      5.6      3.2    3.7        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                 2,341        -1.8    -2.7      1.5   -10.0      4.0    5.0          22.7   16.1   14.1   11.6   11.9   11.4
Industry                                    6,853         4.0    -9.3      4.3    10.4      3.3    3.7          34.5   37.3   39.9   33.4   34.7   36.0
Services                                    9,034         0.8      1.6    15.8      6.6      2.5    2.3         35.4   36.2   37.9   46.6   45.7   44.5
Consumption b/                             17,426        10.3      1.2     3.1      3.3      1.1    0.9         87.8   83.3   96.1   88.7   88.3   86.8
Gross Investment                            4.173        -6.1   -45.7    30.5    28.8    -4.7   -4.7            18.5   23.5   16.3   23.1   21.1   21.7
Exports ot GNFS                             5.165       -15.7   -13.2      4.8      6.8    14.6   27.4          16.6   23.4   19.6   19.9   26.2   27.4
Imports of GNFS                             7,020         4.8    26.7    17.5    13.1    -1.8    5.8            22.9   30.7   32.2   31.8   35.6   35.9
Gross National Savings                      4,303       -35.4   -39.2    13.7    28.4    16.9   32.4            12.2   16.7    9.3   18.9   21.8   22.0
Pr ices
Kate of Inilation                                      27.4    20.4    18.3    27.3    22.1   24.2
Exchange Kate c/                                       25.4    23.6    30.2    38.2    43.9   49.8
MERChAhDlbE ThADE                                            Annual Data at Current Prices f/                           As Percent of Total f/
Imports                                                                                                         1973   1975   1977   1978   1979
Capital Goods                                         701     565      607   1,211   1,375  1,545             20.5   14.5   24.4   26.2   24.0
Intermediate Goods                                 2,635   2,185   2,431   2,442   2,498  2,998               58.4   56.1   49.2   47.5   46.6
Fuel and Related Materials                            575     621      696      715     808  1,249             6.0   16.0   14.4   15.4   19.4
Consumption Goods                                     677     522      595     596      567    644            15.1   13.4   12.0   10.8   10.0
Total nerchandise Imports (c.i.f)                     4,648   3.893   4,329   4.964   5,248  6.436             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Exports
Agricultural Products                                 363     324      307      330     371    489            18.8   16.8   16.5   15.6   13.6
Wood and Cork Products                                360     306      345      359     371    570            14.8   15.8   17.9   15.6   15.9
Textiles, Clothing and Footwear                      672      578      524      594     774  1,193            30.4   29.8   29.6   32.5   33.2
Machinery and Transport Equipment                     285     254      226      297     321    426            13.2   13.1   14.8   13.5   11.9
Other                                                 558     474      388     421      542    916            22.8   24.5   21.2   22.8   25.4
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                    2,238   1,936   1,790   2,001   2.379  3,594             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MEK1bANlD0ISE TEADE INDICEb                                             1975-100
Enport Price Index                                     99     100      106      142     173    224
import Price Index                                    91      100      112      144     178    236
Terms of Trade Index                                  109     100       95       98      98      95
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                       As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIU  FINANCE                                                                                                1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Current Receipts                                       77.8    93.2   127.1   173.6   212.2  264.3 d/         23.0   24.8   27.2   27.9   27.2   26.9
Current Expenditures                                   76.5   102.6   153.3   182.1   238.5  302.2            22.6   27.3   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7
Current burplus/Dsfigit (-) of the State                1.3    -9.4   -26.2    -6,5   -26.3  -37.9             0.4   -2.5   -5.6   -1.3   -3.4   -3.9
cGpital Expenditures (Nt8)                              7.1    12.4    19.3    34.5    39.1   42.7             3.4    4.4    5.0    6.4    5.0    4.3
Nnt financing kaquiremnts                               5.S    21.9    45.5    43.0    65.4   80.6             1.7    5.8    9.7    8.0    8.4    8.2
limamimg  bads                                          9.3    17.4    48.9    44.7    75.5   97.1             2.4    4.*   10.4    7.2    9.7    9.9
UDebt Amrtiatie                                        -1.5     4.4    -3.4    -1.7   -10.4  -16.5             0.7    1.2    0.7    0.3    1.3    1.7
LAbOM FORCE ASD UUTPUT PEA WDSX                                                   TOTAL lAICS *OS   /
In Thousands                       Percent of Total        Growth Rate(S)
1974    1977    1978    1979            1974   1977   1978   1979        1978-79
Agriculture                       1.300   1,263   1,187   1,174             34.5   33.4   31.8   30.9         -1.1
ladustry                          1,307   1,250   1,283   1,330            34.7   33.0   34.3   35.0           3.7
services                          1,160   1,273   1,266   1,294            30.8   33.6   33.9   34.1           2.2
Total                           3,767   3,7b6   3,736   3,798           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           1.7
a/  At market prices.  bectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  atatistical discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
c/  Exchange rate since February 1980 US$I-Esc. 47.7.
d/ Estimated.
e/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
f/ nata tor years before and after 1975 are not fully comparable because of a revised
detinition of intermediate and capital goods.



- 33 -                                                                        NEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTb AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual
SUWYlAlY OF SALANCY OF PAYMENTS             1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Exports (F.D.B.)                        1,843  2,238  1,936  1,790  2,001  2,379  3,594
Imports (F.0.d.)                        2.745  4.277  3.606  3,965  4,533  4,787  6.016
Trade Balance kX-M)                      -902 -2,039 -1,670 -2,175 -2,532 -2,40B -2,422
Net Non-Factor Service                   67    -74   -170        54     82    276    530
Tourtsm Receipts (Gross)               (550)  (513)  (360)  (327)  (403)  (592)  (940)
&esource balance                         -835 -27113 -1,839 -2,121 -2,450 -2,132 -1,892
Net lnvestment Income j/                    86    129    -14   -133   -179   -329   -430
Net Transfers b/                        1,097  1,111  1,037    964  1.134  1,635  2,472
Balance on Current Account                 348   -873   -817 -1.290 -1.495   -826   +150
DIroet Foreiga lmy.tmot                    110    109    122       51      52     56      49
Public JILT Leame
Disbwresm.ts                             158    153    231    229    425  1,382    745
Asortiaation                              74     68      78      63     83      97    191
Net Disburrse-ents                          84      85    153    166    342  1,285    554
Uther MLT Loans
Net Disbur.ements                                               228    165    422    390
bhort-Term LUapital and Errors
and OUmssions                           135    -32    -89    105    -30    202    366
Ltner Capital (8.E.1.)                   -332    156    -58    612    607  1,036 -1,418
Changes in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
(- - increase)                       -345    554    688    128    359   -103    -91
ctticial xeserves
Groas Lnd oi Year cl                  2,839  2,354  1,534  1,301  1,391  1,880  1,951
Ot which:  G.ld                       1,163  1,193  1,136  1,125  1,025  1,009  1,020
Foreign Exchange          1,641  1,125    390    166    361    871    930
Actual
GDANT AiW LuAN ItIuMlIMENTs                                                                       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE dI        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978  1979
Ofticial Grants and Grant-like              -       -       3      -       -       -      -    Total Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed                   1,346  1,358  1,750  2,384  4,120 5,317
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                  Of which,  Public             723    825  1,005  1,458  2,772 3,392
LIRD                                     -       -       -      36      74    131    143   Interest on Public Debt             22      35      37     66    115   230
IDA                                      -       -       -       -      -       -       -    Repayments on Public Debt         68      78      63     83      97   191
Other M.Ltilateral                        -      -       -      123      87     63      69   Total Public Debt Service          90    113    100    149    212   421
Governnrs                                 -      20      65      96    195    743    134   Other N&LT Debt Service             140    215    157    332    385   483
b.ppli.r.                                -       27      35    164)   119)   608)   354)  Total M4LT Debt Service             230    328    257    481    597   904
F.nanccal Ma-cots                         -     413      20        )       1       7      7
Publ.c Loans n.e.i.                       -      -       -       -      _      - -      -    BURDEN ON EXPORT, NOP-FACTOR
Total Public MSLT Loans el                  51    460    120    419    475  1,545    700   SERVICES AND WO( KERSX
RLEMITTANCES (2)
Actual Debt Outstandina on December 31. 1979
EXTE5'NAL DEBT                           Disbursed OnlI                           Percent         Public Debt Service                2.0    2.9    2.9    3.7    4.1   5.5
liob                                        63                                      1.2        Total M6LT Debt Service              ..    8.8    7.4   11.8   11.4  11.8
IDA
6ther Multilateral                         285                                      5.4        Average Terms of Public Debt
Governments                             1,224                                     23.0            (Grant Element)                 13.3    9.4   15.3   18.4    6.2   4.8
buppliers                                  292                                      5.5         Interest as 2 Prior Year
Financtal Markets                       1,528                                     28.7            Public D00D                              4.8    4.5    6.6    7.9   8.3
Private No,i-Guaranteed Debt             1,925                                     36.2         Amortization as 2 Prior Year
Toitl Public and Private MtLT Debt         5.317                                    100.0           Public D06D                             10.8    7.6    8.3    6.7   6.9
IBRD Debt Outstanding end
Disbursed                       42.2   39.9   35.6   32.2   36.1  63.1
IBRD DOD as 2 Public Debt
Outstanding and Disbursed        5.8    4.7    3.5    2.2    1.3   1.9
18RD Debt Service es Z
Pubic Debt Service               6.9    5.6    6.1    4.4    3.4   3.1
*/ Largely interest payments.
bh Largely workers remittances.
c/ Gold, National Valuation. Special Drawing Rights, 35 per fine troy ounce and converted to US dollaro at currant rates.
December 1979 stock of 22.13 million ounces would give about $11 billion, valued at /500 per ounce.
dl  Debt servics as a ratio of earnings from exports, non-factor services and workers  remittances.
e/ D.es not include Central Sank borrowings.
Europe, Middle East and North Afric. Region
N.t avas-able.                                                                                                                      March 2, 1981,



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year     Borrower                Purpose                 Bank     Undisbursed
Six loans for power development fully disbursed*               93.5          -
1334 1976 Republic of Portugal        Highways                 24.0        12.5
1432 1977 Banco de Fomento Nacional Development Finance    50.0             7.3
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal        Water Supply             40.0        37.8
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal        Education I              21.0        20.8
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal        Agricultural Credit    70.0          70.0
1649 1979 Quimica de Portugal E.P.  Fertilizer Industry    58.0           41.3
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal        Highways II              40.0       39.97
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal        Small and
Medium Industry        45.0        44.0
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal        Education II             40.0       40.0
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal        Forestry                 50.0       50.0
1874 1980 COMETNA a/                  Mechanical Industry    33.4          33.19
1875 1980 SOREFAME a/                 Mechanical Industry    10.6          10.6
1942 1981 Second Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional                   Finance bt             100.0       100.0
TOTAL                                              675.5 ct   507.46
of which has been repaid                           46.1
TOTAL now outstanding                              629.4
Amount sold                          2.6
of which has been repaid            2.5             0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank d/                          629.3
TOTAL undisbursed                                               507.46
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1981)
None.
a/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
b/ Not yet effective.
c/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Includes a $36 million Power Loan of 1976.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I Project; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is
now completed) caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants; however, work on the study and
master plan is now substantially completed.
Loan 1432 - Banco de Fomento National Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. The loan is fully committed on schedule
and progress in disbursement is satisfactory.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works on the pipe plant have been completed. A solution
is being sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem despite recent
improvements. Studies are behind schedule due to delays in hiring consul-
tants. The Government has recently changed the management of EPAL; the new
management is taking measures to expedite project implementation.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including man-
agement training centers, are underway. Equipment lists are ready and pro-
curement of equipment is proceeding. Sites for project institutions have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
been acquired after initial delays. Technical assistance is being recruited
on schedule, the study on the teaching of science and engineering is com-
pleted, and the manpower study is underway. A general public service
moratorium on hiring personnel (to contain the growing budget deficit) has
delayed design work. This, combined with initial site acquisition problems,
has caused a considerable slippage. Recent remedial actions and
understandings, however, should improve implementation of civil works.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is
practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey and for the fish stock assessment survey. These surveys are now
substantially completed. Project implementation for the fisheries component
is progressing although it is about a year behind the original schedule.
The credit scheme for farm development in the Alentejo has only recently
been initiated. Excess liquidities in the banking system have so far
sharply limited recourse to IFADAP refinancing. The Government and the Bank
are in the process of reviewing the credit mechanisms.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58.0 Million Loan of March
14, 1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of consultants is completed; detailed engineering
work is underway. Construction has started in Alverga (nitric acid plant).
Procurement of equipment is progressing well. The fertilizer study has been
completed and its conclusions are being reviewed by the Government and the
Bank.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Engineering for highway rehabilitation is underway.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45
Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
A revision in the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for
Industrial Estates (EPPI) has been made to ensure better returns on invest-
ment. The technology study is underway and procurement on other technology
items is progressing. The institutions involved have started submitting
applications by companies eligible for the SMI subloans. The Central Bank
is planning measures to expedite the use of the credit line.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: July 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established. Implementa-
tion of the equipment procurement aspects of the project, staffing and staff
development plans are proceeding on schedule; however, civil works designs
are behind schedule. Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under
development. Implementation of the technical assistance program is on
schedule.
Loan 1853 - Forestry Project; $50 Million Loan of October 2, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The Project Coordination Unit has been established. Satisfactory
progress is being made on the acquisition of land and equipment and the
afforestation program is expected to begin as scheduled. Despite initial
delays, the technical assistance program is expected to be completed on
schedule. The Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP) is gearing up
to process subloans to cooperatives and/or associations of private forest
owners soon.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Project; $33.4 Million Loan to
COMETNA and $10.6 Million Loan to SOREFAME of October 2, 1980; Effectiveness
date: December 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Work and equipment procurement is underway. The engineering
industries subsector study has started. Technical assistance components are
proceeding.
Loan 1942 - Second Banco de Fomento Nacional Project; $100 Million Loan of
March 27, 1981; Effectiveness date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Appraisal of subprojects is underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project;   Six Months
(March 1980-September 1980)
(b) The agency which has prepared the project:         Petroleos de Portugal, E.P
(PETROGAL)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and         April 1980
date of first Bank mission to consider              and
the project:                                     May 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:            September 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:                April 17, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                     September 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Condition
The Bank has informed PETROGAL that it has concluded, on the
basis of information supplied by PETROGAL and on the basis of
prices and margins set by the Government, that PETROGAL is
expected not to incur a net loss and to achieve a current
ratio of 0.92 for 1981 (paras. 38 and 77).
2.   Disbursement Condition
PETROGAL to submit pre-location reports to the Bank for
approval for each well reasonably in advance of drilling
(paras. 51 and 77).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.   Other Conditions
Government
(i) GPEP to assemble and collate necessary data and turn it over
to PETROGAL for heavy oil screening study (para. 54).
(ii) Government to adopt a medium-term petroleum product pricing
policy to encourage economic use of products and to ensure
full cost recovery by PETROGAL (paras. 38 and 67).
(iii) Government to assist PETROGAL in improving its financial
position through equity contributions as needed and other
means (para. 67).
(iv) Government to assist PETROGAL in eliminating customer arrears
to PETROGAL and in ensuring prompt payments on future sales
(para. 68).
PETROGAL
(i) PETROGAL to implement financial planning study with the
assistance of consultants and to review the results with the
Government and the Bank (paras. 54 and 70).
(ii) PETROGAL to meet debt service coverage, debt/equity ratio,
and current ratio targets (para. 69), and to take measures to
eliminate customer arrears and ensure prompt payments on
future sales (para. 68).
(iii) PETROGAL to maintain appropriate ecological and safety
standards (para 71).



- 40 -
TABLE IV1                                                     ANNEX IV
ENERGY BALANCES, ACTUAL AND FORECAST /1                                   Page 1 of2
1965            1970             1975              1979       j       1985             1990
I
MTOE     %    MTOE       %      MTOE       %       MTOE      %    j  MTOE      %      MTOE      X
Production                 (2.00)   (40) (2.17)   (32)   (2.22)    (26)    (3.28)   (28)    (3.41)   (21)  (3.85)    (18)
Coal                     0.20       4   0.11       2      0.09       1       0.07       1      0.08       1    0.08        1
Hydropower /2            1.10      22   1.40      20      1.51      18       2.61      22   | 2.65       16    2.92       13
X~   Wood/Other                  0.70      14   0.66      10     0.62        7       0.60      5   1 0.68         4    0.85        4
N Net Imports Li                (2.97)   (60) (4.66)   (68)   (6.38)    (74)    (8.53)   (72)  1(12.90)   (79) (18.12)    (82)
9      Coal  /4                  0.46       9   0.58       8     0.30        4       0.34      3   j  0.70        4    3.12       14
g      Crude Oil/Products /4   2.47        50   4.07      60     6.06       70       8.21     69      12.20      75   15.00       68
Electricity              0.04       1   0.01       -      0.02       -      -0.02       -   j   -         -     -          -
TOTAL                      4.97    100   6.83    100        8.60     100      11.81    100   1 16.31    100   21.97        100
Change in Stocks                  +0.04      -   +0.11      -     -0.10       -      +0.65       -   I   -          -     -          _
Transformation, Energy                                                                                I
Sector Use, Losses  /5           1.08     22   1.81      27      2.56       29      3.63      33   I  4.31      26    5.96       27
z    Coal A                      0.64      17   0.60      13     0.26        4       0.29      4   I  0.65        5    1.30        8
S    Petroleum Products jj,    2.10        54   3.05      62     4.39       72       5.38      71   1  8.85      74   11.30       71
8     Town Gas                   0.04       1   0.05       1      0.06       1       0.06       1      0.06       -    0.06        -
Z    Electricity                 0.37      10   0.55      11     0.81       13       1.20     16   j  1.76       15    2.50       16
Wood/Other                  0.70     18   0.66      13      0.62       10      0.60       8       0.68      6    0.85         5
:     TOTAL                      3.85    100   4.91    100        6.13     100       7.53    100      12.00    100   16.01       100
Source:  Table based on data provided by DGE, including 4th Trimester 1979 (No. 31/79) issue of Petroleo and energy balances
prepared in September 1980, as well as energy statistics and balances published by OECD.
/1 Energy forecasts, prepared in September 1980, are updates of 1978 projections based on information from major energy
users, progress on investments, economic growth, etc. Growth rates in real terms averaging to 5 percent for GDP over the
period to 1990 were initially assumed, with the growth of energy consumption being higher yet in view of expected
industrial development; the impact of Government conservation policies and fuel price increases were not explicitly incor-
porated. In actual fact, GDP grew in real terms in 1979 by only 3.5 percent, and yet consumption of petroleum products was
some 2 percent higher than expected. Portugal plans to revise these forecasts within the coming year once a series of
studies on long term energy supply/consumption are concluded in connection with their program with the U.S. Department
of Energy.
12  Hydropower is expressed as the amount of fossil fuel required to generate the same amount of electricity in existing
ccrventional thernal stations (0.23 TOE/lOOOkWh), rather than as that with the same energy content as the generated electricity
(0.086 TOE/lOOOkWh), tne differential being the loss of energy as waste heat during the transformation process.
t3 Petroleum products are the only significant energy source exported, and other than exports for bunkers (0.6-0.7 MTIE in
recent years), trade in products is primarily to make short-term adjustments to balance refinery output/consumer demand; Table
IV.2 gives further details for petroleum products supply in 1979. Trade in electricity through interconnections with Spain
is also largely to correct short-term imbalances (e.g., in 1979 imports were 930 million kWh or 0.08 MTcE and exports 1163
million kWh or 0.10 MTOE).
/4 The need for imported coal may not increase quite as rapidly as forecast, as much of it is for use in thermal power plants
planned for the eighties and the investment program in power is substantial and delays in project implementation inevitable;
similarly in the case of crude oil/products where modifications in industrial development plans from heavy to medium or light
industry could affect energy requirements.
/5 The transformation, etc. section includes non-energy use of petroleum products for 1965-79 (some 0.4-0.5 MTOE in recent
years), reserving final consumption for energy use only.  In 1985-90, however, non-energy use appears to be included in final
consumption of petroleum products. The percentage figures in the transformation, etc. section are its share of energy supply net
of change in stocks.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
TABLE IV.2
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SUPPLY AND USE, 1979 /L
Liquefied    Motor   Aviation  Gas/Diesel  Heavy    Other Com-  Non-Energy Producta a
Pet.Gases  Gasoline   Fuels         Oil      Fuel Oil  bustibles    Napntha  Others   ITotal
SUPPLY (1000 tons)
Production                                173         905      428        1696         3405       125          290      174      17196
Trade                                    (329)       (-65)   (-107)       (136)        (200)      (-)          (-7)    (102)    1(588)
Imports                                 330           3      186         255         439         -            -       126      91339
Exports                                  -1        -68        -          -46          -          -            -7      -17      i-139
International Bunkers                    -          -       -293         -73        -239         -            -        -7     :-612
Change in Stocks (additions -;            -22         -90      -76       -157         -277         -8           _9       -1       -640
drawdowns +)
TOTAL                                     480        750       245       1675         3328        117          274      275     ,7144
Statistical Difference (1000 tons)           +2          +2       -5         +10           -         -6           +1       +5         +9
Refinery Use and Losses (1000 tons) J2        7          -         9          25          200        15           -         -        256
DOMESTIC USE
(1000 tons)                               471         748      241        1640        3128        108          273      270       6879
(M)                                         7         11         3          24          45          2            4        4     :100
Economic Activities (X) /3
Internal Market                          (100)       (100)     (-)         (92)         (97)     (100)        (100)      (99)      (93)
Industry                                 20         -         -            4           56        11/4         90       na         33
Transportation - Road                    -         100        -           78          -          -            -        na     '  31
-Rail                    -           -        -            3          -          -            -        na          1
Transformation - Electricity             -           -        -            1           34        -            -        na         16
-Town Gas                -           -        -            -           -         26 /5        10       na          1
Others                                   80 /6                -            6            7        63 /4        -        na         11
National Bunkers                          (-)         (-)     (100)         (8)          (3)        (-)        (-)        (1)       (7)
Aviation                                 -           -       100           -            _         _ -                    -     I   4
Marine                                   -           -        -            8            3         -           -          1    '   3
Source:  Table based on DGE's Sintese  Anual 1979 issue of Petroleo.
/1  Figures are net of processing contracts for export which entailed 858,000 tons of crude oil imported and 723,000 tons of
products exported.
/2 Total refinery use and losses amounted to 450,000 + 128,000 - 578,000 tons distributed over 8,378,000 tons crude oil and
products to be reprocessed, or about 7 percent of input (range among refineries 6-10 percent).
/3 Percentages are based on sales/deliveries rather than actual ccnsamption. Only subtotals in total column include non-
energy products other than naphtha.
/4 Kerosene (80,000 tons total); use in others category is domestic, agriculture, and commercial.
/5 Refinery gas (28,000 tons).
/6 Use is primarily domestic and retail commercial.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Product Pricing
The regulated market for petroleum products in Portugal accounts for nearly
95 percent of the domestic sales of premium and regular gasoline, kerosene,
gasoil, and fuel oil, or 75 percent of total domestic consumption of petro-
leum products including aviation and marine bunker fuels. Portugal follows
an import parity system of setting nationwide prices for these five major
petroleum products, as illustrated in the table below. The pricing system
for the other products, liquefied petroleum gases, aviation fuels, naphtha
and other non-energy products, and the remaining 5 percent or so of the major
fuels, appears to be less rigidly structured although still generally subject
to Government approval.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT PRICE STRUCTURE
December 1980
(US dollars per US gallon)
Price            Premium    Regular                          Heavy
Components          Gasoline   Gasoline  Kerosene 1/ Gasoil  Fuel Oil 2/
Persian Gulf Price
Plus Transport 3/      1.138       1.067     1.164       1.088   208.20
Refining Adjustment 4/   0.064       0.060     0.074       0.063    15.80
Ex-refinery Price         1.202      1.127      1.238      1.151   224.00
Customs Duty, National
Salvation Tax, Agent's
Fee 5/                 0.325       0.312     0.056       0.020     4.60
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------_
Commercial Expenses 6/   0.040       0.053     0.026       0.026     3.60
Profit Margin 7/         0.041       0.041     0.029       0.024     4.40
Retailer's Margin 8/     0.065       0.065     0.036       0.054       00
Marketing Margin          0.146      0.159     0.091       0.104     8.00
------------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Commodities Supply
Fund 9/                 1.877      1.668     0.213       0.323   -67.80
Selling------Price-------/--3--550----3--266---1---598---1--598-__-168.80---
Selling Price 9/          3.550      3.266     1.598       1.598   168.80



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
NOTES
1/ Kerosene for light; also set price of that for heat.
2/ Price in US dollars per metric ton. Specific gravity assumed to be 0.95,
for a conversion factor of 278 US gallons/ton. Fuel oil with 3.5 percent
sulfur; also set price of that with 1.0 percent sulfur.
3/ Average of set of posted product prices in Persian Gulf over previous
month; transport includes freight, insurance (0.5 percent), and losses (1
percent). This is adjusted monthly.
4/ Since the opening of the Sines refinery in 1978, a refining differential
has been paid to PETROGAL (from the Supply Fund) in an effort to compensate
the refineries for higher-than-industry-average costs due to underutili-
zation of capacity. The refining differential is calculated yearly on the
basis of PETROGAL's projected refining loss, one third of its overhead
costs, and a return on its net fixed assets involved in refining equivalent
to the prevailing discount rate of the Bank of Portugal; adjustments may be
made at year-end when actual costs are known. Under present Government
regulations, PETROGAL is entitled to some 70-80 percent of the internal
market for gasoline, kerosene, gasoil, and fuel oil, including sales to
EDP, the rest being handled by private companies (Shell, Mobil, British
Petroleum). The refining adjustment figure is a blend of PETROGAL's refin-
ing differential (estimated at about $12/ton in 1980) and the refining fee
charged to the private companies (some $40/ton in 1980).
5/ Customs duty is levied on the product when it leaves the refinery as though
it was imported; duty on crude oil is negligible.
6/ Based on a blend of the previous year's distribution expenses incurred by
PETROGAL and the private companies. An additional allowance for geographi-
cally distributing products is reimbursed to companies out of the Supply
Fund after the product is sold (ranging from $0.014-$0.061 per gallon for
gasoline and gasoil and from $0.035-0.078 per gallon for kerosene in 1980).
7/ Based on a blend of a roughly 15 percent return on the various companies'
net total assets involved in distribution in the previous year.
8/ Based on sampling of retailers' costs in the previous year.
9/ The final selling price of the products is set by the Cabinet of Ministers,
while the annual budget of the Supply Fund is determined by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, to be distributed among the products by DGE. The
amounts allotted to each product vary somewhat from month to month as the
Supply Fund is used to offset monthly adjustments in the ex-refinery price
until the final selling price is adjusted (once or twice a year as neces-
sary, most recently December 18, 1980).  Gasoline and gasoil have been
taxed and fuel oil subsidized since at least 1971; kerosene was generally
subsidized from late 1973-78 but is now usually taxed with occasional
adjustments. The selling price of fuel oil does not include delivery
except in the case of that sold for electricity generation; agricultural
and fisheries users are entitled to a rebate on their purchases of gasoil.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Exploration Prospects
Introduction
1.        Two areas (basins) in Portugal are considered to have some pros-
pects for the discovery of oil and gas. These are the western Atlantic
Basin, locally termed the Lusitanian Basin, and the Algarve Basin (see map).
The Lusitanian Basin covers the onshore and adjacent offshore from Porto on
the north to Sines on the south, approximately 350 km, with a width averaging
about 80 km, widest just north of Lisbon. The basin has an area of
about 28,000 km2 and a sedimentary volume of some 100,000 km3. Annex VII
details its petroleum geology; the proposed project is onshore in this
basin. The Algarve Basin occupies the southern offshore Atlantic shelf and
margin and adjacent onshore. It continues eastward into Spain, where gas
discoveries have been made offshore.
Lusitanian Basin
2.        Exploration History and Current Status.  Excluding unrecorded early
holes, exploratory drilling onshore in Portugal began in the Lusitanian Basin
in 1939 and continued rather steadily until 1963. Companhia de Petroleos de
Portugal had exclusive exploration rights during this period, but from time
to time took on foreign partners, principally French companies and Mobil.
Since 1963 the exploratory tests drilled onshore have been limited to shallow
wells with heavy oil objectives. Only 27 of the 90 onshore wells penetrated
deeper than 1,000 m; only ten of these were carried below 2,000 m, and only
three below 3,000 m. Thus there has been no substantive exploratory drilling
effort onshore in the past 17 years, and the most recent exploratory wells
predated the development of common depth point seismic methods and digital
recording of seismic records.
3.        Offshore contracts for exploration were first let to foreign com-
panies in 1973; between 1974 and 1978, some 20 exploratory wells were drilled
in the Lusitanian Basin. Operators included Shell, Sun, Esso, and Texaco.
These were deep tests ranging from 2,000 to 4,000 m in depth. The wells were
located on seismic prospects of modern vintage and of fair to good data
quality. All of the offshore acreage has been subsequently relinquished by
the operators.



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
4.        Four contract areas onshore in the Lusitanian Basin are presently
in force, two held by PETROGAL and two by foreign oil companies (see map).
PETROGAL's areas, each comprising three blocks, were awarded in 1978 and 1979
for an initial period of four years; seismic work and three exploratory wells
are required. Shortly after this, a contract was agreed with a Canadian
enterprise, Sceptre, Bow Valley, and Siebens. Sceptre commenced drilling its
one obligation well, the first deep test onshore in Portugal since 1963, at
the end of Octobe- iq80. Negotiations with Union Texas, a subsidiary of
Allied Chemical, tor an additional contract area onshore were completed in
late 1980. This contract includes an option for the operator to relinquish
the area after two years with only a seismic obligation, or to continue the
contract and drill at least two wells in the ensuing two-year period.
5.        General Prognosis.  Some 55 percent of the 110 exploratory wells
drilled in the Lusitanian Basin to date encountered oil and gas shows; of
these, 75 percent consisted of heavy oil found at shallow depths. There is
no doubt that oil has been generated in the Lusitanian Basin. The explora-
tion history and petroleum geology (Annex VII) further indicate that the
probability of ultimately finding small commercial deposits is rather high.
6.        Due to the stratigraphic and structural complexities of the basin,
particularly the late reversal of structures, the search will be difficult
and large fields are not expected. Recent advances in exploration technology
should be sufficient to determine the optimum relationships between structure
and potential reservoirs and to permit the selection of the best sites for
further exploratory drilling. The larger prospects may well be stratigraphic
traps, i.e. reefs and carbonate or sandstone porosity pinchouts on the flanks
of present structures. The structurally more complex features may require an
intensive seismic effort to locate traps either on the flanks or at depths.
Field sizes of 25 million barrels or less would likely be the norm. The
petroleum industry obviously recognizes this, hence the lack of enthusiasm
for the basin. However, depending upon costs, producing rates, and realized
price, fields in the 5 million-25 million barrel reserve range should be
economically exploitable. The heavy oil deposits also warrant further
evaluation in light of current and forecast oil prices and recent technical
advances in the stimulation processes for recovery.
Algarve Basin
7.        The Algarve Basin is best developed offshore in the southern
Atlantic shelf and adjacent deeper water, although its northern flank is
onshore. This basin contains both Mesozoic and Tertiary deposits. The
Mesozoic structure and stratigraphy appear to be similar in many respects to



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
the Lusitanian Basin, although much less is known about them. The Algarve
Basin differs in that a wedge of Tertiary sediments thickening seaward is
present offshore. Just to the east in Spain, Tertiary clastics, probably of
Miocene age, have been proven gas productive on five structures.
8.        Esso has recently signed a contract on the deep water area off
Portugal just west of the Spanish border, presumably to attempt to extend the
gas productive area westward into Portugal (see map). Esso is committed to a
seismic program and a minimum of two wells during an initial three-year
period. This is a substantial effort considering that the principal pros-
pects are for gas in water 200-800 m in depth. The three wells drilled off-
shore in the Algarve under earlier contracts have had no shows of oil or
gas. One of these is on the Esso contract area and represents the only deep
water exploratory test drilled in Portugal to date.



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Geology of the Lusitanian Basin
Introduction
1.        Some 90 exploratory wells have been drilled in the onshore portion
of the Lusitanian Basin, and a modest amount of seismic survey work conducted
although most of the data are old and only marginally useable. Twenty
exploratory wells have been drilled offshore, and seismic coverage is of
modern vintage and of fair to good quality. Annex VI gives further details
of the basin's exploration history and petroleum prospects in brief.
Basin Development and Stratigraphy
2.        Based on the subsurface control and extensive detail surface
geologic mapping, the Lusitanian Basin appears to have been formed by
generally north/south trending block faulting during late Permian or early
Triassic time, probably associated with the opening of the north Atlantic
Ocean. In its early stages the basin is essentially a graben, or series of
grabens. As determined by analysis of the seismic and a few isolated surface
outcrops and several well penetrations, the early Triassic basis fill is
principally non-marine sandstone. One or more layers of relatively thick
evaporite (principally rock salt) was deposited above the sandstone section,
with the thicker salt deposits restricted to individual graben depressions.
The Triassic sandstone and salt are at least 1,500 m thick in the central
portion of the basin.
3.        Marine deposition, consisting of dark shales and limestones of a
moderate to deep water marine environment, began in the Lias (Lower
Jurassic). The Lias may be up to 1,300 m in thickness. During the Middle
Jurassic (Dogger), shallower water limestones containing evidence of "reefs"
and interbedded shales were deposited totalling about 1,000 m in thickness.
During the Upper Jurassic, the basin subsided again with dark marine shales
being deposited in localized low areas and shallow marine limestones on
structural highs and along the basin margin. Near the close of the Upper
Jurassic, the remaining lows and/or channels were subsequently filled with
thick sandstones, delta or fan deposits. The Upper Jurassic is about 1,300 m
thick, giving a total Jurassic section of about 3,500 m in localized thick
areas. During the Lower Cretaceous, shallow water marine and continental
sands filled the remaining basin lows lapping out on the then existing
highs. Sedimentation ended with a widespread deposit of shallow marine lime-
stones of Upper Cretaceous age, some 300 m thick.



- 48 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
Structure
4.        From the development of the Lusitanian Basin in early Triassic
through mid-Jurassic, the basin underwent periodic episodes of widening
and/or deepening (conditions of tension). Structuring during this time
appears restricted to the major fault blocks. At the beginning of the Upper
Jurassic the basin began to close, apparently as a result of lateral movement
along the faults, and compressional structures were initiated. The deposi-
tional basin of the Upper Jurassic was segmented into sub-basins between the
growing structures. This movement continued sporadically into mid-Cretaceous
time with increasing deformation culminating in volcanic activity, extrusion
of basalt and the implacement of dikes, particularly concentrated in the
basin center just north and west of Lisbon. Additional compressional move-
ments took place during the Tertiary Period resulting in the complete inver-
sion of the Lusitanian Basin forming present structural-related topography.
Simultaneously, a young basin filled with Tertiary non-marine clastics was
formed east of the Tejo River.
5.        These compressive movements resulted in severe deformation and
structural complexity, particularly near the basin axis, diminishing toward
the eastern and western margins. The present basin axis is a banana-shaped
elongate north/south, lying predominantly onshore. It crosses the coastline
near Figueira da Foz in the north and Estoril-Cascais in the south (see
map). Basin inversion or reversal has the effect of placing the depositional
lows on present structural crests and depositional highs in present synclines.
Source and Reservoir Rocks
6.        There are primarily two source rock intervals in the Lusitanian
Basin, at least partially identified by geochemical analysis: the widespread
dark shales and limestones of the Lias and the localized dark shales in the
lower portion of the Upper Jurassic. Potential reservoirs are found in the
sometimes porous shallow water carbonates, including reefs, of the Middle and
Upper Jurassic and the uppermost Jurassic sandstones where developed.
Oil and Gas Shows
7.        Of the 110 exploratory wells drilled in the Lusitanian Basin (90
onshore and 20 offshore), some 60 encountered bona fide shows of oil and
gas. However, 45 of these consisted of heavy oil found at shallow depths on
several complex structures near the basin axis in the vicinity of Torres
Vedras and Monte Real (see map). Fifteen deep wells had shows of oil, four
offshore Figueira da Foz and 11 onshore.



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
8.        The best of the deep well oil shows occured at Barreiro, 12 km
southeast of downtown Lisbon, where a well encountered up to 20 m of very
good light oil saturation in porous Middle Jurassic limestone. The well was
not conclusively tested although several attempts were made. Recovery con-
sisted of mud and mud filtrate with some oil but no formation water. Another
show occurred in a well at Arruda, 6 km northwest of Vila Franca de Xeira,
where good light oil saturations were encountered in Upper Jurassic sand-
stones. However, this zone was not tested. Two of the offshore wells had
good shows recov-  g some light oil on tests from rather thin reservoirs in
the Lias and Middle Jurassic limestones. No gas shows of significance have
been encountered.
Heavy Oil
9.        The heavy oil has been found both in the subsurface and at surface
outcrops. Mining of surface outcrops for asphalt has taken place for
over 150 years, but this resource has never been fully evaluated. The occur-
rence of heavy oil is associated with complex highly deformed structures
often associated with salt diapirs. It is reservoired in Upper Jurassic
sandstones and in both Middle and Upper Jurassic limestones at depths of less
than 1,000 m. It is quite heavy and viscous (12-140 API), and only a few
of the wells were tested. One well in the Torres Vedras area produced 55
barrels on test at the rate of about 5 barrels per day. No completion
attempts have been made. Areally the accumulations are small; however, they
are numerous. At least 8 areas have been identified so far.



- 50 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
PETROGAL
Statements of Income, 1977-1984
(In Millions of Contos)
----------Actual---------    ----------Forecast-----------
Year Ending December 31   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
REVENUE
Gross Revenues from Sales    31.0   36.5   64.0  107.7   186.7   300.0   353.0   413.0
Less Prime Cost of Sales 1/ (19.7) (23.7) (33.3) (79.3) (141.5) (239.0) (277.2) (321.8)
Gross Margin on Sales    11.3   12.8   30.7   28.4    45.2    61.0    75.8    91.2
Other Income (Net)              2.4    3.1    2.3    3.2       2.2      2.7     3.3      4.0
Total Operating Revenue  13.7   15.9   33.0   31.6    47.4    63.7    79.1    95.2
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses 2/          10.9   11.2   19.1   12.2    25.4    29.0    33.6    39.0
Depreciation                    0.7    0.6    3.1    3.2       4.4      4.4     4.9      5.4
Total Operating Expenses 11.6   11.8   22.2   15.4    29.8    33.4    38.5    44.4
Net Income Before Interest    2.1    4.1   10.8   16.2    17.6    30.3    40.6    50.8
Interest on Short-Term Debt   0.4    3.1    4.5    8.3    14.0    20.4    23.4    26.3
Interest on Long-Term Debt    1.1    0.8    3.8    3.7         3.6      3.6     3.6      3.5
Total Interest              1.5    3.9    8.3   12.0    17.6    24.0    27.0    29.8
Net Income After Interest       0.6    0.2    2.5    4.2        -       6.3    13.6    21.0
Income Tax 3/                    -    (0.1)   1.2    2.0        -       2.9     6.4      9.9
Net Profit                      0.6    0.3    1.3    2.2        -       3.4     7.2    11.1
Return on Total Assets %        4.8    6.4   10.8   12.9    13.1    16.3    17.8    19.8
1/ Assumes a substantial increase in crude refined from 7.6 million tons in
1980, to 8.5 million tons in 1981 and 10.0 million tons beginning in 1982.
2/ Including refining and marketing expenses, customs duties and provisions.
3/ Including adjustments.
Notes on this statement and assumptions used in the projections are in the
project file.



- 51 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 3
PETROGAL
Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds 1978-84
(In Millions of Contos)
------Actual------   ----------Forecast--------
Year Ending December 31                  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
SOURCES
Net Income before Interest                   4.1   10.8   16.2   17.6   30.3   40.6   50.8
Depreciation and Provisions                  1.0    3.3    3.3    4.7    4.7    5.2    5.7
5.1   14.1   19.5   22.3   35.0   45.8   56.5
Other Sources                                 -      0.4      -      -       -      2.0    2.0
Increase in Capital                           -      1.2    0.5    0.5       -       -       -
Borrowings 1/                                7.7    4.9    2.9    6.6    3.3    2.0    2.0
TOTAL SOURCES                           12.8   20.6   22.9   29.4   38.3   49.8   60.5
APPLICATIONS
Investments 2/                              10.2    5.3    6.6    7.9    5.0    4.0    4.0
Debt Service:
Amortization                               1.1    1.8    2.8    3.4    4.4    5.4    6.8
Interest 3/                                3.9    8.3   12.0   17.6   24.0   27.0   29.8
Total Debt Service                         5.0   10.1   14.8   21.0   28.4   32.4   36.6
Income Tax                                  (0.1)   1.2    2.0       -      2.9    6.4    9.9
Working Capital:
Customers' Accounts                         1.7    3.7    2.4   12.9    6.0    3.0    4.0
Inventories                                 5.1   15.2    9.7   13.5   24.0   10.0   12.0
Other Current Assets                        1.9    4.8    1.9    2.1    4.0    4.0    4.0
Increase (Decrease) in Current Assets   8.7   23.7   14.0   28.5   34.0   17.0   20.0
Short-Term Loans                           (6.3)  (9.8) (15.7) (24.5) (31.0)  (6.0)  (3.0)
Other Current Liabilities                  (4.7)  (9.9)   1.2   (3.5)  (1.0)  (4.0)  (7.0)
Decrease (Increase) in Current
Liabilities                              (11.0) (19.7) (14.5) (28.0) (32.0) (10.0) (10.0)
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital (2.3)   4.0   (0.5)   0.5    2.0    7.0   10.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      12.8   20.6   22.9   29.4   38.3   49.8   60.5
Total Debt Service Coverage - Times          1.0    1.3    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.3
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage - Times  1.1    1.5    1.4    1.2    1.5    1.8    2.0
1/ Including drawdowns on Bank loan of 0.21 in 1981 and 0.86 in 1982.
2/ Including expenditure on proposed project of 0.10 in 1980, 0.34 in 1981,
and 0.96 in 1982.
3/ Including interest on short-term debt.
Notes on this statement and assumptions used in the projections are in the
project file.



- 52 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
PETROGAL
Balance Sheets, 1977-1984
(In Millions of Contos)
----------Actual---------    -----------Forecast----------
As of December 31   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets              10.7   18.6   44.8   47.0    64.3    66.5    70.4    73.8
Less Depreciation             (6.1) (10.2) (13.3) (16.5)  (20.9)  (25.3)  (30.2)  (35.6)
Net Fixed Assets               4.6    8.4   31.5   30.5    43.4    41.2    40.2    38.2
Work in Progress                19.3   28.7    7.6   11.8        1.2      3.4      2.9      2.9
Other Assets - Net 1/            3.4    3.4    3.0    3.1    10.0    10.3          8.6      6.9
Current Assets:
Customers' Accounts 1/        11.3   13.0   16.7   19.1    26.0    32.0    35.0    39.0
Inventories                    8.4   13.5   28.7   38.4    51.9    75.9    85.9    97.9
Other Current Assets           7.4    9.3   14.1   16.0    18.1    22.1    26.1    30.1
Total Current Assets          27.1   35.8   59.5   73.5    96.0   130.0   147.0   167.0
TOTAL ASSETS                  54.4   76.3  101.6  118.9   150.6   184.9   198.7   215.0
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity:
Capital                        6.1    6.1    7.3    7.8        8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3
Revaluation Reserve             -     4.0    4.0    4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Retained Earnings               -     0.3    1.6    3.8        3.8      7.2    14.4    25.5
Total Equity 2/                6.1   10.4   12.9   15.6    16.1    19.5    26.7    37.8
Long-Term Debt                  18.5   25.1   28.2   28.3    31.5    30.4    27.0    22.2
Current Liabilities:
Short-Term Debt               16.7   23.0   32.8   48.5    73.0   104.0   110.0   113.0
Other Current Liabilities  13.1   17.8   27.7   26.5    30.0    31.0    35.0    42.0
Total Current Liabilities  29.8   40.8   60.5   75.0   103.0   135.0   145.0   155.0
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES   54.4   76.3  101.6  118.9   150.6   184.9   198.7   215.0
Current Ratio - Times           0.91   0.88   0.98   0.98    0.93    0.96    1.01    1.08
Debt/Equity Ratio              75/25  71/29  69/31  64/36   66/34   61/39   50/50   37/63
Total Debt/Equity Ratio        89/11  86/14  87/13  87/13   89/11   89/11   87/13   82/18
1/ Assumes conversion of 6.0 in customers' accounts from short-term to
medium-term assets at end-1981.
2/ Assumes no dividend distribution.
Notes on this statement and assumptions used in the projections are in the
project file.



- 53 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs and Financing Plan
Project Costs:                    Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total
(In Escudos Millions)       (In US$ Millions)
Reprocessing Existing Data 1/    -          6.4       6.4       -     0.12   0.12
Seismic Survey I (IAO0km) 1/    13.4    77.9         91.3     0.25   1.45   1.70
Seismic Survey II kjO0km)         29.5   248.7    278.2       0.55   4.63   5.18
Three Exploratory Wells 2/    100.0   545.3    645.3          1.86  10.15  12.01
Petroleum Geophysicist             2.2    11.8       14.0     0.04   0.22   0.26
Drilling Management                3.2    24.7       27.9     0.06   0.46   0.52
Senior Explorationist              1.1      6.4       7.5     0.02   0.12   0.14
Laboratory Services I 1/           0.5      8.1       8.6     0.01   0.15   0.16
Laboratory Services II             1.6      4.9       6.5      0.03   0.09   0.12
Heavy Oil Screening Study          0.6      5.9       6.5     0.01   0.11   0.12
PETROGAL Planning Study           21.5    10.7       32.2     0.40   0.20   0.60
Subtotal 3/               173.6   950.8  1,124.4        3.23  17.70  20.93
Physical Contingencies 4/         26.8   148.3    175.1       0.50   2.76   3.26
Price Contingencies 5/            25.2    72.0       97.2     0.47   1.34   1.81
Total                     225.6 1,171.1  1,396.7        4.20  21.80  26.00
Local Foreign Total
Financing Plan                                                 (In US$ Millions)
PETROGAL                                                      4.20   1.80   6.00
Bank Loan                                                       -    20.00  20.00
Total                                                   4.20  21.80  26.00-
1/  To be totally financed by PETROGAL.
qp        2/  Based on the assumption that one of the three wells will be completed at
a cost of $0.51 million (see Annex IX, page 2).
3/  Based on February 1981 estimates.
4/  Based on a 0 percent contingency on the reprocessing of existing data and
the first seismic survey, a 10 percent contingency on the second seismic
survey, and a 20 percent contingency on all other cost items.
5/  Based on a 9.0 percent and 8.5 percent escalation of foreign costs in
1981 and in 1982 respectively and a 17.0 percent and 15.0 percent escala-
tion of local costs in these two years. No escalation is included for
the reprocessing of old seismic data, the seismic surveys, and the
foreign exchange cost of the geophysicist, drilling management and the
senior explorationist.



- 54 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of One Exploration Well
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
(In Escudos Millions)       (In US$ Millions)
Site Preparation 1/              20.682     -    20.682    0.385       -     0.385
Drilling Rig 2,3/                 8.058  82.730  90.788    0.150   1.540   1.690
Materials and Equipment
(tubular goods, cement, mud &
chemicals, and miscellaneous
equipment)                      1.612  65.538  67.150    0.030   1.220   1.250
Services (mud, chemicals and
cement services, mud logging,
electrical logging, testing,
and perforation)                1.880  25.357  27.237    0.035   0.472   0.507
Subtotal                  32.232 173.625 205.857    0.600   3.232   3.832
Provision for Completion 4/       1.075   8.058   9.133    0.020   0.150   0.170
Total                     33.307 181.683 214.990    0.620   3.382   4.002
1/  Includes an allocation for land rent of $0.24 million prorated over three
wells.
2/  Based on a proration over three wells of the estimated $750,000 cost of
rig mobilization and demobilization, an estimated drilling contract cost
of $16,000 per day, and an estimated drilling requirement of 90 days per
well.
3/  The local costs associated with the drilling rig include local labor,
supplies and services for camp, fuels, lubricants, and water.
4/  Based on a proration over three wells on the assumption that one of the
three will be completed as a producer at a completion cost of $510,000.



PORTUGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1  9  8  O                   _         1  9  8  1                           1  9  8  2
_J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A H J J A S O N D
Existing Seisinic Data.
Seismnic Survey I
Seismic Survey II
Exploratory Well I
Exploratory Well II
Exploratory Well III
Petroleum Geophysicist
Drilling Management
Senior Explorationist
Laboratory Services I
Laboratory Services II
Heavy Oil Screening
Study






IBRD 15422
9 ':   l  . .  4           8                          7                            6I      JANUARY 1981
42'                                                                                                                                              42'
(S
:Bragag
V          \  ~~~Oporto                                               t    E
4t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
A TLANTIC    (fANI                                                o 
-40                                                                                                                                              40
J     '41                      ea IPORTUGAL
9~aa                         Praer                    PETROLEUM  EXPLORATION
t.~~~~~~~~~~~~l                               PralgeCONCESSION AREAS:
ant.m   I                                                       Li0  o
:~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ -                                            A, s, of Ljio C oasin
.arrs F  ue i           oM r                                                           WETR eG      n
4ff ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -  Inentioa  Bonnda....... ries
38'
eXeiran TexaW                                                           k s   excls
.H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h con rnenc ofte edeso
~~ )       /?gW  Tei /                 t                            P0RTUGA(VWHeLw Oi
ovr-Limit of the Ceno-Mesonsic Basins
< 4 --Ax s of L~cjudgamen Bosi n
. . 1 / MouraWatr                       so D   in Meterrits an endrs
> 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,Rlers
/:    I.tematioral Bonactesund
toe3'      ;                (     /   j        i'              Beja
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    38',0
:  -      \                          v                                    vVo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rld Sank's at.lff -1-ws/ely for
\     \                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~the conveience of the meade.s of
.   F   . ,#f              \                   $                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The denmo-ario- used and the
0  1~~ ~~~~~~~~~                  gz'-W                                                         W-1 Be k aridV it dooftk, hapffifiat-, any
. . . J ( Of s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _A~~~~~t5~~~~R ~a,y term/oq - arnyendorse.artt
-37-  -  1                                                    -     .          .       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or aswept    of such boundanes
tD D S .5 w 0 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S P A I 
: NtL METER..... 4;..... .. , ^/>/>... i........-<oINt  



