             Document of
           The World Bank




                                    Report No: 35351-AL

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-33270)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.6 MILLION
    (US$ 9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                  TO

               ALBANIA

                FOR A

LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT




             June 12, 2006

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective February 24, 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (LEK)
                       US$1.00 = US$ LEK 103.9

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1st    December 31st

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABA-CEELI American Bar Association Central European and Eurasian Law
Initiative
ADR         Alternative Dispute Resolution
Bank        World Bank
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCMIS       Civil Case Management Information System
CODIS       Code Information System for Albanian legislation
CoE         Council of Europe
DANIDA      Danish International Development Assistance
EU          European Union
EURALIUS    European Assistance to Albanian Justice
FoL         Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana
GoA         Government of Albania
GTZ         Gesellschaft für Zusammenarbeit (German Organization for
Cooperation)
HCJ         High Council of Justice
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Agency
IT          Information Technology
JUDIS       Judgments Information System for Albanian Supreme
            Court decisions
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
LJR         Legal and Judicial Reform Project
MEDART      Commercial Mediation and Arbitration Center
MoJ         Ministry of Justice
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
OSCE        Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SAC         Strategic Adjustment Credit
SPC         State Publications Center
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID              United States Agency for International Development

                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu

              Country Director   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                Sector Director  Cheryl Gray
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David S. Bernstein

                                           ALBANIA
                               Legal & Judicial Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P057182                                                  Project Name: Legal & Judicial Reform Project
Team Leader: David S. Bernstein                                      TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Legal & Judicial Reform Project                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-33270
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (82%); Tertiary education (18%)
                  Theme: Law reform (P); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Legal services (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/07/1999                                     Effective: 07/17/2000                07/17/2000
     Appraisal: 12/02/1999                                         MTR:                             07/07/2003
      Approval: 03/21/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
                      Other Partners:      High Council of Jusice, Magistrates School, University of Tirana Faculty of Law,
                                           Commercial Mediation and Arbitration Center

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             David S. Bernstein                             Sandra Bloemenkamp
ICR Primary Author:             Gina Schaar (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        Context: After violent civil unrest and severe destruction of Albanian state property in
1997 exposed the fragility of the country's institutions and their lack of effectiveness, the
Government of Albania (GoA) adopted a comprehensive policy reform program to strengthen
Albania's weak institutional and governance capacity, including its ability to enforce its laws and
regulations. This reform program was supported under the World Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) in both 1998 and 2002, and complemented by a Structural Adjustment
Credit which was ongoing at the time the Legal and Judicial Reform (LJR) was initiated. At
Project inception in 2000, Albania was still recovering from the effects of both the 1997 violence
and the strains on public resources resulting from the influx of refugees from Kosovo in 1999. A
greater degree of attention was being focused on the legal and judicial sector by the GoA, the
World Bank and a number of other national and international donors.               A long process of
constitutional and legislative drafting had been ongoing for some time; this had put in place or
modified governing legislation for a number of existing and newly created legal and judiciary
institutions.   Corruption, poor organization and administration, low salaries and lack of
coordination were problems common to all public sector institutions.

        Objectives: The overall goal of the Project was to build on earlier policy reforms,
supported by IDA and other donors, by supporting the continued implementation of the
Government of Albania's agenda for legal and justice system reform. The objective of the Project
was to strengthen the implementation of the rule of law in Albania by improving the functioning
and strengthening the capacity of key legal and judicial institutions. In particular, the Project
aimed at the following medium and long term outcomes:
1.      a strengthened system of legal and judicial education, resulting in better trained legal
professionals;
2.      a more accessible, transparent (less-corrupt), and effective judicial system, including
improved enforcement of judicial decisions;
3.      the use of mediation and arbitration as alternative means to resolve commercial disputes
outside the formal justice system; and
4.      improved access by government officials, judges, parliamentarians, legal professionals, the
business community, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive, and up-to-date legal
information.
        The overall objective followed naturally from the priorities of the GoA and of the World
Bank (as stated in the July 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the February 2000 CAS
Progress Report) to improve governance and to strengthen public institutions. The focus on
strengthening the capacity and performance of key legal and judicial institutions was: (i)
appropriate given Albania's stage of development at that point, (ii) aligned with the GoA's
strategy to strengthen the application and enforcement of Albanian law which was, and continues
to be, under a comprehensive process of reform and modernization; and (iii) complemented the
activities of the GoA and other donors involved then in legal and judicial reform in Albania.

3.2 Revised Objective:
        The objectives of the Project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                - 2 -

        The Project comprised five components which include some of the most important
elements for the efficient and transparent functioning of legal and judicial sector institutions.
These were:
        1. Improving legal education at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana (FoL),
through: (i) a faculty development and training program; (ii) institutional strengthening for the
FoL; (iii) provision of books, materials, and equipment; and (iv) rehabilitation and expansion of
the FoL premises;
        2. Strengthening of the judiciary through: (i) improvements in court and case management
               systems; (ii) building the capacity of the Magistrates' School for improved judicial
               training; (iii) improving enforcement of civil judgments; and (iv) strengthening
               judicial inspection;
        3. Institutional strengthening to support the use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
               mechanisms for commercial disputes;
        4. Strengthening the dissemination of legal information, through the establishment of a
               centralized electronic legal information system; and
        5. Project management.
3.4 Revised Components:
        The components were not formally revised during Project implementation. However,
Project savings from the cancellation of works at the FoL were redirected toward: additional
activities under Component 4 for Disseminating Legal Information for the computerization of the
issuance of criminal records certificates and the establishment of a Public Information Office in the
Ministry of Justice; expanding Subcomponent 2(iv) for Strengthening Judicial Inspection to
include broader institutional capacity building for the newly constituted High Council of Justice;
and additional support for the commercial ADR Center in Component 3.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
        The Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory. As noted above, the Project design reflected
Government priorities and was aligned with the World Bank's strategy in Albania. The Project
design had benefited from extensive analysis of the legal and judicial framework in Albania, both
by the World Bank and other donors. It also benefited from concerted efforts to coordinate the
World Bank's assistance with other donor activities in Albania and within the EU context.

        The project was originally proposed as a joint Judicial and Public Administration project,
but later at the Decision Meeting, it was recommended to split the operation into two projects.
(The Albania Public Administration Reform Project (P069939) was approved by the Board at the
same time as this project.)       Even so, the complexity and risk of implementing so many
components in the legal and judicial arena alone was acknowledged at the outset, but the strategy
considered the interdependency of legal and judicial institutions and recognized that the reform
process should be systematic and have a long term outlook. The individual components were
specific and focused, although ambitious. In particular, the goal of rolling out a modern case and
court management system to all courts was overly ambitious, given capacity levels and the time
frame. In general, however, the balance of technical assistance and more basic goods and services
appears to have been appropriate to Albania's stage of development and the needs of the judicial
sector.




                                                 - 3 -

         In assessing Borrower ownership, appropriate weight was placed on the GoA's actions
prior to Project inception in support of the rule of law, such as the major effort underway at the
time of project inception to harmonize the legislative framework for key legal institutions, national
re-testing of judges, establishment of a State Publication Center in the Ministry of Justice, and
reforms at the Faculty of Law.         However, it appears that less attention was paid to the
commitment at the level of the individual beneficiary institutions, notwithstanding the
well-recognized weaknesses in capacity. With hindsight, this corresponded directly to the relative
performance of various components.

         The project documentation accurately identified specific risks--such as Albania's weak
institutional capacity, lack of experience with democracy and capitalism, existence of widespread
corruption, frequent changes in government, and inadequate counterpart financing--which indeed
affected Project outcomes. The measures taken to counter these risks were appropriate ones: (a)
simple, focused components; (b) training for staff of beneficiary institutions; (c) involvement of
stakeholders in Project design; (d) policy guidance by an inter-institutional Coordination Council;
and (e) providing training and consultant services to the PIU.

         Although implementation arrangements appear to have been adequate, there was a
significant learning curve for the project implementation unit and the beneficiary agencies at the
outset, which may have been mitigated by the advance preparation of some TORs and earlier
technical assistance to the PIU. Given the significant learning curve, the external PIU may have
ended up being analogous to having had the Ministry of Justice manage project implementation.
This, in turn, would have built lasting capacity inside the government. However, it is important to
note that the external PIU was instrumental in maintaining progress during project implementation
throughout the frequent changes in the Minister of Justice.

         The project did suffer from the broader issue of tension between the judiciary and
executive in an evolving constitutional, political and legal framework. However, it is not clear
how the design of the project could have more adequately addressed these issues.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the LJR project is rated Unsatisfactory(using the new six point scale the
rating would be Moderately Unsatisfactory). In general, the LJR project achieved its objective
of strengthening the implementation of the rule of law in Albania by improving the functioning of
key legal and judicial institutions.   The Project contributed to improving judicial education,
increasing transparency through public access to legal and judicial information, strengthening the
management of the judiciary, provision of commercial ADR services in Albania and improving the
issuance of criminal records certificates (widely required for job applications and employment in
Albania). In other areas ­ legal education, judicial inspection, enforcement of civil decisions, and
court and case management ­ much less was achieved than was intended.

         In the recent Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS), the
percentage of firms reporting `the functioning of judiciary' as a problem for doing business fell



                                                 - 4 -

from 62 percent (63 percent among firms that had used the courts) in 2002 to 56 (60) percent in
2005, although this remains significantly higher than the average among countries in Southeastern
Europe. Seventy-four (74) percent of firms reported in 2005 that information about laws is easy
to obtain compared with 60 percent in 2002. Also, those reporting confidence in the legal system
rose from 50 percent in 2002 to 56 percent in 2005. It is important to note, however, that in the
more specific assessments of the judiciary itself, improvements reported by the general population
were not echoed among firms that had actually used the courts in the preceding 3 years. Fewer
court users (firms) reported that the courts were able to enforce their decisions, affordable, quick,
honest, fair and impartial, in 2005 than in 2002. Court usage in Albania did not improve over the
period and remains significantly lower than in neighboring countries. Nevertheless, given the
achievements noted above, the LJR Project appears to have made a modest, initial contribution to
the ongoing, long-term process of Albanian legal and judicial reform.

        The Project's contribution to reducing corruption in Albania, which remains a key
challenge for the country, is also a key issue. The BEEPS found that firms citing corruption as a
specific problem for business showed a small reduction from 69 to 65 percent during 2002-05.
Corruption remains a critical problem in Albania and continues to be reported as significantly
higher than in neighboring countries where the average number of firms citing it as a problem is
38 percent. The Project set out to strengthen the capacity of key institutions as only one element
to improving the rule of law. Measures introduced under the Project which should lead to
decreased opportunities for corrupt practices in the judiciary over time include:           random
assignment of cases to judges by the case management system, standardization and monitoring of
enforcement practices, the publication of judicial decisions and other improvements to the
management of the judiciary. Other elements necessary to achieve the larger objective of reducing
systemic corruption, such as adequacy of budgets and government salaries were, notably, outside
of its scope of the Project. Nevertheless, the Project's limited impact on the judicial inspection
regime during implementation (see section 4.2 below) constituted an important shortfall below its
potential impact on stemming judicial corruption.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Improving Legal Education at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana (US$0.45 million)

        The outcome of this component is rated Unsatisfactory. Technical assistance was
provided to assist with the implementation of the FoL's Action Plan (developed with World Bank
assistance during project preparation) but with marginal results. The leadership of the FoL
changed just as the Project began, and the new leadership largely failed to carry out the Action
Plan, with the exception of the adoption of competitive blind-graded entrance examination for the
FoL and of a program to upgrade staff teaching skills.           There has been no institutional
reorganization. Project funding to expand the FoL premises was cancelled shortly after the
mid-term review due to unresolved land ownership issues, and inadequate commitment and
participation by the FoL management. This followed extensive discussions and communications
between the task team and the FoL and government officials.

        The competitive entrance exam, combined with a cap on enrollments, was meant to stem
the long standing practice of sale and purchase of admission to the FoL. It was implemented for
several years under the project until a cheating scandal broke in mid-2005.              Since then


                                                - 5 -

faculty-student ratios have returned to substandard levels due to increasing student numbers.

        A twinning program successfully completed a long-term faculty exchange among three
English and Albanian law professors, short-term training for approximately 80 percent of the
other faculty members, international guest lectures in Tirana, and computer research training.
These activities have created links to international faculty counterparts, and increased willingness
from teachers and students to use modern teaching methods.             Opportunities for scholarly
publication have improved through publication of the Journal of the FoL. However, there are few
resources for professors to develop new teaching materials or methods, and the FoL dropped its
Internet connections. In addition, new faculty hires are generally less experienced and not highly
qualified, in part due to low salaries (despite a strike in 2004 which resulted in a general pay
raise).

        The expansion of the FoL's physical premises did not take place due to an unresolved
dispute over ownership of the land to be used for this purpose. The land dispute arose soon after
the Project's inception. Legal analyses were made on behalf of the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and
State Advocate's Office as well as the Project, resulting in differing conclusions about its validity
of certain claims. Despite a plan to expropriate the land in order to clear title, court proceedings
were never initiated by either the state or the private claimants. The failure to resolve this matter
prevented disbursement of any funds for the extension of the FoL premises.

        In two surveys of employers of law graduates conducted in 2003 and 2005, the overall
level of satisfaction with the quality of law graduates among employers remained essentially
unchanged at about 70 percent satisfied and 28 percent somewhat satisfied.            These figures
contrast sharply with the generally negative anecdotal comments from the legal community and
students about the quality of teaching at the FoL. Employers reported more strongly in 2005 than
in 2003 that graduates were capable of doing independent work, but the percentage of those
reporting that they had fired lawyers because of incompetence also increased from 2003 to
2005--and 60 percent of those stated it was due to the poor quality of the FoL, including in
respect of its teaching staff and the curriculum.

2. Strengthening the Justice System (US$ 4.62 million)

The results of this component were mixed, and the component as a whole is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

a) Improving Court and Case Management

        The objective of this subcomponent was to provide full access to modernized court and
case management techniques and processes in the courts of Albania.               The outcome was
Unsatisfactory.

        The ambitious objective of countrywide implementation of court and case management
reforms and new systems was not achieved. However, a solid base has been laid for the eventual
achievement of this goal, through the development of software for a computerized Civil Case



                                                 - 6 -

Management and Information System (CCMIS) and preparatory work for its planned future
expansion to criminal cases.

        The original project plan was to implement changes in management processes and
introduce a new computerized system in three pilot courts: the Supreme Court, Durrës Court of
Appeal and Tirana District Court.        Shortly after the Project launch, consensus was reached
between the World Bank and the Government that the Tirana District Court was too large and
potentially problematic, to serve as a meaningful pilot. The Durres District Court was substituted
as a pilot. Following implementation, evaluation and adjustment of the pilot systems, the CCMIS
was intended to be rolled out to all remaining courts in Albania.      Project funds were used to
purchase and install hardware for workstations and local area networks in three pilot courts, and
to train pilot court personnel in the use of CCMIS. However, CCMIS is now operational only in
the Supreme Court, while the two other pilot courts (Durrës Court of Appeal and Durrës District
Court) both continue to use the long-standing manual system. Only the Supreme Court has hired
IT specialists and allocated operating funds for continuing support, maintenance and expansion of
CCMIS. Given the lack of implementation in the pilot courts and the failure of the MoJ and
Supreme Court to appoint IT specialists for the courts, the rollout was abandoned and the
remaining credit allocated for this component was eventually cancelled after the close of the
Project in mid 2005.

        Currently, the EC is preparing to renew and finance the rollout of the CCMIS. Following
the change of government in mid 2005, a new MoJ administration has worked with the Supreme
Court to begin the process of hiring the necessary IT administrators for other courts.     Six new
positions have already been approved by the MoJ and budget for salaries has been reallocated
from other areas. Recruitment is expected to begin after the positions and salary levels have been
approved by the Department of Public Administration.

        During the Project, the Tirana District Court began implementation of a different
computerized case-tracking system developed with funding from other donors. Neither the Bank
nor the Government, despite extensive consultations were able to convince the donor, the
contractor or the Court management to coordinate these simultaneous development efforts. This
other system, which is now viewed as a precursor to the CCMIS, is currently operating in the
Tirana District Court and several others, but requires annual funding for software license fees
(because the source code is not owned by the Government of Albania). System maintenance
continues to be provided by the donors.        Moreover, the existence of different systems has
complicated the unification of civil case management under CCMIS throughout the Albanian
courts.

b) Improving the Capacity of the Magistrates' School for Judicial Service Training

        The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. The key intended outputs were
to expand the course offerings and continuing judicial education to judges with less than five years
of experience at the Magistrates' School and to improve the School's legal research facilities.

        The intended outputs and outcomes were achieved and surpassed.                The external



                                                - 7 -

consultants financed by the project collaborated successfully with the School's faculty and staff:
(a) to develop and publish four course textbooks in new subjects; (b) to conduct courses using the
new books; and (c) to train the Director and six permanent faculty members as well as
approximately fifteen part-time teachers in modern adult instruction methodologies. Working
with Project consultants as well as consultants and teachers provided by other donors, the
Magistrates' School redesigned its teaching curriculum for basic judicial training and provided
many continuing education seminars for sitting judges--now offered to all judges, not only those
with less than five years experience. In cooperation with a Project-funded consultant, the School
also organized and conducted court administration training and published a manual on court
administration for all courts in Albania.       Credit proceeds financed the refurbishment of the
premises and appropriate furnishings and equipment, including a computer lab and computers
with Internet access, for the Magistrates' School's operations. The computer lab has improved
the School's legal research facilities; all students are required to carry out online research.

        During Project implementation, the governing legislation for the Magistrates' School was
amended to provide more financial stability, and actions on the part of the Director have
successfully preserved the School's independence.              The Director has developed many
international contacts and has recently been invited to act as an international advisor to a similar
school being formed in Macedonia.

c) Improving the Enforcement of Judicial Decisions in Civil Cases

       The objective of this subcomponent was to improve the capacity of the Execution Office
within MoJ so as to increase the percentage of judicial decisions enforced in civil cases. The
outcome has been Moderately Unsatisfactory.

       Early in 2003, the project-financed consultant developed a detailed and comprehensive
action plan for the reorganization of the structure and functioning of the entire enforcement
service. Basic training in computing skills was provided to the Head Office staff. Shortly after,
however, a new Justice Minister and General Director were appointed and chose to prioritize
widespread staff replacements rather than implementation of the long-term, comprehensive
organizational reform. The new enforcement officers are reportedly better qualified, but the high
turnover resulted in loss of training provided to the earlier staff. Project recommendations were
only implemented in two pilot offices.

       The Project consultants also designed database systems for case registry, financial
management and equipment inventory and carried out related computer training. After some
prompting by World Bank staff, the systems were piloted in the Tirana and Durrës regional
offices. Data entry was continuing at the close of the Project to allow operations in the Tirana
local office. Again after some persuasion by the World Bank, the software was delivered to all
other regional offices in response, but it is not yet operational. However, for the short time, the
database systems have been operational in the Tirana and Durrës offices, they have shown clear
signs of improving productivity and management.

        After the approval of a plan for the distribution and use in line with workload needs, the



                                                  - 8 -

component also financed purchase of equipment a fleet of cars for the enforcement service, many
of whose officers were traveling on bicycles or public transportation to execute judgments. With
one exception, the vehicles were distributed as planned. (Following the close of the Project, the
one vehicle that remained in use by the former Justice Minister when he returned to Parliament
has been returned to the MoJ for use by the Execution Department.)

        The total number of civil cases resolved per year has increased steadily, albeit in part due
to the provision of public funds to pay judgments against state agencies. However, caseloads also
continue to increase and the large backlog of judgments to be enforced continues to grow.

        EURALIUS will provide a long term advisor to the Enforcement Office to continue some
of the Project-financed activities and recommendation. More recently, there has been renewed
political attention on judgment enforcement, and the present Minister of Justice has set a very
ambitious goal of clearing the backlog within the next few years.

d) Strengthening Judicial Inspection

       The original objective of this subcomponent was to ensure that the inspection of justice
system activities would be carried out more effectively and transparently. However, this was later
broadened to support institutional capacity building for the newly-empowered High Council of
Justice (HCJ) following key legislative changes. The outcome of this subcomponent is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

        Delays in enacting the new governing law for the HCJ and associated uncertainties
delayed the start of activities for this subcomponent by more than a year.             Then in 2002,
Parliament enacted the law that clarified the HCJ's responsibilities beyond only judicial inspection
and provided for a full-time Vice Chairman and administrative staff. Because of this development,
Project assistance was broadened in late 2002 to include technical assistance concerning the High
Council's overall organization and administration, in addition to original support for improving
judicial inspection. Thereafter, Project-funded technical assistance, study tours for HCJ members,
and the completion and furnishing of separate office premises have ensured increased operational
capacity, credibility and visibility for the HCJ and the execution of its judicial inspection function.


        Despite continuing ambiguity regarding the legal scope and authority of Albania's dual
inspection bodies, by the end of the Project implementation, the current Vice-Chairman of the
HCJ had reached working agreements with the MoJ Judicial Inspectorate and several joint
inspections had been carried out. The HCJ has also continued to utilize its website (www.kld.al)
and the Albanian media to increase public awareness of its own inspection role. The number of
complaints about the judiciary has increased from 391 in 2003 to 710 in 2005, although the rate of
increase is slowing from 37 percent in 2003-04 to 31 percent in 2004-05. However, the increase
may be as much a sign of this awareness as it is of increased dissatisfaction with the judiciary.
Inspectors were able to dismiss or close a greater percentage of these complaints in 2004, while
the numbers of disciplinary measures taken by the HCJ remained relatively constant. Out of the
710 complaints in 2005, the HCJ has taken 536 into consideration for further inspection.



                                                 - 9 -

Comparative statistics on disciplinary actions over the Project's lifetime are not possible because
there were only a handful of actions each year; thus fluctuations are not statistically significant.
Such low numbers are not out of line with judicial discipline bodies in other countries.

        Regarding general reforms, the HCJ adopted written internal operating regulations in
2003, although they have some room for improvement.            Towards the end of the Project,
consultants provided detailed recommendations to the HCJ on a number of key issues including: a
court rationalization plan covering staffing and budgets; draft legislative and regulatory
amendments to further reform the role of inspectors in evaluating judges; and advice on the
management of transfers and promotions for judges. These have provided a basis for the HCJ to
further improve its operations. More recently, consultants conducting a functional review of the
Ministry of Justice under the World Bank's Public Admnistrative Reform Project in Albania have
reported that the HCJ has already implemented many of the recommendations required to put in
place a comprehensive professional assessment system for judges and to refocus its judicial
inspection services. Assistance to continue these reforms can be provided under a planned EC
twinning program with the HCJ.

3. Providing ADR Mechanisms for Commercial Disputes (US$1.13 million)

        The objective of this component was to have the commercial community make use of
independent mediation and arbitration for commercial disputes.          The outcome is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory .

        This component aimed not only at creating a new private, non-profit institution in the
Albanian justice system, but also at achieving a certain level of business performance for this
institution. The creation of the MEDART Arbitration and Mediation Center has been achieved in
a very professional manner and the efforts of its Board and Director have been creative and
thorough; at the close of the project the business community was beginning to make use of the
Center.

        The MEDART Center was established in June 2003, with technical assistance financed
from credit proceeds. It has a governing Board and Director, and 13 mediators and arbitrators
have been trained.     The Center adopted a business plan and operating procedures, but the
planning process was hampered by the lack of reliable court statistics about commercial cases.
Current legislation, including a new Mediation Law proposed by MEDART, provides the legal
basis for conducting private arbitration and mediation. The Center has recently drafted and
presented to Parliament some amendments to the Arbitration Law.

        The Center, with technical assistance financed from credit proceeds, carried out a public
awareness campaign through media events and conferences; and the individual Board members,
Director and staff maintain continued contact with courts, businesses, bar association, state and
local governments and NGOs to promote the Center's services. Significant efforts to encourage
the use of arbitration/mediation clauses in commercial contracts, especially in public contracts,
have resulted in clauses added to a large number of contracts. These are expected to provide
cases for the Center in the future. The Center also undertook a pilot referral process with the



                                               - 10 -

Tirana District Court. This had only mixed results due to continued uncertainty and ignorance
about arbitration and mediation among both judges, lawyers and the business community. To
help combat these realities, the Magistrates' School conducted arbitration and mediation training
courses for judges.

        Activity has been slow, but there are signs that efforts are producing results. Three
fee-paid arbitration cases were completed by the Center as of January 2006. Of these, one was
decided by an arbitrator, confirmed by judgment of the court, and the arbitral award was not
appealed by the losing party, thus indicating an acceptance of the arbitration process. This case
has been well publicized and sets an important precedent for enforcement of the arbitration law
and for the Center's future success. Ten new case inquiries were received in September 2005,
apparently the result of the Center's own publicity, but these have not yet resulted in fee cases.

4. Disseminating Legal Information (US$ 0.62 million)

        The objective of this component was to improve access by government officials, judges,
parliamentarians, legal professionals, the business community, the Magistrates' School, the
University of Tirana's Faculty of Law, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive and
up-to-date legal information. The outcome is rated as Satisfactory.

        Within this component, two activities were initially undertaken: (i) the development of a
computerized, internet-accessible database for decisions of the Supreme Court (called JUDIS);
and (ii) the development of a similar database for Albanian legislation (called CODIS). Both aims
were achieved in large measure, though some data entry remains before the Supreme Court
database comes online. Two additional activities: (iii) establishment of a public information office
within the Ministry of Justice; and (iv) computerization of the issuance of criminal record
certificates were undertaken in 2004-2005 by redirecting Project savings.

        Credit proceeds funded new database software, hardware, staff training and data entry for
both CODIS and JUDIS. The CODIS system is fully operational. Judicial decisions from 1999
to 2005 are currently available as text documents on the JUDIS website, but without any search
capability. Nevertheless, these systems represent a significant improvement in the access to legal
information in Albania, as they are potentially more widespread and comprehensive, cheaper and
more practical for users and more quickly updated than any paper publications.             However,
budgeting for maintenance and operations do present current problems. For example, some paper
publications may be cut to pay for the CODIS system, and the judicial budget does not yet include
funding for internet access for all courts.   No data are available yet for CODIS usage, as the
necessary software for tracking "hits" on the website remains to be purchased. ICR preparation
revealed gaps in the level of awareness in the legal system about the website, which the SPC has
begun to address by holding a public meeting showcasing the system. Bank staff in the Tirana
office already make extensive use of CODIS in order to track and research Albanian legislation.

        The third activity within this component was the creation of a public information center
for the MoJ. A newly refurbished public area with automated queue equipment was created, and
local technical assistance was provided to develop and implement a comprehensive information



                                               - 11 -

strategy for the Ministry. Unfortunately, the MoJ failed to hire the new staff needed in time, so
the planned training and implementation could not be completed before Project closing.

        The Project also funded the creation of a computerized database and software for issuance
of criminal records certificates, as well as the necessary computer equipment and training of
existing staff. This system is fully operational and has drastically reduced opportunities for
corruption and the time required to issue such certificates. Most of the approximately 1000 daily
requests for certificates are now processed by the next day.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        The institutional development impact of the Project is rated as Modest. As noted above,
the Project has had a positive, albeit in some cases very limited, impact on most of the institutions
it set out to strengthen -- the Magistrates School, State Publication Center, the Enforcement
Office, the High Council of Justice and a few courts., In addition, a new institution, MEDART,
was created under the project. The immediate impact has also been modest in most cases, and
negligible in some. However, the impact on the overall judicial system should deepen over time,
in particular, through the continued education of judges and magistrates, the publication of
decisions and laws, improved management of the judiciary, courts and case loads, more extensive
use of mediation and arbitration, and stronger enforcement of decisions. As such, the overall
institutional development impact of the project is rated as Modest.

        Monitoring and evaluation. Although the Project design provided for instruments to
monitor outcomes, the pressure and delays in completing activities meant that many of these were
unrealized. For example, the first court users' survey at the beginning of the project gathered data
more relevant to court administration and case management than to judicial inspection, which it
was originally intended to measure. A second survey was not done.         Enforcement statistics are
still compiled manually and inconsistently from office to office, with little or no oversight of their
accuracy, making progress difficult to judge. Other planned measurements were either anecdotal
or depended on data from the implementing agencies themselves, but these data were not
complete or reliable due to the deficiencies in these institutions.         This was somewhat a
chicken-and-egg problem, because some of the assistance provided was geared towards
improving the agencies' abilities to gather such statistics (such as CCMIS for the courts,
computerized case registries for enforcement offices, and computer equipment and
procedural/administrative recommendations for improved data handling by the HCJ). The attempt
to provide for measurement tools was a natural and appropriate response to the existing
weaknesses observed in the counterpart agencies. In theory, such tools could have motivated the
beneficiaries to reach the Project's targeted objectives. However, as actual events unfolded,
providing these tools proved to be beyond the capacities of the implementing agencies and was
seen mainly as a distraction from the challenging component implementation with which they were
charged.



                                                - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Very few factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies influenced Project
outcomes. By the time implementation began, public order had been generally restored after the
civil unrest and refugee crisis of 1997-1999, but these undoubtedly had lasting, though indirect
and diffuse, effects. The third-party claim to ownership of the FoL building site arose apparently
independently of both the government and the FoL; however, the subsequent failure to resolve the
dispute or to find any alternative solutions rested within the Government's control. With respect
to the MEDART Center, its difficulty in translating theory into practice is largely attributable to a
prevailing culture of uncertainty within the legal, judicial and business communities about the
efficacy of mediation and arbitration (although the reluctance of the Tirana District Court to refer
commercial cases for mediation at least may be considered to be within implementing agency
control). Finally, widespread computer illiteracy and the general lack of internet access in many
parts of Albania affected all project components that involved computerization.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        Shifting policy commitment and leadership. Government support and cooperation based
on expressed priorities and goals during the design and preparation phase of the project turned
out to be weaker than anticipated as implementation progressed. Frequent changes in the post of
Minister of Justice (six different Ministers during five years of implementation) significantly
affected commitment to the development objectives, ability of the PIU to keep implementation
moving forward, and continuity of priority and vision for the progress of reforms.            Some
Ministers and institutional leaders employed a more traditional, highly-centralized management
style that delayed implementation. Others lacked experience with foreign-financed projects and
either did not provide the necessary support nor attention to project implementation or diverted
attention away from implementation by requesting frequent changes in project priorities without
providing sufficient justification.

        Political, legislative and budgetary actions. Continuing changes in governing legislation
for the implementing institutions, while introducing needed improvements, also affected reform
progress because of the uncertainty they caused. This was a factor for the HCJ, the judicial
inspection service and the Magistrates School, as described above. Furthermore, differing views
between the judicial and executive branches about the appropriate extent of judicial accountability
and independence had a negative impact on the ability of the justice sector institutions
(particularly the HCJ, MoJ and courts) to implement reforms.

        The policies of the Ministry of Education were a factor in the outcomes for the FoL. The
Ministry regulations encouraged high numbers of admissions by making this a criteria for
budgetary independence; it also adopted policies late in the Project period tending towards
providing an education for everyone who desired it, rather than only those who met high
admissions testing standards or numbers based on societal need, and allowed the creation of
private, competing law schools (which had both positive and negative effects). Furthermore,
greater Ministry control of the admissions process for the FoL might have avoided the cheating
scandal in 2005 (see below, section 5.3). On the positive side, the Bologna Charter of standards



                                                     - 13 -

for educational institutions was adopted, providing benchmarks against which to measure the
performance of the FoL. Unfortunately, the performance of the FoL remained substandard.

       State budget constraints affected all project components except the private MEDART
Center, particularly with respect to providing adequate funds and authority for ongoing
maintenance and support staff, as well as sufficient numbers of law faculty and judicial inspectors.
Despite modest increases in university faculty and judicial salaries, overall salaries for civil
servants and other government employees remained quite low, thereby affecting the ability to
recruit and retain qualified personnel. While Parliamentary approval of budgets is certainly a
factor in this situation, it appears that lack of budget capacity, exemplified by poor and late
budgetary planning by implementing agencies, contributed as well. With respect to MEDART,
the government's willingness to borrow to finance the creation of a private actor in the judicial
system is notable.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PIU. Project implementation suffered initially due to staff turnover and a steep learning curve
with respect to both project management and Bank procedures. The first PIU Director left after
the first year to become Chancellor of the Supreme Court. Two procurement specialists left
during the first and third years of the Project, and the legal coordinator position changed once as
well. The second PIU Director, a former judge, served throughout the remainder of the Project.
Generally, Project activities in which the PIU hired outside technical support (such as IT issues)
were less affected by the learning curve problem.

        Inherent obstacles to reform.            The organizational and human capacity of some
implementing agencies turned out to be more limited, more politicized and more resistant to
improvement than was originally anticipated. Thus, some implementing agencies did not always
take full advantage of the technical assistance built into the Project design to address these
weaknesses. This was particularly true for the MoJ Enforcement and Information Offices and for
the FoL, and to a lesser extent for the courts and HCJ. Each is discussed in turn below.

        The legal education component was delayed significantly and nearly cancelled altogether
due to repeated breaches by the FoL of its commitments regarding steps to reduce admissions
numbers and make them fair and transparent. Most of the reforms implemented by the FoL have
been reversed or modified since the completion of project activities in this component in 2004.
An admissions exam cheating scandal in October 2005, as well as the resumption of fee-paid
study programs and seriously worsened student-teacher ratios, indicates continued institutional
weakness and lack of genuine commitment to reform. Similar failures to comply with agreed
procedures for selection of participants in the twinning activities caused delays, added expense
and limited results of the Project interventions.

        A number of internal weaknesses plagued the MoJ's Enforcement Service, over and above
the legislative, political and budgetary problems mentioned above. These included (a) changes of
Director General and local office directors, which created fluctuating commitment to reform and a
lack of continuity; (b) extremely high staff turnover which, although perhaps warranted due to the
dire need to improve staff quality, caused loss of trained personnel and low motivation to learn or
perform; (c) essentially non-existent computer literacy skills at all levels; and (d) a centralized


                                                    - 14 -

structure, which required almost all decisions to be channeled through the Minister. To make
matters worse, in 2005 shortly before the close of the project, the MoJ relocated several
enforcement offices, including Durrës, away from their previous locations in the courthouse
buildings.   The new Durrës premises (visited during the Project Completion Mission) were
completely inadequate to accommodate enforcement service personnel, much less the new
computer equipment.

        Factors that prevented implementation of CCMIS in the Durrës pilot courts also stemmed
from inherent institutional weaknesses: (a) the lack of permanent Chief Judges in those courts for
more than two years; (b) limited computer experience of the staff; (c) lack of IT System
Administrators to provide user support or hardware maintenance; and (d) limited budget for
purchasing and operating back-up power generators.

        Implementation delays also affected progress for the HCJ.         Initial suggestions for
improvements met with resistance and weak implementation. However, at the time of project
closing, the HCJ was beginning to undertake the recommended institutional reforms such as
implementing a comprehensive judicial evaluation system and restructuring its own inspection
service (see section 4.2.2(d) above). The HCJ actions also affected the pilot implementation of
the CCMIS component through the delays in appointing permanent Chief Judges in the Durrës
courts.

        Where leadership existed that was receptive to institutional reform and modernization,
internal weaknesses of organizational structure and human capacity were tackled through Project
assistance. This was the case with the Magistrates' School and MEDART Center as well as the
Supreme Court and the criminal records office. Although the consultants met initial resistance,
technical difficulties and personnel gaps in the SPC, these problems were gradually remedied, as
reflected in the ultimate outcomes with the implementation of CODIS.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project disbursements were lower than anticipated, primarily because of the failure to implement
the full roll-out of CCMIS. Funds not used for civil works at the FoL were redirected to other
appropriate activities, as mentioned above. Total disbursements were SDR 5.87 million (US$
8.39 million) compared to an expected total financing of SDR 6.6 million (US$9.06 million). The
cancellation of the SDR 0.73 million (US$.99 million at SDR/USD exchange rate at the time
approval or US$1.1 million at the time of cancellation) intended for the CCMIS rollout was
reasonable, however, in light of the absence of certain prerequisites, including IT systems
administrators, and difficulties with implementation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the Project outcomes is rated as Moderately Likely based on the
assessment below of the sustainability of individual components and subcomponents.             Of
immediate concern, however, is a thirty percent reduction in the judiciary budget for 2006,
although increasing donor assistance from donors is expected to brigde much of the short term
gaps and sustain reform implementation.



                                               - 15 -

        Although some outputs of the Legal Education component were achieved, their effect on
the operations of the FoL is doubtful and it is Unlikely that any long-lasting changes have
occurred as a result. No significant donor activity is planned for the FoL in the near future.

        The CCMIS (and planned expansion to criminal case management) has a good chance for
success in the future, mainly due to the EC agreement to continue the work of the Project. The
Commission intends to carry out refurbishment of a number of courthouses, and has allocated 
500,000 to install CCMIS and train staff in at least eleven courts across Albania. Hardware
specifications and rollout TORs prepared under the Project are being used by the EC effort.
Hiring a minimum of six IT specialists for the courts is a precondition for this assistance. As
noted above in Section 4.2, the positions and budget have been approved by MoJ and the Judicial
Budget Office and are awaiting approval of the Department of Public Administration before
recruitment begins. The Chief Justice has been a strong advocate for the system and the MoJ has
recorded clear demand among the chairmen of courts.         The overall sustainability is, therefore,
rated Likely.

        The Magistrates' School is Highly Likely to sustain its operations and increase the
quality of its activities in the future. The School has reduced its dependence on both donor
funding and expertise by developing a cadre of trained full- and part-time Albanian instructors,
and by transferring some expenses to the Judicial Budget while covering most of the rest from the
state budget. The School continues to receive support and assistance from other donors, most
significantly the Council of Europe's program funded by the EC.

        The continuing institutional and operational difficulties experienced by the Enforcement
Office make the prospects of sustained improvement somewhat uncertain.               However, the
progress to date in implementing the recommended procedural and automation changes in the
pilot offices has demonstrated what is possible and a EURALIUS advisor will work with the
Enforcement Office to continue some of the project-financed activities and recommendations.
Demand for further reform is evident from the high level political attention that the new
government has placed on improving the enforcement of civil judgments.                  The overall
sustainability rating for this component is Moderately Likely.

        The sustainability of the HCJ outcomes are rated Moderately Likely. The Vice Chairman
of the HCJ, who heads its administrative staff, reacted positively to the Project consultants'
recommendations for organizational and operational improvements and has taken steps to
implement them. A EC-funded twinning program will also be available to assist with this effort.
In the near term, however, recent legislative changes requiring HCJ members to resign their
judicial or other positions will likely preoccupy attention.

          The eventual success of the MEDART Center now depends on continued donor
support for its promotional efforts and growth in the demand for its services. The small increase
in requests for both fee-based arbitration and mediation at the end of the Project provide a base
upon which the Center can build. Donor support has been promised by several sources arranged
by the Center with the Project consultant's assistance, so this component is Moderately Likely to



                                                - 16 -

experience continued development.

         The new JUDIS, CODIS and criminal records certificate systems are Likely to be
continued and improve, although the judicial budget cuts for 2006 are already presenting
important challenges. Both the Supreme Court and SPC have the appropriate staff and at least
the minimum budgets needed to maintain the systems. Other donor efforts are addressing the low
level of internet penetration in the country. There are plans to fully decentralize the criminal
records certificate service and move the Tirana service back to the MoJ building, but this will
occur only if and when donor funding is found for the decentralization costs. Prospects for the
Public Information Office in the MoJ seem weaker. There is, as yet, has no clear plan for this
facility.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         In order to ensure the transition to normal operations, the GoA must address the factors
described above, especially adequate budget and personnel allocations for continued operation,
maintenance and support, as well as institutional governance and political prioritization of the
legal and judicial sector. Continuing donor involvement will be essential to complete the legal and
judicial reform agenda. In particular, ongoing support is needed for MEDART. Technical
assistance is being provided by the EURALIUS project of the EU Commission in court and case
management, publication of judicial decisions, judgment enforcement, the judicial budget and
administration.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank's lending performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The project was
prepared over a relatively long period (1997-2000) during which Albania was slowly emerging
from civil strife. This allowed for extensive analytical work and assessment studies that made an
important contribution to the World Bank's state of knowledge about Albania's legal and justice
sector and were instrumental in determining the areas for assistance and alignment with
Government priorities. The decision to divide the original project into separate Legal and Judicial
Project and Public Administrative Reform Project was appropriate. Extensive consultations were
held with, and among donors involved in the area at the time, including the Council of Europe
regarding the Faculty of Law, the EU regarding the Magistrates' School, DANIDA regarding
judicial inspection, and the OESC, ABA-CEELI and the Soros Foundation on more general
matters.

         In the end, however, the goals and objectives of the Project, although owned by senior
Government officials, may have been too ambitious for Albania at that time.               Given the
implementing institutions' "lack [of] even the most rudimentary skills to design and implement
reform initiatives" as noted in the PAD, World Bank staff were heavily involved in the actual
preparation, over and above identification and appraisal, of the Project. This may have appeared
necessary to accelerate project preparation, but the limited capacity of the implementing agencies
themselves to take responsibility for preparation might have signaled that certain aspects of the
Project were too ambitious. This limited involvement at the agency level did eventually contribute
to the subsequent problems and delays in carrying forward some of the Project activities and


                                                  - 17 -

should have been better assessed and addressed during preparation.

        It should be noted that the World Bank team did not develop or identify adequate
performance indicators at the outset of the project ­ although this may have been consistent with
the standards at that time ­ and the filing of documentation during the lending stage should have
been more systematic.

7.2 Supervision:
        Project supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.      Project supervision missions,
which provided guidance to the PIU and implementing agencies, facilitated communication and
resolution of inter-agency obstacles, were carried out approximately twice per year. A Mid Term
Review was held in May-June 2003. At the outset of the project, the long lead times before
disbursement and consulting activities could begin caused some initial frustration and
disappointment among Albanian beneficiaries. Some problems of "donor shopping" arose, when
beneficiary institutions continued to seek similar assistance from donors who could act faster,
more flexibly and without repayment requirements, but perhaps in a more piecemeal and less
effective manner. Continued World Bank involvement in donor coordination groups focusing on
areas of several Project components whose regular meetings helped resolve most of these issues,
strengthen GoA institutional capacities and improved outcomes for all donors. Unfortunately,
despite these efforts some conflicting activity continued with respect to the CCMIS.

        The Project team was able to identify problems encountered by the PIU as they arose, and
to assist in resolving them, in part by providing additional technical assistance to the PIU. Some
ad hoc consultation with other World Bank-financed projects having an impact on LJR created
important positive synergies, such as increased judicial and court administrative salaries,
infrastructure improvements to government buildings, and education system reforms.

        The World Bank task team should have paid greater attention in reviewing the
appropriateness of some of the decorative items (such as pictures and large planters) procured
from credit proceeds which were included by the Borrower under the package of items required
for refurbishment of Public Information Office in the Ministry of Justice. Even though the items
procured followed proper International Competitive Bidding procedures, if these items were
excluded the Borrower could have used the same funds for some more useful items.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
        Borrower preparation performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The GoA's focus on the
legal and judicial sector was commendable; its reform efforts prior to Project approval had been
significant and sustained, and the Project design built upon these. However, the GoA may have
expressed more commitment and enthusiasm for reform at the senior level than it could actually
deliver at the level of the implementing and beneficiary agencies.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
        Implementation performance on the Government's part was Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                                - 18 -

The Government's shifting policy commitment and leadership of the judicial reform agenda, as
well as political, budgetary and legislative actions affected Project outcomes significantly, as
described in section 5.2. It is notable that the Project Coordinating Council (PCC) did not meet
for most of the Project implementation period, possibly, a symptom of the tensions between the
executive and judicial branches of government mentioned elsewhere in this report. The shortage
of Coordinating Council meetings had less of an impact on Project implementationm, per se, than
the numerous changes in leadership of the Ministry of Justice.

         Performance was mixed from component to component and across the various responsible
institutions as described in section 5.3, but genuine incremental progress was achieved in what
was always acknowledged to be a long-term reform process. This progress must also be assessed
in light of the Project's ambitious goals and the recognition in the PAD not only that "progress in
building civic institutions is fraught with difficulties", but also that "uncertainty will likely
be...[experienced] in implementing other aspects of the Government's institutional reform
strategy...."

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The performance of the implementing agency (PIU) is rated Moderately Satisfactory,
based on the factors mentioned in section 5.3. Despite some initial problems and continuing staff
turnover (mentioned above), the PIU was a positive influence in coordinating and shepherding
Project activities among the several implementing agencies. The performance of the second
Director as well as that of the Financial Management Specialist was always evaluated as excellent,
and all of the Bank's audits revealed only minor issues. An independent procurement review,
directed by the ECA Regional Procurement Adviser of the Bank, found the financial management
and procurement processes to be generally satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

·        The Bank's role in promoting judicial independence is a delicate one given its political
ramifications. Throughout the World Bank's Europe and Central Asia region, the EU's mandate
in addressing overarching political and constitutional issues, provides an opening for the World
Bank to engage at the implementation level. This project has shown that there are a variety of
basic institution building interventions that can support legal and judicial development. However,
close attention needs to be paid to how these interventions impact and depend on the balance of
power between the executive and the judiciary. As a result, frequent and close coordination is
required between the Bank's implementation level activities and the EU's broader governance and
political discussions.

·        Close coordination among donors remains crucial, given the many institutions
involved in legal and judicial reform in Eastern Europea. Judicial development in many
transition countries requires a comprehensive, multi-pronged, multi-level approached to cover
legislative changes, institutional development, systems and process modernization, capacity
building and training, public awareness, among other things. This provides for a plethora of


                                                 - 19 -

development partners and reinforces the need for close donor coordination, ideally led by the
government.

·        Active involvement of other donors during preparation and launch stages can help to
fill gaps while the often slower implementation process of a World Bank-supported project
gets underway. Not only would this facilitate the need to show faster results for some donors, it
would integrate them into the Bank's more paced model that strives to generate lasting
institutional change through the borrower implementation experience. The project successfully
used this strategy with one bilateral which provided baseline studies and training that supported
later Bank-funded activities. Duplication surrounding the CCMIS might have been avoided if
there had been greater integration of donor efforts. Naturally, the willingness of other donors to
follow this approach is outside the World Bank's control. On the other hand, full coordination in
turn raises risk that delays on the part of partners could in turn slow down project
implementation.

·        Ensuring commitment and ownership (and adequately assessing capacity levels) of the
beneficiary institutions is one way to mitigate the effect of changes in the political leadership
during project implementation. Although the World Bank adequately assessed commitment
among high level officials at the outset, more effort should have been taken to assess ownership
and managerial capacity at the agency levels and to address any weaknesses. Strong
commitment, with appropriate support, at the agency level may have ameliorated the impact of
the numerous changes in the Minister of Justice and other senior officials. Fortunately, the project
gained momentum and continuity under a stable PIU staff with a very highly respected PIU
Director and stable staff (after the first year). Other measures such as direct employment of PIU
staff by the implementing agency, project-length contracts for PIU and/or key implementing
agency actors, or contingencies or incentives for implementing agencies to reduce turnover in key
positions, might be useful in this regard. In addition, where components will require
commitments of resources, say for operations and maintenance, or specialized staffing such as IT
personnel, consideration should be given to including these as covenants or conditions of
disbursement for related components.

·        Because of the weak capacity, it may have been appropriate to start off with a much
simpler (modular) court and case management systems. Both the introduction of a
sophisticated CCMIS and its full rollout to all the courts was an overly ambitious objective for
this project in this country. A much less ambitious goal of providing basic information on the
functioning of the judicial system, to which more sophisticated functionality could be added later,
would have been an important achievement in itself. Indeed, one peer reviewer commented
during preparation that experience has shown this hurdle (of providing basic information) to be a
critical one in judicial system development.

·        Introduction of new information technology in weak institutions is more likely to
expose underlying organizational problems rather than solve them. Leadership should be made
aware that reform is the real goal, not computerization, and that information technology is not the
only tool that can be used to achieve it. At the same time, implementation of modernization
programs requires special consideration of, and measures to address, the underlying conditions



                                                  - 20 -

such as weak computer literacy, low internet penetration and inadequate financial resources.
Available IT staff and budget for support, maintenance, and training and retraining in the event of
high turnover, should be a precondition for equipment purchases.

·        Long-standing institutions may need more time and additional support for undergoing
change than newly established ones. In general, the institutions involved in the project that were
being built by new leadership and personnel (like the Magistrates' School, the MEDART Center
and the SPC) were able to absorb the process of change somewhat faster than long-standing
institutions (like the courts, HCJ, MoJ or FoL) which suffered from ingrained political, managerial
and institutional weaknesses.

·        Monitoring and evaluation is an element of institutional development in its own right,
rather than as an activity that is merely supplementary to project implementation. It is now
recognized that an important early step in judicial system development is understanding (and then
making transparent) the flow of work, including bottlenecks and breakdowns, and the nature of
the interface with, and needs of, court users. As such, a more sustained and earlier focus on
developing indicators and systematic and routine measurement systems is crucial for sustaining
long term judicial reform efforts. It may be useful in the future to specifically identify which
implementing agency will be responsible for supporting, measuring and monitoring efforts
throughout all beneficiary agencies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                        Republic of Albania
                                        Ministry of Justice
                            General Department of Judicial Affairs
                                Judicial Organization Department

Prot. No. 4895/1

Tirana, 06/30/2006


Re: Appraisal, comments and remarks on the Draft Legal and Judicial Reform WB
                                     Project Progress Report

To: Mr. Nadir Mohammed
Country Manager
The World Bank Office
Tirana

Dear Mr. Mohammed,


                                                - 21 -

I would like to use this opportunity to express my regards and most sincere
appreciation for the several years of cooperation of the World Bank with the
Ministry of Justice, which has translated into tangible and commendable
achievement in the Albanian justice system.

In response to your request, attached we are forwarding our opinion, comments and
appraisal for the Draft Legal and Judicial Reform WB Project Progress Report.

Dear Mr. Mohammed,

Kindly allow me to once again convey to you our thanks and warmest regards, and
also trust in the future cooperation of our institution with the World Bank.

Thank you for your cooperation,

The Minister
Aldo Bumçi


Review of World Bank Project on Legal and Judicial Reform

       The general objective of the project for the legal and judicial reform, funded
by WB and implemented by the Ministry of Justice in the Republic of Albania, in
collaboration with the best and the most important actors in the field of justice in
Albania, like HJC, Supreme Court, Magistrate School, Law Faculty Tirana
University etc, was the support and implementation of priorities of the Albanian
government for the reforms in judicial and justice systems.

Specifically, the project aimed at the achievement of the mid-term and long-term
results as follows:

1.     Strengthening the judicial and legal education;
2.     A more effective judicial system, more transparent, less corrupted, and with
an easier access to it;
3.     Usage of alternative tools/instruments for the commercial conflict resolution
out of the judicial system, like intercession and arbitrage;
4.     Improvement of the access for the officialdoms, parliamentarians, lawyers,
magistrates, business community and for the public regarding accurate,


                                          - 22 -

credible/reliable and updated information in the legal framework.

In order to accomplish all these goals/results, the project was divided into specific
components and sub-components with a relative success, which were evaluated as
follows:

1.      Enhancement of the legal education at the Law Faculty in Tirana University

There are composite/mixed results of the Tirana Faculty Project: although it had
positive results it couldn't achieve all its objectives. The Project had a positive
impact on the improvement of the requirements for the admission of new students at
the Faculty of Law, twining program, which made possible the exchange visits
between English and Albanian Professors, qualification and training of the academic
staff, improvement of the teaching methodology, enrichment of the scientific records
of the Faculty Library with novel/fresh literature and also the publication of the
scientific magazine "Legal/ Juridical Studies" an output/production of the Law
Faculty.

   However, the results of the Project have been unsatisfactory in the
element/component of expansion and improvement of the infrastructure of this
Faculty. All this happened for the reason that the government failed in the conflict
resolution regarding the proprietorship of the building/construction plot (The Faculty
couldn't resolve this case by itself because it was under the responsibility
Educational Ministry to resolve the property concern).

2.      Strengthening Justice System

a.      Enhancement of Courts and Court Cases Management

   In order to achieve this goal, the project provisioned the establishment of a
computerized hardware system (IT System) as well as making functional the Court
Case Management Information System (CCMIS), which was accomplished only at
the Supreme Court, but not in the other two courts in Durres, as foreseen in the
project.

With regard the hardware component, this objective was completely accomplished,
while regarding CCMIS it resulted in a satisfactory achievement of the objectives,
because every data/information (files) submitted/presented at the Supreme Court is
recorded and managed electronically.


                                        - 23 -

b.     Improvement of the Magistrates School capacities in providing/delivering
Judicial Training Courses

    The component of the Magistrates School aimed at building its capacities and
improvement of the judicial training. At the end of the implementation of this
project, the beneficiary institution appreciates the fulfillment of the implemented
activities defined as very good and accurate. The successful accomplishment of the
project finds the school in a much consolidated vantage-point institutionally and
financially, with better opportunities and capabilities to provide more prepared
prosecutors and judges and at the same time to ensure their continuous qualification.


    More in details, the Magistrates School implemented successfully four training
courses regarding strategic planning in function of an adequate and regular
administration of the courts' activities.

    Moreover, an IT (informatics) Laboratory was established. It offers access to
internet and new conditions for collecting all the relevant information. Six teaching
texts on different subjects/topics were also prepared.

c.     Enhancement of the execution of court decisions on civil cases

    The application of this sub-component served the improvement of the
infrastructure of "Judicial Bailiff Service" and at the same time increased the
capacity of the office in charge of executing the judicial court rulings/decisions. The
implementation of the project gave a new impact not only to the Bailiff's Service,
but also to the whole bailiff activity in general.

    Although the project forecasted the establishment of an Intranet Network
between the two designated pilot offices and the General Bailiff Directorate, in
order that the Directorate could have access to the requested information from these
offices, this was not achieved and the programme is being used only to record/input
the data and not to request any information. Further more, the training of the judicial
bailiffs on using the database software did not take place at all, and the software
was distributed to all bailiff offices through CDs. As a result, although the software
is installed, it is inefficient due to the lack of proper qualification.

    Moreover, in the context of the actual situation of services in all aspects, the


                                             - 24 -

action plan of the sub-contracted company and the real financial potentials, we
consider that it would be more fruitful and more efficient for the service if the funds
available taking into consideration the nature of enforcement activities, needs for
satisfying the needs in 29 Bailiffs' offices, and the way of financing considering that
this was a credit and not a grand. With the fund of 14 "Volkswagen Touhareg" cars
purchased, which for the conditions of the Enforcement Services could be
considered luxury cars, would have been purchased simpler             vehicles, as such
fulfilling the needs of some others bailiff offices.

d.      Strengthening Judicial Inspection

The objective of this subcomponent was the improvement of the effectiveness and
transparency of the judicial activities inspection and later on it was extended with
technical support provided to the High Council of Justice. This contribution     was
very important for the building and enforcement of the institutional capacity and the
improvement of the inspective functions of the High Council of Justice.


Even though the achievements of this sub-component were evaluated/qualified as
Moderately Satisfactory, through out the implementation phase of the project the
High Justice Council has benefited from the technical assistance in general, study
tours for Council members and inspectors as well as the completion with equipment
for the offices/work facilities.

3.      Dissemination of Legal Information

   This component is included in four activities. (i) the establishment of a database
for the on-line publication of all the decisions of the Supreme Court, the so called
JUDIS; (ii) the establishment of a database for the Albanian legislation, the so called
CODIS; (iii) the establishment of a public information office at the Ministry of
Justice; as well as (iv) computerization of the judicial state office.

     i). JUDIS Programme

   This activity consists in the publication of the decisions of the Supreme Court in
different electronic formats. This programme is functional. Until June 2006, all court
decisions issued in 2003 and 2004have been recorded and the registration of 2005
court decisions is still in process, very close to its completion. These recorded
decisions are also available in a CD-Rom format, offering different search


                                          - 25 -

possibilities.

    ii). CODIS Programme

    The Project has achieved its objectives because the Centre for Official
Publications attained through this Project the delivery of the juridical norms and the
publication of the Official Journal (bulletin) in internet. As a result, every interested
subject can be consulted with the Albanian legislation for free at the address:
www.legjislacionishqiptar.gov.al or www.qpz.gov.al

The      Centre      with    the      assistance  of  World Bank   has    achieved    the
popularisation/multiplication of the program with all the legislation published in the
official journals since 1968. All the acts that should be published in the official
journals are recorded in the system and the output is their publication in internet
after the publication in the official journal.

    iii) Public Information Office at the Ministry of Justice

    The goal of this activity was the establishment of a modern public information
office. Even though, the project endowed the purchasing of the modern office
equipment, the functioning of this office failed because the respective and proper
staff members were not hired.

    iv) Computerization and provision of software for the judicial state office

The establishment of a database and software in function of issuing certificates of
the judicial state was financed under this project. Moreover, the procurement of
necessary IT equipment and staff training was financed under this project. Most of
approximately 1000 requests submitted each day for issuing certificates are
completed.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
Graduates of the University of the Tirana       Surveys of students, professors and "users" Surveys of employers (of law graduates) in
Faculty of Law are better educated to help in of the Faculty of Law graduates reveal                2003 and 2005 show overall satisfaction
ensuring the improved functioning of the legal improved quality of legal education and              unchanged at 70% satisfied and 28%
and judicial systems                            improved quality of FoL graduates.                  somewhat satisfied, but contrast with
                                                                                                    increasing share of those firing lawyers for
                                                                                                    incompetence and a large share stating that it
                                                                                                    was due to poor quality of FoL.
Courts make good use of more modern court The software is now operational in 3 pilot                Modern case management system in use at
and case management technigues and              courts and a plan has been developed for            Supreme Court and software in place in two
processes                                       expanding the software to cover criminal            other pilot courts. Plans and preparation for
                                                cases. Due to delays in hiring IT systems           rollout are complete, and required IT
                                                administrator and procurement issues, it is         administrators for court system are in the
                                                likely that the Project will not be able to rollout process of being hired.
                                                the case management software to 11
                                                additional courts.
Magristrates' School graduates render           The Magistrates' School continues to perform The Magistrates' School offers improved
judicial decisions of a higher standard         well                                                basic and continuing training for all judges,
                                                                                                    court administrators. Governing legislation
                                                                                                    for School has been amended to provide
                                                                                                    more independence and financial stability.
                                                                                                    The Director has been asked to advise on
                                                                                                    development of a school in Macedonia.
Percentage of judicial decisions in civil cases 4300 civil cases enforced in 2003 (vs 3100          Total number of civil cases enforced has
which are effectively enforced increases        cases enforced in 2000)                             increased, in part due to allocation of public
substantially                                                                                       budget to pay judgments against state
                                                                                                    agencies. Caseloads have increased (a sign
                                                                                                    of efficiency), but the backlog of judgments
                                                                                                    for enforcement continues to grow.
Inspection of justice system operations is      Albania's dual system of judicial inspection        Dual inspection system affirmed by
carried out more transparently and effectively remains but the MoJ and HCJ continue to              Constitutional Court. Strengthened HCJ
                                                cooperate and coordinate well.                      (legal framework, staffing, internal regulations
                                                                                                    and facilities) is currently implementing
                                                                                                    Project recommendations to improve judicial
                                                                                                    inspection & oversight.
Commercial community makes good use of          ADR Center has heard 4 arbitration cases            Ten new inquiries received in 2005 but have
independent center for mediation and            and 1 has been completed. 20 prospective            not yet resulted in fee cases. ADR has
arbitration of commercial disputes              mediation cases have been identified from           secured new donor support to continue
                                                Tirana District Court but not yet started. The outreach program, prepared amendments to
                                                first serieds of arbitrations are underway,         Arbitration Law, & is working with public
                                                business contracts are beginning to include         procurement to introduce A&M clauses in
                                                standard arbitration clauses and the Center         standard public contracts & bidding docs.
                                                continues to work with Tirana District Court
                                                to identify commercial cases that can be
                                                referred for mediation.
Improved access by government officials,        CODIS, legal database system created and            Supreme Court judicial decisions from
judges, parliamentarians, legal professionals, placed on Internet for public access.                1999-2005 and all Albanian legislation are
the business community, the Magistrate's        Database covers laws and legal acts from            now available online. Criminal records
School, the University of Tirana Faculty of     1998-2004.                                          certificates issuance process is also now
Law, and the public at large to more reliable,                                                      computerized and most of the 1000
comprehensive and up-to-date legal                                                                  certificates requested daily can now be
information.                                                                                        issued by the next day.
Evidence of higher satisfaction among the                                                           Percentage of firms surveyed in BEEPS:
population generally and the business                                                               noting (i) functioning of the judiciary as a
community operating in Albania in particular                                                        problem for doing business -- fell from 62%
(when compared to baseline) regarding the                                                           in 2002 to 56% in 2005; (ii) info on laws is
efficiency, transparency, effectiveness and                                                         easy to obtain -- rose from 60% in 2002 to
reliability of the legal and justice systems                                                        74% in 2005. However, among court users,
                                                                                                    the share of firms reporting that the courts
                                                                                                    are quick, honest, fair and able to enforce
                                                                                                    decisions -- fell over the same period.




                                                                    - 27 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Action program implemented, including      Competitive examinations are now used for        Competitive examinations suspended in 2005
new courses taught, teachers training,        entry into the Faculty of Law, correspondence following cheating scandal. Student teacher
including through twinning with a European    courses will end by 2007 and teaching            ratios are on the rise again. New faculty hires
law faculty, new teaching material availalbe, methodologies have been modernized.              are generally less experienced and qualified
new teaching methods applied, Law Faculty                                                      due in part to low salaries. Resources for
reorganized                                                                                    future devt of new teaching materials and
                                                                                               methods are increasingly limited. No new
                                                                                               donor support foreseen in the near future.
Existing premises of FoL rehabilitated and    This output was cancelled and reallocated at This output was cancelled and reallocated at
expanded.                                     mid term review.                                 mid term review.
2. [Court and case management]                Implementation in one of the pilot courts and New case management system operational
recommendations and needed investments        of the rollout, generally is hindered by the     in Supreme Court only which has adequate
implemented in the Supreme Court, the         lack of IT systems administrators in the         IT staff. Rollout itself abandoned in this
Durres Court of Appeal and the Tirana         judical system                                   Project, but will be implemented by EC under
District Court; evaluated and revised new                                                      new support using this Projects preparatory
procedures then implemented in all remaining                                                   work. New IT staff being hired.
courts
3. Magistrates' School provides more          Remaining project assistance will be used to Four new course textbooks published, and
courses as well as continuing judicial        expand the Magistrates' School's courses for new courses offered. 22 staff trained in
education to judges with less than 5 yrs of   judges and develop new training curricula for modern instruction methods. Court
eperience and imporves its legal research     court chancellors/clerks.                        administrators trained and new manual on
facilities                                                                                     court administration published. Premises
                                                                                               refurbished and new computer lab with
                                                                                               internet access operational. Students
                                                                                               required to carry out online research.
4. Qualifications of execution officers       After delay in distribution of software to field Basic training in computing delivered to HQ
improved by training programs.                offices, agreement was reached to cancel         staff, but many staff replaced in later
Recommendations for [restructuring judicial   planned study tour and reprogram remaining personnel overhaul. Database for case
inspection] and investments implemented       funds for this activity to allow consultant to   registry, FM, equipment inventory designed
                                              provide management tools and training for 2      and software delivered to all regional offices,
                                              additional pilot offices.                        but only operational in Tirana and Durres.
                                                                                               Vehicle fleet procured in line with work load
                                                                                               needs.
5. Qualifications of inspection officers      The Project will provide the HCJ with advice     Technical assistance, capacity buildling and
improved by training programs.                on improving its inspection techniques as        upgraded facilities provided to
Recommendations for [restructuring judicial   well as providing assistance with developing     newly-empowered HCJ. Detailed
inspection] and investments implemented       an effective evaluation and promotion system recommendations provided on court
                                              for judges.                                      rationalization plan including staffing and
                                                                                               budgets, draft amendments for law and
                                                                                               regulations to reform judicial inspection,
                                                                                               recommendations on management of judge
                                                                                               evaluations, transfers and promotions.
6. Alternative Dispute Resolution center for  Commercial mediation and arbitration center, MEDART established, 13 mediators and
commercial disputes fully operational and     MEDART, created with board, executive            arbitrators training. New legislation and
professionally staffed                        Director and trained mediators and               amendments to Arbitration Law proposed.
                                              arbitrators. Center has begun to conduct         Public awareness campaign and pilot referral
                                              initial arbitrations. MEDART, has trained a      process with Tirana District Court conducted.
                                              number of arbitrators and mediators and has
                                              undertaken a broad public awareness
                                              campaign.
7. Ready access provided to up-to-date        The remaining component on the                   CODIS and JUDIS operational. Public
laws, regulations and important jurisprudence Dissemination of Legal Information continues Information Office in Ministry of Justice
in electronic and printed forms and capacity  to expand access to both Supreme Court           established, but staff not hired in time to
built to ensure the regular consolidation of  decisions (soon to be placed on the Internet) implement planned training before closing. .
laws and regulations.                         and all Albanian legal acts from 1990 to the     Criminal records issuance process
                                              present. The Ministry of Justice has also        computerized.
                                              made significant progress in automating its
                                              penal records system and has created a
                                              Public Information Office. However, the
                                              Office is insufficiently staffed with people
                                              from the Ministry's PR office.




                                                                   - 28 -

1End of project




                   - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Legal Education                                              1.80             0.45              25
Strengthening of Judiciary                                   4.25             5.39             127
Mediation and Arbitration of Commercial Disputes             0.80             1.19             149
Dissemination of Legal Information                           1.60             1.13              71
Project Management                                           0.55             0.51             102

Total Baseline Cost                                          9.00             8.67
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.50
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00
                         Total Project Costs                 9.50             8.67
                  Total Financing Required                   9.50             8.67


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           1.26             0.00         0.00          0.00         1.26
                                  (1.06)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.06)
2. Goods                           3.48             0.00         0.34          0.00         3.82
                                  (3.28)           (0.00)      (0.34)          (0.00)       (3.62)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         4.18          0.00         4.18
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.13)          (0.00)       (4.13)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.24          0.00         0.24
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.19)          (0.00)       (0.19)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           4.74             0.00         4.76          0.00         9.50
                                  (4.34)           (0.00)      (4.66)          (0.00)       (9.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.24            0.00         0.00           0.00        3.24
                                  (3.04)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.04)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         4.81           0.00        4.81
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (4.15)         (0.00)       (4.15)

                                                - 30 -

   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                3.24               0.00              4.81             0.00              8.05
                                          (3.04)             (0.00)            (4.15)            (0.00)           (7.19)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Legal Education                1.60         0.20                     0.45         0.00                  28.1      0.0
Strengthening of Judiciary     4.20         0.05                     4.62         0.27                  110.0    540.0
Mediation and Arbitration      0.75         0.05                     1.13         0.00                  150.7     0.0
of Commercial Disputes
Dissemination of Legal         1.45         0.15                     0.62         0.00                  42.8      0.0
Information
Project Management             0.50         0.05                     1.51         0.04                  302.0     80.0
Unallocated                    0.50         0.00                                                         0.0      0.0
Total Project                  9.00         0.50                     8.34         0.31                  92.7      62.0




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                 NOT APPLICABLE




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/18/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1), SR.
                                             COUNSEL (1)
              04/27/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             COUNSEL (2) CONSULTANT
                                             (3)
              01/20/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             COUNSEL (1), TEAM
                                             MEMBER (1), CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              02/07/1999                3    COUNSEL (1) TEAM
                                             MEMBERS (2)
              06/21/1999                2    TTL (1), PUBLIC ESP. MNGT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/20/1999                                                      S               S

                                        3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             COUNSEL (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/06/1999                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1), PUBLIC
                                             ADMIN. (1), PUBLIC
                                             EXPENDITURE MNGT. (1)
                                             PROCUMENT (1)
                                             COORDINATOR (1)
              09/26/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 Supervision
              04/23/2001                2    TTL (1), PROJECT OFICER          S               S
                                             (1)
              03/27/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1), PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1), SR.
                                             PROCUREMENT SPLT (1)
              04/05/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             SENIOR COUNSEL; (1) SR.
                                             INFORMATICS OFFICER 1)
              11/06/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             LEGAL SPECIALIST (1)
              06/06/2003                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 33 -

               Mid Term Review              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1) PROJECT OFFICER
                                            (1);SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                            MNGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            LEGAL SPECIALIST (1)
               09/10/2003              1    SENIOR FINANCIAL MNGT.            S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               01/26/2004              2    TASK MANAGER (1); LEGAL           S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               10/04/2004              4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                            LEGAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               05/06/2005              2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROJECT OFFFICER (1)

 ICR
               10/17/2005             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                            LEGAL SPECIALIST;
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               27                          344
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    38                          159
  Supervision                            170                           593
  ICR                                      13                           80
  Total                                  247                          1177




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, March 1 2000
Development Credit Agreement, April 18, 2000
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
Back-to-Office Reports:
   November 20 to 28, 1997
   April 27 to May 11, 1998
   September 20 to 7, 1999
Aide Memoires:
   April 23-27, 2001
   March 27-April 5, 2002
   November 12-22, 2002
   May 21-June 6, 2003 (mid-term review)
   January 25-31, 2004
   May 6-12, 2004
   October 5-12, 2004
   May 6-12, 2005
   October 17-28, 2005




                                             - 37 -

- 38 -

