Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19915-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.0 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
March 1, 2000
Poverty Reduction andEconomic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of February 22, 2000)
Currency Unit = Albanian LEK
LEK 1= US$ 0.0072
US$ 1 = 138.85 LEK
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABA-Ceeli           - American Bar Association-Central Eastern European
Law Initiative
CAS                 - Country Assistance Strategy
CMAP                - Comprehensive Multilateral Assistance Program
COE                 - Council of Europe
CPAR                - Country Procurement Assessment Report
DANIDA              - Danish Development Agency
EU                  - European Union
FOA                 - Friends of Albania
FY                  - Fiscal Year
GDP                 - Gross Domestic Product
GOA                 - Government of Albania
HCJ                 - High Council of Justice
ICR                 - Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 - International Development Association
Law Faculty         - University of Tirana Law Faculty
MIS                 - Management Information System
MOE                 - Ministry of Education
MOF                 - Ministry of Finance
MOJ                 - Ministry of Justice
NGO                 - Non-governmental Organization
NJC                 - National Judicial Conference
OSCE                - Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PIJ                 - Project Implementation Unit
PHRD                - Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SAC                 - Structural Adjustment Credit
SOEs                - Statement of Expenditures
UNDP                - United Nations Development Programme
USAID               - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sandra Bloemenkamp



ALBANIA
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 12
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      21
5. Social                                                                             22
6. Environmental assessment                                                           22
7. Participatory approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          24
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Sumrnmary                                                      26
Annex 2: Project Description                                                           34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       41
Annex 4: Not Applicable                                                                42
Annex 5: Not Applicable                                                                43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          57
MAP(S)
IBRD Map No. 28467R



ALBANIA
Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: March 1, 2000                                Team Leader: Sandra Bloemenkarnp
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartmann        Sector Manager/Director: Pradeep K. Mitra
Project ID: P057182                                Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
-I Loan         1 Credit        I Grant          O Guarantee     E Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard IDA                            Service charge: 0.75%
GoverB nent                                                      0.50            0.00           0.50
IBRD
IDA                                                              0.00            9.00           9.00
Total:                                                           0.50            9.00           9.50
Borrower: ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
A Project Implementation Unit has been established, located in the Ministry of Justice
Address: Blvd. "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Ms. Violanda Theodori, PIU Director
Tel: (355-42)32704                 Fax: (355-42) 28359                Email:
kabinetdrejt@albaniaonline.net
Other Agency(ies):
The Supreme Court
Address:
Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Perikli Zharaia, Chancellor of the Supreme Court
Tel: (355-42)23126 or 28327              Fax: (355-42) 23126                Email:
The Faculty of Law, University of Tirana
Address:
Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Kudret Cela, Dean
Tel: (355-42) 32537              Fax: (355-42) 32537                Email:



Estimated disbursements( Bank FYIUS$M):
...... . ...              3         .  4.....
Annual     0.1           1.5          2.0         3.0         2.4
Cumulative     0.1           1.6          3.6         6.6         9.0
Project implementation period: 4 years (2000-2004)
Expected effectiveness date: 06/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OcAF  I9    .
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Government of Albania has adopted a comprehensive policy reform program to strengthen Albania's
weak institutional and governance capacity, including its ability to enforce its laws and regulations. This
reform program is supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit which was approved by the Association in
June of 1999. The overall objective of the Project is to provide required resources for technical assistance,
training, goods, and works that are needed to implement important aspects of the Government's institutional
agenda for legal and justice system reforms, thereby contributing to the strengthening of the rule of law in
Albania.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Strengthening the capacity of Albania's legal and justice system is a monumental task. Even approaching
western European standards in this respect will require many decades beyond the time-horizon of this
Project.  Moreover, the Bank's experience in Albania demonstrates that progress in building civic
institutions is fraught with difficulties. Small steps forward seem inevitably to be followed by non-trivial
setbacks. For instance, during the preparation of this Project, the Government became convinced of the
need to establish a new institution called the Judicial Inspectors' Office within the judiciary which would
inspect the functioning of Albanian courts and make periodic recommendations to Albania's High Council
of Justice as a result. Now, over two years later however, the Government is still debating: (a) the
fundamental wisdom of this move; (b) the real role of the Inspectors' Office and how it should be
performed; and (c) the role of the existing judicial inspector's department within the Ministry of Justice,
whether this department should continue to exist and, if so, how it should interact with the Judicial
Inspectors' Office. In addition, the Inspectors' Office has been so starved of funds as effectively to prohibit
basic day-to-day operations, let alone any capacity-building within this institution. This process of
uncertainty will likely be replicated in implementing other aspects of the Govermnent's institutional reform
strategy, including efforts to establish a fully independent judiciary, a concept introduced only in 1991 in
Albania. This Project will, therefore, itself experience uncertainty. By design, the Project's time horizon is
relatively short so as to keep pressure on the Government to ensure minimal slippage during Project
implementation, as well as to permit preparation of a follow-on operation if progress under this Project
demonstrates promising impacts. This will also allow any follow-on operation to be tailored to evolving
needs which cannot realistically be predicted at this time.
In light of these considerations, the Project will include a number of performance indicators. Some will
focus attention on the longer-term objectives of the Government's reform effort. Others will reflect progress
or otherwise in the shorter-term of the Project implementation period. Key performance indicators will
measure the following goals:
* a strengthened system of legal and judicial education, resulting in better trained legal professionals,
including University of Tirana Faculty of Law graduates and practicing judges;
* a more accessible, transparent (less-corrupt), and effective judicial system, including improved
enforcement of judicial decisions;
*   the use of mediation and arbitration as alternative means to resolve commercial disputes outside the
formal justice system; and
*   improved access by government officials, judges, parliamentarians, legal professionals, the
business community, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive, and up-to-date legal
information.
-3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18161 AL                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/98
The 1997 crisis brought into focus the inherent problems in Albania's economic governance capacity and
the inability of the Government to enforce its laws and regulations. The 1998 CAS, therefore, places
central, cross-sectoral emphasis on governance and institution building and identifies the need to adopt and
implement reforms to build an accountable and transparent state that has the capacity to govern within an
adequate and improved legal and judicial framework as the most important challenge facing the
Government of Albania. The CAS progress report, which will be presented to the Board on March 21,
2000, confirms the agreement between the government and the Bank that these themes are still
fundamental. The progress report notes that the foundations for legal and judicial reforms are in place, but
that continued institutional strengthening is still needed to help implement the comprehensive policy reforms
and anti-corruption measures in the justice area, complementing substantial support from other donors and
the Stability pact.
IDA supported the Government's policy reform program in the legal and judicial area with an Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC), approved by the Board in June 1999. The free-standing Legal and Judicial
Reform Project, which is presented below, aims to help finance technical assistance, training, goods, and
works needed the implement this policy agenda.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government's strategy for strengthening public institutions required for more effective governance
focuses on measures to assist in: (i) ensuring the rule of law; (ii) the formulation and coordination of
policy; (iii) the reform of public administration; (iv) policy and program implementation; and (v) civic
redress in the event of non-compliance. The Legal and Judicial Reform Project will assist in building the
institutional capacity needed to improve the functioning of the rule of law in Albania. A separate Public
Administration Reform Project will focus on measures to improve policy formulation and coordination,
public admninistration and public financial management.
To a significant extent, the Government's legal and judicial reform program is driven by the desire to have
Albania become more integrated with the rest of Europe. It is also important to understand Albanian
efforts in these respects are strongly supported by a host of donor partners. The European Union, the
Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, UNDP, and a number of
bilateral donors such as the governments of Italy, USA, Denmark and Germany to name just a few (see
paragraph D2 for specifics of their programs in relation to this project) all consider the improvement of
Albania's legal and justice systems as a top priority for the country's process of transition and its closer
integration in Europe. To ensure that this strong support from numerous sources is mutually re-enforcing,
it is recognized that coordination is critically required among donors and within the Albanian government
itself.
Ensuring the rule of law
Since its transition which began in 1991 Albania has made remarkable progress in enacting legislation
anticipated to have significant future relevance to private sector activities. Rather than too little legislation,
however, a significant problem now is "legislative overload". Too many new laws have been enacted too
quickly for the public and private sectors to absorb and apply properly. Especially obvious is the weak
-4 -



existing capacity to implement and enforce the law. Ensuring the rule of law requires fully functioning
legal and justice systems. As the CAS describes, this calls in part for enforcement of the country's laws
and regulations by a competent and independent judiciary, free from political influence and corruption.
But a host of other key legal institutions need to function adequately as well. Medium and long-term
institutional reforms are needed:
*   to raise the level of professionalism of judges and other legal professionals by means of training
and the setting of more rigorous academic standards;
* to rehabilitate and equip courts, and provide security measures so the judiciary can function in
safety;
* to implement effective and efficient court administration and case management systems, and to
improve the poor record of enforcement of judicial decisions in civil cases;
* to provide alternative mechanisms for the resolution of commercial disputes;
* to combat corruption at various stages of legal and judicial procedures;
* to ensure access to up-to-date legal information, including legislation, court decisions and treaties,
to all users; and
* to create a more harmonious, internally consistent and more easily interpreted legislative
framework.
Such improvements will, in tum, help make the legal and justice systems not only more predictable but also
more capable of protecting property and contractual rights, imperative for healthy private sector
development.
Legal Education. Although legal education helps to build a foundation for a "rule of law" state by
preparing future generations of legal professionals (judges, lawyers, scholars, government policy makers,
etc.) to develop and enforce ever-unfolding legal and justice systems, Albania's basic legal education leaves
much to be desired.
There are two law faculties in Albania. The oldest and largest is the Faculty of Law of the University of
Tirana, with some 3,300 students, of which about 2,200 are "correspondence" course students. The Law
Faculty at the University of Shkodra has some 50 day students. Endemic problems which plague these
faculties include: insufficient premises and budget; lack of adequate teaching staff and teaching materials;
and corruption. These make it all but impossible for students to obtain a legal education of any real
quality. Most of the professors in the Tirana Law Faculty are young and inexperienced. The Minister of
Education, among numerous others, has acknowledged that the correspondence system cannot provide
worthwhile legal education, and this system is now abolished for all new entrants. However, fundamental
reform of the law faculties will be required before a new generation of legal professionals can be expected
to perform appropriately in a more modem and appropriate legal system.
The organizational set up of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana needs to be reviewed and
reformed. In February 1999 a new law on Higher Education was adopted, providing considerably greater
autonomy (organizational, budgetary, financial, curriculum and faculty-wise, etc.) to all higher education
institutes, including the law faculties.  While a laudable step, greater autonomy will need to be
complemented by adequate financial management and organizational arrangements suitable for a
decentralized structure. The Tirana University Faculty of Law will need to rnatch greater autonomy with
transparent structures and procedures, ensuring accountability.
In the recent past, anecdotal evidence suggested widespread incidence of bribery and personal favoritism to
permit entrance to law faculties and successful completion of entrance examinations and subsequent tests.
- 5 -



In an effort to reduce abuse in these respects, the Tirana University Faculty of Law has abolished all oral
examinations and started the implementation of anonymous, blind-graded, entrance and subsequent
examinations. Further standardization and controls in this area may be needed, discontinuing the practice
of admitting and graduating students outside the examination process. A thorough review of the proper
number of day law students is also imperative.
The curriculum at the law faculties also needs much improvement. Although the Tirana University Law
Faculty's curriculum has been adjusted frequently over the past few years in an attempt to prepare new
graduates for the changing legal environment, more is needed, including adding elective courses and
developing a broader program of law courses relevant to modem business activities. For example, courses
on taxation, commercial mediation and arbitration, banling and corporate finance, negotiations and
contracting, bankruptcy, legal accounting and secured lending would all be helpful.
Legal education in Albania also suffers from poorly equipped classrooms and libraries and insufficient and
outdated textbooks. As a general rule, no course materials are available for any students, whether in
full-time or correspondence programs. In the past 8 years, some twelve books have been prepared, but
their quality has been uneven and most have been badly edited. Few are real "texts" or extensive
commentaries on Albanian law. Major subjects are not covered. Many new books are already out of print.
There are no regular review and editing procedures.
The quality of law teaching in general also leaves much to be desired. In recent years, experienced teaching
staff have either retired, resigned, or been replaced, with their places taken by an influx of new and
untrained teachers. Further, the teaching methodology of the prior regime, relying heavily on memorization
and discouraging independent thinking, has not been changed. Though teachers have expressed the desire
for training and new methodology, few have had the opportunity to obtain that training or be exposed to
new methodologies. In any event, short study trips abroad have generally produced few effects at either of
the law faculties in the fields concemed.
Independence of the Judiciary. In the past, rules prohibiting Executive Branch influence on the
appointment and dismissal of judges as well as on the content of formal orders and judgments were unclear
or ignored. As a result, much of the existing judiciary in Albania has been politically appointed and
motivated. Some one-third of existing Albanian judges do not have a law degree but merely a certificate of
attendance at a 6-month "training course" hastily organized in Albania in 1993-94.  Organized by the
Executive, all of the some 450 candidates completed this course successfully and approximately 100
"graduates" were then appointed as judges. In addition, there was, in practice, all too frequent immediate
dismissal of judges as a result of Executive Branch influence. In addition to not providing clear and
publicly stated reasons for such action, there was a lack of respect for other essential elements of due
process for those so dismissed, such as the right to be heard and have legal representation.
The situation did improve dramatically, however, during the course of 1998. Albania's new Constitution of
November 1998 provides a clear foundation for judicial independence and the new law on Judicial
Organization gives further legislative basis of this independence. Also during 1998 membership in the
High Council of Justice (HCJ), responsible for appointment and dismissal of judges, was revised, providing
for a majority of judges for the first time. And new rules were enacted which, again for the first time,
permit judges who are subject to dismissal for any reason to have advance notice of the fact and be allowed
to appear and be represented by counsel, before the HCJ decides the matter. Also, the government has
established a Judicial Inspectors' Office under the supervision of the HCJ. Although the precise role for
this Office remains the subject of debate, there now seems to be consensus that, at the very least, this
Office must play an important role in carrying out investigations of complaints against individual judges,
- 6 -



assessing the competence of those in the existing judicial system and recommending transfers, retirements,
or promotions, where appropriate, to the HCJ.
In order to achieve independence in practice, however, judges will need the tools to help them operate more
independently. They will need adequate education, safety, reasonable working conditions and salaries,
legal information, effective court and case management procedures, and a non-corrupt environment In
each of these respects, however, Albania still has a long way to go. Legal and judicial education leave
much to be desired. Most courthouses are in a deplorable physical state. Salaries of judges, court
administrators and all other judicial system support staff are so low that simple self-preservation may
motivate corrupt behavior. The lack of security for judges is an issue. Judges lack access to the most
basic legal information. Court and case management procedures are woefully inadequate. And training for
court administrators is virtually non-existent. In addition, according to surveys taken in 1998, corruption
in the judiciary is perceived as endemic and widespread. Indeed, the courts as a whole rank second on the
list of most problematic government agencies in this respect.
Quality and Professionalism of Judges and court administrators. Improving the level of basic legal
education is imperative. But there is an urgent need, as well, to ensure that judges have requisite
knowledge and qualifications. With the opening of the Magistrates' School in 1997, the Government took
an important step in this regard. Although much remains to be done to upgrade its faculty and curriculum,
this School already functions as the sole institution in charge of educating new judges, and its mandate
allows it to provide continuing education for existing judges and court administration staff.
The Law on the Organization of the Judiciary introduces minimum higher academnic standards for all new
judges and the government envisages a gradual application of this standard for existing judges. In addition,
to help address general concerns of a widespread lack of adequate judicial qualifications, judges having less
than 10 years of judicial experience were directed by the High Council of Justice to take a re-accreditation
test. The test, organized in May 1999, produced mnixed results. On the advice of the Council of Europe,
the passing grade was set at a particularly modest level to ensure against a radical upheaval in the delivery
of judicial services and an inappropriate level of Executive Branch influence on the Judicial Branch. 190
judges out of a total of approximately 246 judges sat for the exam. Of these, four judges failed and one
was removed for cheating. Thirty-one judges were removed for failure to take the exam, two submitted
resignation letters prior to the exam, and 17 judges were permitted to take the exam at a later date because
of valid health related reasons. A recent decision by Albania's Constitutional Court has made it clear,
however, that no judge may be removed from office for the sole reason of having failed an exam. The
Supreme Court and the High Council of Justice are thus considering next appropriate steps.
The continuing education of judges also needs to be strengthened. The Magistrates' School's efforts in this
regard will focus initially on those judges with less than 5 years of experience but who have passed the
re-accreditation test. For the most experienced judges, a first step towards continuing education was taken
during the first National Judicial Conference held in Tirana in early December 1999. This Conference of
all Albanian judges focused, in part, on getting judges themselves involved in identifying not only their own
continuing education needs but also the best ways to respond to these. The National Judicial Conference is
to become an annual event and it is anticipated that continuing judicial education will be an important
on-going matter for which the Magistrates' School will be called upon for assistance.  Specific subjects
will be those of importance to the judiciary, especially in new areas of law, for example, intellectual
property, tax, banking, bankruptcy, secured lending and comparative law, but other matters of interest to
judges will be addressed as well, such as judicial independence, modem techniques of court and case
management, conditions of service and ethics.
- 7 -



Enforcement of Judicial Decisions. A further particularly problematic matter within the justice system is
the appalling record of enforcement of judicial decisions in civil cases. It is estimated that no more than
one in every three judgments of Albanian Courts in civil cases is ever enforced. Clearly, formal
enforcement mechanisms which work fairly and efficiently are badly needed. The Supreme Court and the
MOJ readily accept that improvements are critical but, so far at least, GOA has lacked both the financial
means and the political/administrative commitment to ensure that this record is improved. A great many
judgments require execution on GOA ministries and yet there has been widespread unwillingness both on
the part of successful litigants and of execution officers even to attempt to enforce judgments in these cases
for fear of government reprisals of one form or another.  Also, judicial orders are frequently unclear.
Furthermore, it is reliably estimated that at least 60% of households and private businesses in Albania are
armed, thereby making the enforcement against private parties typically an issue of potentially considerable
personal risk for enforcement officers. Also, the relationship between the execution offices and the police is
poor, at best, with the police placing low priority on efforts to assist execution officials. Although Albanian
execution officers are technically employed by the Ministry of Justice, in practice, they are seconded to,
and have a single room in, each court-house. And, notwithstanding that the Office is part of the MOJ,
financing of execution offices within each court has been the responsibility of each court. Typically,
however, the funding of this work is given lowest priority. Such financing as exists is so paltry and
sporadic that there are few, if any, incentives to carry out enforcement measures at all, let alone well.
Salaries are exceeding low and no bonus system is in effect. Office premises in each court are, in the vast
majority of cases, run-down and inadequate. Cars and other needed equipment are lacking. And the staff
of these offices lack training in enforcement matters. There are no premises to store seized goods or to hold
public auctions in secure surroundings. In the event a monetary award gets enforced against an individual,
3% of the sum in question is, by law, provided by the Office to the State Budget through the Ministry of
Finance. When a judgment gets enforced against a juridical person, 7% is so provided. In neither event,
however, is the Office permitted to retain any portion of these funds to finance its operations.
Judicial System Administration. Effective court and case management is vital to ensure a proper and
timely judicial process and to free judges from administrative duties so they can focus on their judicial
responsibilities. The government took a first step to address this issue in rmid-1998 by adopting a Law
establishing an Court Administration Budget Office. This Office is responsible, in part, for court
administration, including assisting in the formulation of budgets for each court and the procurement of
goods and services for the judicial system.  Judges need the support of adequately trained court
administrators who will manage court registries, court files, acceptance of papers for filing, and so on. A
training program for court administrators, to be set up by the Magistrates' School, needs to be developed
and implemented quickly.
Corruption. Corruption is a serious problem in the judicial system as well as in the rest of the public
administration, notwithstanding that the giving and receiving of bribes constitute crimes under Albania's
Criminal Code. In addition to raising salaries to higher levels, combating corruption in the judiciary will
require that all the other issues discussed above are adequately addressed as well.  Measures needed
include the reform of legal education, the upgrading of the professionalism and quality of judges, the
introduction of more transparent and efficient court and case management procedures, improvements to the
physical infrastructure of the courts, and the publication and dissemination of legal information, including
judicial decisions.
Physical Infrastructure. The existing physical infrastructure of the courts and related facilities are, as a
general rule, in deplorable condition. Court houses generally have no appropriate rooms for the orderly
conduct of trials and which permit public attendance. They also lack appropriate meeting rooms for
litigants, their attorneys and witnesses, to say nothing, most frequently, of basic additional facilities,
- 8 -



including court registry offices, libraries, archives and administrative offices. There is also a near total
lack of modem equipment for photocopying, word-processing, court reporting and case management.
Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism Building the capacity of the judiciary is a long-term and
complex proposition. To provide an alternative, the introduction of mechanisms to resolve commercial
disputes out of court, using mediation and/or arbitration, would be useful. These mechanisms are now
being used in Albania to resolve community conflicts, but, provided that they are designed correctly, would
help support the development of the private sector as well. It is recognized that the legal framework for
alternative dispute resolution of commercial disputes needs soon to be amended to provide a more effective
framework for mediation and arbitration of commercial disputes, especially in view of the fact that an
independent Center for the Out-of-Court Settlement of Commercial Disputes or Altemative Dispute
Resolution (ADR) Center has recently been established as an NGO.
Legal Information. There are major deficiencies in the publication and dissernination of legal information
in Albania which seriously constrain the proper functioning of the legal and justice systems. The increased
volume of legislation, regulation and jurisprudence in the 1990s has not been accompanied by adequate
publication. Currently, the majority of Albanian laws, Presidential and Ministerial Decrees, selected acts
of the Council of Ministers and decisions of the Constitutional Court are published in the Fletorja Zyrtare
(Official Gazette). However, it is estimated that at least 700 normative acts (decrees, government decisions
and other normative acts, including regulations) remain still to published. In addition, the frequent
amendment of laws is never followed by the publication of consolidated, up-to-date, complete statutes.
Also, very few of Albania's international treaties and conventions of a multilateral or bilateral character
have ever been published. Furthermore, the laws and other texts in the Official Gazette are not organized
by subject matter or otherwise indexed. And finally there are often major delays in the distribution of the
Gazette especially to remote areas of the country.
The 1998 Constitution of Albania requires publication of any law, decree or other normative act before it
can take effect. Also, publication of all jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the most important
decisions of the Supreme Court is now mandatory. In 1999, with assistance of the Council of Europe, a
State Publication Center was established within the MOJ in order to implement these constitutional
requirements. And by December 1999 this Center issued its first publication. Of first priority, all new
laws, international treaties, and relevant judicial decisions, will be published by this Center. The backlog
will also, however, be published over time.
After compiling and publishing all normative legal information, ensuring the means of its dissemination will
be the next priority. Currently, the Official Gazette is distributed by the postal service. In rare cases,
newspapers reprint excerpts of new legislation or drafts. In many cases, individual users obtain copies of
non-official texts of legislation or jurisprudence thirough informal networks. For the proper functioning of
the entire legal and justice system, however, it is crucial that all government ministries, agencies, courts,
law schools, the business community and the public at large have better access to Albania's legislation and
most important jurisprudence. This will require the establishment and constant up-dating of an exhaustive
electronic database and the provision of reliable access to it to all potential users, in conjunction with other
more traditional methods of disseminating this information in hard-copy.
Legislation. Finally, the laws of Albania will need further attention. As indicated above, the vast number
of relatively recent laws has led to difficulties in implementation. In addition, however, there still exist
some significant gaps in Albanian law. For example, important Civil Code matters still remain to be
enacted. Also, having been somewhat "bombarded" in recent years by foreign legislative assistance,
Albania has, perhaps inevitably, adopted laws modeled on different jurisdictions within the continental law
-9-



system, as well as on various precedents within the Anglo-American legal tradition, without its own
domestic legal traditions always given due consideration. Besides problems of substance or content, there
is frequent lack of uniformity in the style of legislative drafting and in statutory terminology.
Recent Government Initiatives
The most important recent Government initiative has been its initial steps in the formulation of a
comprehensive legal and judicial reform program which pays particular attention to improving the key legal
institutions needed to ensure the application and enforcement of Albanian law. This program, which is a
work in progress, consists of measures to strengthen core legal institutional capacity in five areas. In the
first place, Albania's legislation in respect of key legal and justice system institutions is to be harmonized
with the new Albanian Constitution and with European Conventions.   Secondly, legal and judicial
education institutes are to be upgraded to better ensure that legal professionals are adequately trained
initially and on a continuing basis thereafter. Thirdly, the quality of the judiciary must be adequate to
apply the law fairly, transparently, objectively and efficiently, and the skills of support staff, including
court registrars and administrators, must be improved. Fourthly, enforcement records of judicial decisions
are to be improved significantly. Fifthly, mechanisms need to be developed to encourage the private,
out-of-court, resolution of commercial disputes whenever possible. And finally, as is required by the
Constitution, all new laws, regulations, and essential jurisprudence must be published before being applied.
As mentioned above, this program it is being supported by various multilateral organizations apart from the
Association, including the Council of Europe (COE), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE), the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as
well as bilateral donors, including the Danish, German, Italian and United States Governments. Important
policy initiatives for the success of this program are being supported by IDA under the SAC.   This
investment Project will help support the strengthening of selected key legal institutions.
Harmonizing basic legislation with the constitution and European Conventions. A major effort is
underway to harmonize the basic legislative framework for key legal institutions with the new Constitution
and European Conventions. Examples are new organic laws on the Constitutional Court, the High Council
of Justice (HCJ), the Police, the Law on Execution Offices, the Organization of the Supreme Court, and the
Prosecutor General's Office, that are all under preparation. Extensive support in this effort is being
provided by the Council of Europe and bilateral donors. To help in the formulation of the anticipated
organic law for the MOJ, a functional review of the MOJ was completed in October 1999. The results and
recommendations of this review are now being considered in the drafting of this law and are having an
impact on relations between, and the sharing of responsibilities among, the MOJ and other pertinent
institutions such as those responsible for Court administration and the inspection, within the judicial system
itself, of judicial branch performance. As an example, in November 1999, important amendment were
introduced in the Law on Judicial Organization. With regard to responsibility for court administration,
several changes are adopted: (i) each court shall have a chancellor position, responsible for all
administrative aspects of the court; (ii) each court will have a separate budget department; (iii) the
chancellor and the head of the budged department remain the only two positions in the courts to be
appointed by the Minister of Justice; all other administrative staff will be appointed by the chief judge of
each court, on nomination of the chancellor.
Upgrading the quality of basic legal education institutions is an important part of the program. Drawing
on foreign and local expertise, the Law Faculty of the University of Tirana has prepared a fundamental
reform program which addresses the Faculty's current problems and aims to ensure that future generations
of legal professionals have appropriate analytical skills and a thorough understanding of Albanian law.
10-



This program, inspired by a previous Comprehensive Multilateral Action Plan (CMAP), provides a flexible
framework for domestic and international efforts to improve legal education at the Faculty of Law and
deals with structural, organizational, managerial, and budgetary issues, in addition to fundamental reforrm
of the Faculty's curriculum and teaching methods. In order to match the limited capacity of the Tirana Law
Faculty to provide higher quality legal education in the foreseeable future, no more than 150 new entrants
will be admitted per year, thus limiting the total student population of the Tirana Faculty to 650. The plan
of action also itemizes priority requirements needing external financial support, including the development
of a new curriculum, the training of teachers, irnprovements in law text book publication, the installation
of basic equipment, the renovation of the existing premises, and the construction, furnishing and equipping
of an extension to these premises. A multilateral group, lead by the Dean of the Tirana Law Faculty, will
ensure the coordination of all relevant donor initiatives. The SAC reform program supports the
implementation of this reform program and important financial support to the Tirana University's Faculty
of Law will be provided under this Project.  In addition, the Danish Government has indicated a
willingness to provide some US$500,000 equivalent in grant funding for this Faculty reform program over
the life of the Project.
Improving the functioning of the judiciary is the third part of this program. The Government has already
taken important steps to establish an institutional structure for the judiciary and the Law on the
Organization of the Judiciary has been amended to provide a more solid basis for Albania's judicial
structure. The composition of the High Council of Justice (HCJ) has also been recently revised to permit
judges to elect the majority of Council members. And the HCJ's decision-making process has become more
transparent and fair. Also, as indicated above, a Judicial Inspection Office, under the HCJ, has been
created to evaluate the performance of, and to investigate complaints regarding individual judges. The
Inspectors' Office advises the HCJ on its findings with a view to the HCJ taking appropriate action. The
November 1999 amendment of the Law on the Organization of the Judiciary added a provision to further
clarify the appointment procedures for the inspectors, and envisages, besides inspection ofjudges, a role for
the Inspector's Office to carry out inspections with regard to court administration performance. And
finally, a Court Administration Budget Office under the Supreme Court has been established with a view to
ensuring an improved and more independent judicial budgetary system.
To address widespread concems regarding the quality of first instance judges having less than 10 years of
judicial experience, the High Council of Justice set a re-accreditation test for all 250 of these judges in May
1999. Five judges failed and some 35 others refused to take the test. By HCJ decision, these 40 judges
were then removed from their judicial positions. The removal from office of a judge for failure to pass a
single test has, however, recently been declared unconstitutional and the HCJ is now reconsidering next
steps. It is anticipated that this one-time procedure will be followed in the future by periodic individual
judicial performance evaluations carried out by the HCJ's Judicial Inspectors' Office.
Also, with help of international experts, the government now intends to carry out a comprehensive review
of Albania's court and case management procedures and practices. Implernentation of recommendations of
this review will initially be implemented in the Supreme Court, the Durres Court of Appeal and the District
Court of Tirana. After evaluation of the lessons learned from these "pilot" courts, the court and case
management program will then be "rolled out" to all other Courts of Appeal and District Courts. Also, the
government will adopt regulations defining the objectives, rules and regulations for the preparation of court
budgets and will strengthen the Central Court Budget Office under the Supreme Court.
To improve the education of judges, the Magistrates' School will significantly expand its programs for
judges with less than five years experience. In addition, it appears likely that the National Judicial
Conference will focus at least part of its annual program on continuing education needs of Albania's most
- 11 -



experienced judges.
To address the very poor record in the enforcement of judgments in civil cases, a joint Ministry of
Justice/Judiciary Committee has been established. With the assistance of international expertise, this
Committee is now charged with preparing an appropriate, comprehensive, multi-year action plan for reform
in these respects. An initial requirement will be to finalize and adopt a new legal framework for the MOJ's
Execution Office and its officers, making these officials responsible solely to the MOJ, and ensuring the
means for adequate, sustainable, levels of financing. In addition, the plan will identify training and other
technical assistance needs for Execution Office officials and itemize the priority investment requirements
for the Office.
The Government has also committed itself to an analysis of the role of judicial system inspection in Albania
and of the existing institutional arrangements for such inspection within the HCJ and the MOJ. Once
agreement is reached on appropriate policy and institutional fundamentals and on a corresponding action
program of relevant investments, it will then be incumbent on Government to provide the relevant office(s)
with adequate facilities and budgetary allocations so that agreed responsibilities are carried out fairly and
effectively. It is envisaged that the Credit will assist in financing training, other technical assistance and
the purchase of relevant equipment. In addition, once the above-mentioned analysis is completed and the
resulting action program agreed, the Danish Government has indicated its interest in providing matching
funding on a grant basis to assist in the implementation of this program.
To create a system for the out-of-court resolution of commercial disputes, it is now anticipated that, by
September 30, 2000, the Government will have enacted legislation to facilitate the proper functioning of an
independent mediation/arbitration Center. This Center will: (i) remain a free-standing independent legal
entity, not related to any existing public or private institution; (ii) provide both mediation and arbitration
services; (iii) focus exclusively on commercial issues and be staffed by people with market expertise; (iv)
consist of a panel of at least 10 highly respected professionals, each trained as mediators and arbitrators;
(v) have a well-trained administrative and clerical/support staff; and (vi) provide an extensive
outreach/consumer education program.
To improve transparency of the legal and judicial system, in addition to the creation of the State
Publication Center, the government is in the process of designing a dissemination system to make core
legal information more accessible. A dissemination plan is now under final preparation with help of
international experts. And as soon as the State Publication Center is fully functioning implementation of
this plan will commence. The goal is to ensure ready access to up-to-date basic legal informnation for all
courts, government ministries, local governments, Law Faculties, private lawyers, public libraries and all
other interested institutions and individuals as soon as possible. In addition to making this information
available electronically, public paid subscriptions will be available to anyone who seeks these publications
in hard copy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Extreme weakness in its public sector institutions limits Albania's capacity to function as a rule of law
state. All too frequently Albanian legislation has been a "dead letter" because the needed institutional
capacity to make it understood and applied has been absent. In addition, significant financing is being
provided by other donors for technical assistance in the drafting and harmonization of laws. Therefore,
Albania's strategic choice has been to focus this investment Project entirely on strengthening the capacity of
key legal and justice system institutions.
- 12-



The Project has been designed to help implement important policy measures the Government has adopted
as described above. Assistance will focus on supporting legal and justice system institutions, including the
judiciary (training and court and case management improvements), the Court Administration Budget
Office, MOJ judicial decision enforcement mechanisms, the Judicial Inspectors' Office, the Tirana
University's Faculty of Law, the Magistrates' School, the State Publication Center under the MOJ
(dissemination of legal informnation), and the independent center for the mediation and arbitration of
commercial disputes.  Support will consist of technical assistance, training programs, goods and
equipment, and the rehabilitation and extension of the existing premises of the Faculty of Law of the
University of Tirana. The Credit will not, however, fund technical expertise to assist in the process of
legislative drafting and harmonization which remains a prime interest of the Council of Europe and others.
Also, although it is anticipated that lessons leamed in the implementation of the legal education component
will, in time, be applied in respect of reforms to the Faculty of Law at the University of Shkodra, given this
Faculty's small size, the strategic choice was made not to include any direct assistance to it under the
Project. Close cooperation and the sharing of all relevant information among donors will ensure that no
overlapping of assistance takes place.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will contribute to ongoing efforts of the executive and judicial branches of government to
strengthen the implementation of the rule of law in Albania. Important policy reforms in these respects are
supported by IDA under the SAC program. However, to ensure their effective imnplementation, specific
investments in technical assistance, training, equipment, goods and works are needed. Hence, the Project
will provide support to selected legal and judicial institutions in Albania and will build on other
interventions, by IDA and other donors, in particular the EU, the COE, USAID, ABA-Ceeli, the Soros
Foundation, OCSE and the Danish Government.
The Project addresses the objectives underlined in the above strategy by focusing on some of the most
important elements that underpin the foundations for a more efficient and transparent functioning of the
state, based on the rule of law. The Project consists of five components: (i) legal education; (ii)
strengthening of the justice system; (iii) alternative dispute resolution; (iv) dissemination of legal
information; and (v) project management.   PHRD  grant funds in the amount of approximately
US$280,000 were utilized for purposes of assisting in preparing the Project. Detailed preparatory work
has been completed regarding legal education, ADR and legal information dissemination. Further detailed
preparatory work will also soon be completed in respect of: (a) court and case management reform; (b) the
enforcement of judicial decisions in civil cases; and (c) inspection activities within the judicial system. In
addition, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within the MOJ and the PIUs four,
full-time, professional positions are being filled.
- 13-



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... P.........
J~~4~tIve       ~c....         .  .  f
1. Improve Legal Education                              1.80       18.9      1.60       17.8
2. Strengthen the Justice System                        2.00       21.1      2.00       22.2
a) Improve Court and Case
Management
b) Improve Judicial Education                         0.55        5.8      0.55        6.1
c) Improve Enforcement of                             1.05       11.1      1.00       11.1
Judicial Decisions in Civil
Cases
d) Strengthen Judicial Inspection                     0.65        6.8      0.65        7.2
3. Provide ADR Mechanisms for                           0.80        8.4       0.75       8.3
Commercial Disputes
4. Disseminate Legal Information                        1.60       16.8       1.45      16.1
5. Project Management                                   0.55        5.8      0.50        5.6
6. Unallocated                                          0.50        5.3      0.50        5.6
Total Project Costs                     9.50      100.0      9.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                      9.50      100.0      9.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Important policy and institutional reforms have been taken which help lay a foundation for the
Governmnent's institutional reform strategy. Some of these were taken in the months leading up to the
Structural Adjustment Credit; others have constituted SAC tranche release conditions.  Additional
measures have been undertaken with the support of the SAC. The Project will provide the investment and
technical assistance required to ensure that these initiatives bear fruit. Key reforms taken to date include:
Improve the quality of legal professionals
3   New correspondence courses abolished at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana
except for Members of Parliament (September 1998)
*   Reform Program for the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana adopted (November 1999)
*   Implementation of the above Reform Program underway (February 2000)
Improve the functioning of the judiciary
*   Constitution adopted providing adequate legal basis for judicial independence, and for the
publication of any normative act before its application (November 1998)
*   Law enacted establishing Central Budget Unit for Courts (November 1998); Director and
some key staff appointed
*   Amendments enacted to the Law on Judicial Organization (December 1998)
*   Judicial Inspectors' Office under the HCJ established, and initial rules enacted (April 1998); a
new Law drafted on the Organization and Functioning of the HCJ (December 1999)
*   Regulation enacted providing objectives and rules for the efficient preparation of court
budgets, (April 1999) and training underway for court administrators to improve court
management and budget processes (June 1999)
*   Functional review of MOJ completed (October 1999)
*   Re-accreditation test administered for all first-instance judges with less than 10 years
- 14 -



experience (May 1999) and judges who did not pass the test or refused to take it dismissed
from office (October 1999)
*   MOJ/judiciary working group established to assist in the preparation of an Action Program to
strengthen enforcement of judicial decisions in civil cases (October 1999)
Provide for Arbitration and Mediation of Commercial Disputes
* New Statute on independent ADR Center prepared and ADR Center fonnally established
(December 1999)
Improve accessibility of laws
*   Law creating State Publication Center (June 1999)
*   Dissemination of legal information through the Center begun (December 1999)
3. Benefits and target population:
It is anticipated that Project's institutional reforms will have a positive impact, directly and indirectly, on
Albanian society as a whole. The following table summarizes key anticipated benefits.
Target P  ulation
Benefit                 Direct Beneficiaries          Indirect Beneficiaries
Better qualified and trained  Students, Teaching and      Population at large, Business
legal professionals        Administrative Staff, Judges,  conmmunity
Court administrators, Lawyers,
Increased credibility of legal   Government, Judiciary, Litigants  Population at large, Business
and judicial institutions                                 community
Enhanced perceptions of a more Investors, Government, Litigants, Citizenry, business (local and
genuine "rule of law".      Citizenry                     foreign), governments
More reliable, less costly and   Citizens, Business community,    Citizenry, Taxpayers
less time-consuming         Government, Disputants
enforcement of legal rights
Easier access to legal     Government, legal professionals,  Citizenry, business (local and
documents and precedents   investors, business comnmunity,   foreign), governments
those requiring legal assistance,
scholars, students
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project is expected to be implemented over a four-year period (2000-2004).
Proiect Implementation: In the early 1998 the Government created a Coordination Council to be in charge
of supervising the implementation of reforms in the legal and judicial area. This Council comprises the
Minister of Justice, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Dean of
the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana, and the Director of the Magistrates' School. While this
Coordination Council will provide overall policy direction (after all, a key government function) and thus
will have ultimate responsibility for implementing the Project and monitoring its progress, day-to-day
Project implementation will be carried out by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) located within the
Ministry of Justice. The PIU will be comprised of a Director, and a legal reform coordinator, a
- 15-



procurement/disbursement specialist and a financial management specialist. Firm GOA commitment to a
strong PIU has been forthcoming. The PIU will report directly to the Coordination Council on a regular
basis and will act as this Council's secretariat. The PIU will be provided with the resources necessary to
hire short- and long-term specialized consultants to facilitate Project implementation and ensure
appropriate Project monitoring. It will also have the responsibility, and be provided resources to plan,
budget and manage all facets of Project implementation. Incremental operating costs related to Project
implementation, management, monitoring and supervision will be funded through the IDA Credit for 90%;
the remaining 10% will be financed by the government budget. To accelerate Project implementation, the
Government wishes to undertake advance contracting to employ staff, as well as to finance some other
urgent needs in the PIU. The selection procedures, including advertisement, will be in accordance with the
Association's guidelines and the Association's normal review process will be followed.
Monitoring and Evaluation Design: The PIU will have a monitoring and evaluation system for which an
appropriate computerized Management Information System (MIS) will be set up under the Project. It will
track three main variables:
* financial indicators (e.g. amounts contracted and disbursed);
* performance indicators (as listed in Annex 1); and
*   physical indicators (e.g. progress of infrastructure construction, procurement of computers, etc.).
The PIU will provide IDA with semi-annual reports on Project progress, by April 30 and October 31 of
each year, beginning in October of 2000. Furthermore, surveys will be taken to obtain stakeholders'
evaluations of the impact of reforms implemented under the Project. In particular, surveys will be taken at
mid-term and at Project completion of the perceptions of relevant stakeholders regarding the performance
of the courts, as well as at Project completion of the perceptions regarding the qualifications of graduates
of the University of Tirana's Faculty of Law.
Financial Management Assessment: The newly established PIU in the Ministry of Justice will be
responsible for the overall financial management of the Project. IDA carried out an accounting and
fmancial management assessment to determine whether the project has an adequate financial management
system in place as required by IDA under OPIBP 10.02. The project satisfies the Bank's mninimum
fmancial management requirements. The PIU will maintain this system and further upgrade it according to
a time-bound action plan, to ensure proper management of the accounting, reporting and financing aspects
of the Project according to IDA's requirements. At the latest by June 30, 2001, the system will provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as required
by IDA for PMR-based disbursements.
Accounting systems: The PIU has just been recently established. Therefore, technical assistance
was needed to design the basic accounting and financial management systerm. The short term Accounting
Consultant assisted the PIU accountant in: (i) the design and implementation of the Project's accounting
and financial management system; (ii) the drafting of the accounting and financial Manual; and (iii) the
computerization of the accounting and financial system with an appropriate integrated software. The new
system will enable the PIU accountant to produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in a
timely and accurate basis.
Staffing: The PIU employs a full-time newly hired accountant.
Audit arrangements: The PIU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing IDA the
audited fmancial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The accounts and financial
- 16-



statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit will be
comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and
expenditures incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing.
The appointment of the auditor will be handled under a project portfolio-wide basis agreement by the
Ministry of Finance.
Disbursement arrangements: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and IDA.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The existing judicial system of Albania has too many systemic and structural weaknesses to meet the needs
of civil society generally and of modem commerce in particular. Although dealing first, and specifically,
with those aspects of the legal framework of particular and immediate relevance to the private sector was
initially considered as an option, this approach was soon discarded. The concern was, and remains, that
piecemeal reform undertaken without addressing the severe weaknesses of the legal and justice systems as a
whole would have had only limited impact. A comprehensive approach has, thus, been adopted, with
Project design being focused on the strengthening of critically important institutions required for a sound
and efficient justice system.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue    -                    e -PSR)Ratings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Economic recovery, institution-building Economic Recovery Technical  S            S
and policy/program formulation    Assistance Credit (November
1997)
Institutional and governance reform    SAC (June 1999)              S             S
Other development agencies
Council of Europe/EU: Assistance in   Legal/judicial reform
respect of: legislative drafting; the
Magistrates' School, the MOJ's State
Publication Center, the harmonization
of laws with European Conventions, the
rehabilitation of 6 selected courts and
the High Court, equipment support to
the MOJ, and the Prosecutor General's
office.
- 17-



GTZ: Assistance regarding            Administrative and commercial
adrniristrative and commercial law,    law reform
ADR, and legislative drafting, including
issues regarding the internal consistency
of laws
OSCE: Assistance in respect of legal   Rule of law support
education, human rights, the office of
the ombudsman and judicial testing
USAID: Assistance for: training in   Judicial training experts funded
commercial law subjects for Albanian   under contract with the
judges with more 1han 5 years of      East-West Management
experience; the National Judicial    institute; workshops started
Conference; and expertise in the
drafting of laNvs (ABA-Ceeli)
DANIDA: Assistance in the order of   DANIDA project still under
some USS 1 5 mifllion equivalent over a 3 preparation, implementation
year period, for: modernization of the   just begun in some areas
legal system, focusing on the
development of all relevant institutions
in one district on a pilot basis;
improvements in judicial system
inspection, implementation of the action
program of Tirana Utniversity's Faculty
of Law; and for the Ombudsman's
office
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since Albania's institutional capacities in the legal and judicial realms are particularly weak, Project design
has been kept sirnple and focused. Though senior-level Albanian counterparts are unanirnous in voicing
commitment to reform, often the institutions they represent still lack even the most rudirnentary skills to
design and implement reform initiatives.  In many cases, staff has never been exposed to educational
institutions, legal or otherwise, which teach deductive reasoning rather than rote memorization. This holds
for the majority of staff of the MOJ, the Courts, and the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana.
Project design, therefore, focused on measures to strengthen key legal and justice system institutions, by
providing funding for significant technical assistance, extensive training programs and the critically
important material needs of these institutions.
In addition, given its particularly repressive communist past, Albania lacks experience in the operation of a
modern democracy and a market economy. Fundamental democratic principles, such as the independence
of the judiciary, a constructive legislative process, and the appointment of officials exclusively on the basis
of their qualifications, are still new concepts in Albania, and will take years to become entrenched. The
Project wvill, however, involve staff of benefiting institutions in training programs which, it is anticipated,
will at least indirectly, have a positive impact in these respects.
It is also recognized that corruption is endernic in Albania and badly taints its legal and judicial system.
Some progress has recently been made in counteracting corrupt behavior, including the introduction of
- 18 -



blind-grading in the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana and the competitive selection of candidates
for the Magistrates' School. The possible eventual role of the HCJ's Judicial Inspectors' Office in rooting
out corrupt activities and the one-time testing of junior judges still, however, need time for resolution. In
recognition of these and the many remaining issues in this respect, the Project will focus efforts on some of
the more egregious problems, including the building of: (a) incentives to help prevent corruption; and (b)
the capacity to police, adjudicate and punish corrupt behavior.
No legal and judicial reform program can possibly be successful without the long-tern sustainable
commitment of senior-most Government officials who themselves: (i) are keenly aware of the need for
reform; (ii) agree with the process by which the program has been defined; and (iii) enthusiastically support
program implementation.  Recognizing this in the context of frequent changes in Albanian senior-level
Government appointments, the Project has taken more time to prepare than might otherwise have been the
case in order to be ensured that all key Government individuals, including the President, the Prime Minister,
members of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the HCJ and those
specifically responsible for the day-to-day guidance of the specific project-related institutions, have,
themselves, come to consensus on: (a) what the appropriate process of reform must be; and (b) what the
highest priorities for reform now are. The Project reflects that consensus, with a design approach that has
been as participatory as possible, involving all relevant stakeholders.
Even though the Project's components have been kept to a minimum, there is also an obvious need for
coordination between each of these.  What successes or failures occur in one component (or
sub-component) will inevitably have an impact on the others. Thus, Project implementation arrangements
include a high-level Coordination Council that will meet regularly to provide guidance regarding the
implementation process.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A number of clear signs of Government conmnitment to this reform process are evident. These can be
conveniently summarized within three broad categories: (i) actions that have helped to establish a legal
framework which is more conducive to reform objectives; (ii) actions aimed at creating the institutional
capacity and leadership required to mount such reform  efforts; and (iii) initial steps in actually
implementing the Government's reform strategy.
Establishing a better legal framework
* Albania's first post-Communist Constitution approved (November 1998)
* Law on Judicial Organization amended (December 1998)
Creating institutional capacity and leadership for the reform effort
*   "Anti-Corruption Workshop" sponsored by Government, with assistance from the World Bank, in
June/July 1998. Press was invited. This was followed by widespread press coverage of the
Workshop, its findings on citizens' and officials' perceptions of the extent, nature and location of
corrupt behavior.   An "Anti-Corruption Action Plan", developed by the Government with
assistance from the World Bank, resulted from the workshop. This was later followed by a decree
mandating implementation of an "Anti-Corruption Action Plan".
*  New Constitution provided adequate basis for judicial independence, and the requirement that any
normative act must first be published before being applied (November 1998).
*   Law establishing Central Budget Unit for Courts enacted (November 1998); Director and key
- 19-



staff appointed.
Commencing institutional reform effort
* Judicial Inspectors' Office has begun to function and new internal regulation for the Organization
and Functioning of the High Council of Justice has been prepared (April 1998)
* Testing ofjudges completed (May, October, 1999)
* Customs Department being strengthened with assistance of Customs Assistance Mission (CAM)
(ongoing)
* Structural Adjustment Credit provided by IDA, focused on institutional and governance reform
(June 1999)
* Functional Review of Ministry of Justice completed (October 1999)
In addition, numerous Government counterparts have been actively involved in the preparation and
appraisal of the Project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Value added by IDA's support for this Project includes: (i) the bringing of an integrated vision to Albania's
systemic legal and judicial reform program; (ii) its history of support to Albania's governance agenda,
including legal and judicial reforms, by several mutually reinforcing operations; (iii) its sector-specific
expertise and credibility; and (iv) the assurance that lessons learned from relevant IDA/Bank experiences
elsewhere are applied now in the Albanian context and that lessons learned from this Project will be applied
in future operations. IDA's SAC and Project teams have helped, and will continue to help, the Government
develop a comprehensive view of the overall institutional reform process. That vision may be found in the
SAC designs and documentation, as well as in the Government's strategic approach delineated above
(Section B.2). Related to this, the SAC and Legal and Judicial Reform Project operations are mutually
reinforcing. They share a common and integrated strategic vision. While the SAC provides the leverage,
this Project will provide the necessary technical assistance and training. IDA-funded sector-specific
expertise will complement simnilar expertise being provided by other donors. Regarding credibility, the
Bank brings a recognized level of expertise, experience, and neutrality, which is appreciated by
counterparts and the donor community alike. Finally, IDA's recent development of a variety of instruments
for measuring the impacts of institutional reform efforts is already providing the basis for surveys of public
officials and the public more generally. The use of these instruments and the experience previously gained
by the Bank in their use will help to ensure that a systematic approach can be taken to learning lessons
from the Government's institutional reform process.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Not Applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
- 20 -



Not Applicable
Fiscal Impact:
Not Applicable
3. Technical:
The Project will ensure that the Government of Albania has access to high-quality expertise of speedily
recruited international and local consultants.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The institutional capacity of the Government to implement an integrated legal and judicial reform program
is limited. And that is the reason IDA is so heavily involved in assisting the Government in building
institutional capacity. The Project will provide required resources for technical assistance, training,
equipment, and some works to build such capacity in the legal and justice system.   The following
institutions will benefit from the Project: (a) the Ministry of Justice, including its Execution Office for
Judicial Decisions and its State Publication Center; (b) the Supreme Court and other Courts; (c) the
Magistrates' School; (d) the Judicial Inspectors' Office; (e) the University of Tirana's Faculty of Law; and
(f) the independent ADR Center.
b. Project management:
The Government has established a Coordination Council to oversee the policy aspects of this Project. While
this Council has overall responsibility for ensuring the implementation of the Project and the monitoring of
its progress, day-to-day implementation will be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PTR) within
the MOJ. The PIU will comprise four, professional-level, staff members, the Director, the Legal Reform
Coordinator, the Procurement Specialist and the Financial Management/Disbursement Specialist. The PIU
will also include support staff capabilities and will be provided the resources necessary to hire short- and
long-term specialized consultants to facilitate Project implementation and ensure appropriate project
monitoring. In particular, the PIU will also be responsible for facilitating project implementation to operate
a sound accounting and financial management system and produce the required financial statements to
monitor eligible expenditures and meet audit requirements. And finally, it will have the responsibility, and
be provided resources, to plan, budget and manage all other facets of Project implementation, including the
carrying out of surveys to measure important aspects of Project performance.
- 21 -



5. Social:
The dual development challenge in Albania today is to convince Albanian society to trust and engage public
institutions, and on the other hand, to instill public institutions with the concept of accountability to civil
society. This project will help address these issues in the context of the legal and judicial institutions. We
expect the Project to have a number of positive social impacts: (i) the implementation of the Law Faculty
reform program will significantly improve the qualifications of future generations legal graduates,
contributing to the application of the rule of law in Albania; (ii) improving transparency and
professionalism of the judiciary, increased enforcement records, and reducing corruption should increase
the confidence by the public at large in the justice system; (iii) the creation of an independent mediation and
arbitration center pilots an alternative out-of-court mechanism for the resolution of local commercial
disputes and will train Albanians in dispute resolution techniques; and (iv) improved access for Albanian
citizens to up-to-date legal information, including judicial decisions, increases transparency and
accountability of the state and its institutions, and should help empower the emerging civil society.
Monitoring mechanisms include several instruments to measure progress independent of the reformed
institutions and institutional personnel (surveys of court users, legal community on quality of law faculty
graduates, reports on the availability of legal information).
6. Environmental assessment:                Environment Category: B
B - The only civil works under the Project involve the rehabilitation and expansion of the premises of the
TUniversity of Tirana's Faculty of Law located in central Tirana. These works will be undertaken in
accordance with standard IDA environmental protection provisions. Given the limited extent of these
works, no review of Albanian environmental policies and legislation has taken place and the Project does
not address the environmental assessment system as such.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
At early Project identification stage, an initial sector report identified major problems in the judicial system.
Field trips to each court in Albania were then carried out to discuss with as many judges as possible their
needs and priorities. The final report was distributed widely and functioned as the basis for the subsequent
judicial reform program. Similarly, in respect of reforms at the University of Tirana's Faculty of Law,
after extensive discussions with senior representatives of the Faculty's administration, its teaching staff and
student body, senior representatives of the Ministry of Education and MOJ, as well as members of the legal
profession and business community, it became clear that significant problems in legal education needed to
be addressed as well. With the help of local experts and based on the analysis of an international expert, the
leadership of the Faculty then designed an action program of Faculty reform to address the most pressing
needs. This program has found strong support from the Faculty's administration, its teaching staff and
students, as well as from other donors. Also in respect of plans for alternative resolution measures for
commercial disputes, the proposed institutional development program was devised only after many
interviews were held with representatives of the Albanian business community, the legal profession, judges,
the government and other mediation organizations in Tirana. In summary, direct beneficiaries have been,
and will remain, key participants in the process of designing the Project-funded, capacity-building,
programs for their own institutions.
- 22 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Preparation of each of Project component and sub-component has included extensive interviews with
relevant stakeholders. For example, in preparing the legal information component, the active involvement
and input from a broad range of individuals (citizens in need of legal infonnation, judges, and
representatives of the business community and the legal profession) was sought and obtained in designing
the approach which has been adopted. Stakeholders will also continue to play an important role in the
implementation of this Project by being periodically surveyed. At the very least, surveys will be aimed at
obtaining perceptions of justice system reforms, as well as the results of the Tirana University Law
Faculty's reform program. If warranted, the views of stakeholders will lead to adjustments in Project
design as well as to one or more follow-on projects.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government's institutional reform strategy, supported by the Project, includes a number of features
that should provide a firmer foundation for sustainability. The more important of these include:
*   Involvement of NGOs and other donors, such as the Council of Europe, the Friends of Albania,
OSCE, the Danish Government, etc., will be sought during Project implementation so as to bring
additional sources of pressure on the Executive and Judicial Branches of Government to implement
the Project as intended.  Substantial efforts are already being devoted to ensuring close
collaboration among donors.
*   Measures to enhance the fiscal sustainability of legal and justice system reforms, including cost
recovery systems, will be introduced wherever possible. Under consideration is a fee-based higher
education system. The Mediation and Arbitration Center for commercial disputes will become
self-financing over time. Also, the MOJ's State Publication Center will provide its publications on
a cost-recovery basis.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rik          -         Risk Ratin             Risk Minimization Measuro
From Outputs to Objective
Informal norms of behavior within the       H         Intensive discussion with all Albanian
legal and judicial system do not allow new            stakeholders (presidency, government,
judicial structures and laws to be applied            parliament, judiciary, NGOs) on the concepts of
as laid out in the Albanian Constitution             judicial independence.
and new organic laws                                  Close liaison with Council of Europe and OCSE
on these issues.
Strengthening of the capacity of judges
themselves (education, working conditions,
fostering collaboration within the judiciary, etc.,
to protect judicial independence), ensuring
proper regulation for HCJ, including its Judicial
Inspectors' Office, court budget office.
- 23 -



Frequent changes in counterparts who are    S         (a) Close and collaborative supervision by a task
to lead the efforts at institutional                 team that has developed a very strong working
capacity-building undermines Project                 relationship with all key counterparts.
implementation                                        (b) Active cooperation with others in the donor
community, including OSCE, EU, Council of
Europe, DANIDA, ABA-Ceeli, USAID, GTZ
and the Italian Government, will strengthen the
capacity to cope with disruptions created by any
turnover of key counterparts.
Government fails to implement policy        M         These reforms remain key to the overall policy
measures in respect of legal and judicial             dialogue between IDA and the Government.
reforms under the SAC                                 The carrying out of policy agenda on a timely
basis is the subject of SAC conditions of
disbursement.
From Components to Outputs
Overall project implementation:             S         (a) Close and collaborative supervision by a task
(a) Volatility of the political and national         team that has developed a very strong working
security situation in Albania occasioned              relationship with all key counterparts.
by the Kosovo crisis could undennine                  (b) Ongoing joint Government/IDA efforts will
Government focus on the project, thereby              help to ensure coordination of project related
hampering Project implementation.                     activities and their counterpart funding for them
(b) Inadequate Project counterpart                    on a timely basis.
financing.
Overall Risk Rating                         s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not Applicable
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) The PIU has been formally established within the MOJ, with adequate legal reform, procurement and
financial management/disbursement skills, and with adequate office space and equipment.
(ii) The Ministry of Justice has adopted, and begun the implementation of, a Project-related financial
management system acceptable to IDA.
- 24 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
No disbursement for any physical works in respect of the rehabilitation or extension of the existing
premises of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana shall occur unless satisfactory progress has then
been made in the implementation of the Faculty Reform Program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) The PIU has been formally established within the MOJ, but adequate legal reform, procurement and
financial management/disbursement skills are still being recruited, and adequate office space and equipment
being allocated.
(ii) The Ministry of Justice is in the process of installing a Project-related financial management system
acceptable to IDA.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
-25 -



a            mp  v             Pradeep K.  itra                   traudHartmann
Team Le der                     Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
. i .. . .... .. . .               N . .   ....
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Improve the functioning of  *Improved legal and justice   *Monitoring and supervision *Ilmproved transparency and
the State                 systems                    of the SAC program         accountability of state
*Public Administration    *Progress reports on the    structures, and strengthened
employees are more        implementation of the      cntibuteo eice
professional and are selected  anti-corruption program  contrgbute to efficlent
and promoted on the basis oflogtrdelpmnad
merit                    *Reports from Impact        the application of the rule of
Monitoring Surveys        law.
*Public expenditure       *Implementation Completion
procedures are more       Report of the SAC
transparent
eAnti-Corruption Program is
advanced
-27 -



.=. . . . . . .. . . . .
.i... . .. . . .                                                     ...S..............---. . ". ......... .H......   -..   .   *.a| e .t .Ts .i...s.-.
Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
*Strengthen the              I. Graduates of the University  1. Survey of legal community  *Government remains
implementation of the rule of of Tirana Faculty of Law are  on quality of Tirana        strongly commented to the
law by improving the        better educated to help in   University's Law Faculty       institutional and governance
functioning of key legal and  ensuring the improved       graduates                     agenda
judicial institutions       functioning of the legal and                               *Security/law and order
justice systems.                                            situation does not deteriorate
2. Courts make good use of    2. Content review of selected  *Corruption in judiciary
more modern court and case   court proceedings. Interviews   decreases, thereby increasing
management techniques and   with key informants, judges,    confidence by the public at
processes.                   court administrators, and      large
lawyers. Court user survey.   eAdequate counterpart
3. Magistrates' School       3. Ditto                       financing guaranteed
graduates render judicial                                  *Pay and other incentives for
decisions of a higher standard,                             judges, court administrators,
law professors, and
government officials
sufficient to attract and
retain adequate staff and to
apply new systems in each
Project institution.
4. The percentage of judicial  4. Data from the MOJ's
decisions in civil cases which  Execution Office
are effectively enforced
increases substantially.
5. The inspection of justice    5. Interviews with key
system operations is carried   informants such as
out more transparently and    representatives of the MOJ,
effectively.                 the HCJ, Judges, and the Bar.
Reports on performance of
judges and judicial officers
prepared by Judicial
Inspectors' Office. Court user
survey.
6. The commercial community 6. Data from the ADR Center
makes good use of
independent Center for the
mediation and arbitration of
commercial disputes.
- 28 -



7. Improved access by       7. Reports by the State
government officials, judges,  Publication Center on the
parliamentarians, legal     availability and dissemination
professionals, the business    of its legal information.
community, the Magistrates'
School, the University of
Tirana's Faculty of Law, and
the public at large to more
reliable, comprehensive and
up-to-date legal information.
8. Evidence of higher       8. Surveys of court users, key
satisfaction among the      informant interviews, court
population generally and the   data, budget data
business community operating
in Albania in particular (when
compared to baseline)
regarding the efficiency,
transparency, effectiveness
and reliability of the legal and
justice systems.
-29 -



~~~~~~~~... ..   =}..... ...   ..  1......   ...  .. I4I. 
Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Capacity of the Faculty of  1. Action program       *Supervision Mission Reports I . Action program of Law
Law of the University of   implemented, including new   .Evaluation mission reports  Faculty implemented on a
Tirana improved for legal    courses taught, teachers    (mdteman  ICR)             timely basis.
training                   trained, including through    (miProgram of rehablitation and
twinning with a European    *Update reports from the PIU. ePansio of rexistin pes
Law Faculty, new teaching                               expanston of existing prelyses
material available, new     *Consultants' reports      implemented on a timely
teaching methods applied,    *Data from Project         basis.
Law Faculty reorganized      institutions, as appropriate
Existing premises
rehabilitated and expanded.
2. Full access to modernized   2. Recommendations and                              2. Recommendation of
court and case management   needed investments                                     experts on improving court
techniques and processes in  implemented in The Supreme                             and case management systems
courts                     Court, the Durres Court of                              are satisfactory and
Appeal and the Tirana District                          subsequently adopted by the
Court; evaluated and revised                           courts.
new procedures then
implemented in all remaining
courts
3. Capacity of the Magistrates' 3. Magistrates' School                             3. Council of Europe
School improved for judicial  provides more courses as well                        continues to provide support
service training           as continuing judicial                                  to the Magistrates' School and
education to judges with less                           expansion into adjoining
than five years of experience,                         premises takes place at an
and improves its legal                                 early date.
research facilities
4. Capacity of Execution   4. Qualifications of execution                          4. Recommendations of
Office within MOJ improved  officers improved by training                          experts on improving
so as to increase the      programs. Recommendations                               enforcement records are
percentage ofjudicial       on restructuring and                                    satisfactory and subsequently
decisions enforced in civil   investments implemented.                             adopted by the government.
cases                                                                              Adequate and sustainable
financing mechanism
designed and implemented.
Better collaboration between
Execution officials and the
police.
5. Capacity improved of    5. Qualification of inspection                           5. Recommendations of
officials carrying out     officers improved by training                            experts on judicial inspection
inspection of operations of the programs. Recommendations                           are satisfactory and
justice system              on restructuring and                                    subsequently adopted by the
investments implemented.                                government.
- 30 -



6. ADR Center for          6. Professional mediators and                          6. Modern legislative
commercial disputes fully    arbitrators adequately trained                       framework for mediation and
operational and professionally and outreach program                               arbitration enacted. Business
staffed                    implemented.                                           community uses services of
ADR Center. Government
respects independent status of
Center.
7. Ready access provided to   7. Dissemination strategy for                       7. Publication and indexing
up-to-date laws, regulations   legal information                                  of system operated by State
and important jurisprudence  implemented. State                                   Publication Center is reliable
in electronic and printed  Publication Center staff                               and up-to date
forms and capacity built to   trained.
ensure the regular
consolidation of laws and
regulations.
-31 -



Project Components i      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Legal Education at     1. US$1.6 million          *Progress reports (quarterly)
Faculty of Law of University                         *Disbursement reports
of Tirana                                             (quarterly)
* - faculty development                              *Audit reports (annually)
* - institutional strengthening                      *Supervision mission reports
* - preparation and supply of                        sEvaluation mission reports
textbooks and
training/research materials                          (mid-term and ICR)
*- provision of TA                                   *Update reports from the PIU
*- provision of furmiture and                        eConsultants'Reports
equipment
*- rehabilitation of existing
premises
*- expansion of existing
premises
2. Court and Case         2. US$2.0 million
Management
*- TA
*- Equipment, including
hardware and software
3. Justice System Training at 3. US$550,000
the Magistrates' School
*- continuous judicial
education
*- training for court
administrators
*- TA for specific courses
*- material needs for library,
computer lab. and moot
court
4. Enforcement of Decisions 4. US$1.0 million
in Civil Cases
*- TA for training
*- material support
- 32 -



5. Inspection of Justice   5. US$650,000
System Operations
*- TA
*- material support
6. Mediation and           6. US$750,000
Arbitration of Commercial
Disputes
*- TA for training
*- material support, including
renting or purchase of ADR
Center premises
7. Dissemination of Legal   7. US$1.45 million
Information
*- TA for training
*- material support
8. Project Management      8. US$500,000
*- TA for training
*- consultants' fees
*- material support
*-survey expenses
- 33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.60 million
IMPROVEMENTS IN LEGAL EDUCATION AT THE FACULTY OF LAW OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF TIRANA
Awareness of the urgent need to improve legal education in Albania is shared by those directly involved,
namely law students, teachers, and Faculty administrators, as well as by others interested in improving the
rule of law and economic development in Albania. To the extent that those with improved legal education
take up positions, or otherwise interact, with key legal and justice system institutions, the capacity of these
institutions will improve.
Both local and international experts have confirmed the need for fundamental reform of the Faculty of Law
of the University of Tirana. Based on these experts' assessments, a cornprehensive action program has
been prepared by a working group at the Faculty of Law to address current problems and needs in the
Faculty in respect of its administration, student enrollment policy, equipment, library, curriculum, teaching
staff, teaching methodology, incentive system for faculty members, premises, and financial management
system over the next three years. This program, discussed with, and agreed to by, faculty members and
students, is now being reviewed by the University of Tirana and will soon be submitted to the Government
for formal adoption. It is anticipated that this will occur no later than April 30, 2000.
This component will consist of five principal activities: (i) a faculty development and training program; (ii)
a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Faculty of Law; (iii) a fund for technical assistance
to support preparation of text books and training material; (iv) the provision of adequate equipment for the
Faculty of Law, including a computer lab for students, books and other material for the library, office
technology for the faculty and other staff, and printing equipment for the production of teaching materials;
and (v) the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing premises of the Faculty. This program will be
complemented by a grant of approximately US$500,000 equivalent from the Danish Government.
(i) Faculty development and training (US$150,000)
a)     Twinning arrangementfor training offaculty staff abroad (US$100,000)
Albanian law teachers urgently need to upgrade their qualifications. The required training needed can be
obtained at home, from visiting experts, or abroad, in centers of legal learning. If experts visit Albania,
however, they must try to train their Albanian counterpart(s) in a barren learning environment, cut off from
an adequate law library, their contemporaries in the subject area and relevant sites on the intemet. If, on
the other hand, Tirana's Law Faculty teachers go abroad, they should have access to all three of these
learning resources. Thus, exporting an Albanian teacher for training in his or her field of specialization
offers, in general, more opportunities than importing a foreign expert to Albania for the same purposes.
However, the optimal use of these opportunities does not occur automatically; it requires clearly identified
objectives, careful planning and liaison well in advance, monitoring and assessment during the training
program, and demonstrations of achievement promptly afterwards.
Adequate incentives, clear responsibilities and accountability (on both sides) are critical to ensuring that
training programs abroad are successful. Hence, the program envisages a competitively awarded twinning
- 34 -



arrangement between the Faculty of Law and one or more law faculties in Europe which would undertake
staff training and other requirements.
The Tirana University Faculty of Law will make available a certain number of its teaching staff for periods
in residence at the foreign university's faculty of law. For each Albanian visitor, this faculty would make
available a mentor of appropriate expertise and would furnish appropriate support, ranging from office and
residential space to secretarial assistance, computer access and library privileges. The mentor will be well
qualified both in the visitor's subject matter and in classroom teaching, and the plan for the visit will
provide for both training in teaching by doing and the enhancement of subject-matter expertise through
directed research and networking. Achievement in these areas will be demonstrated by one or more public
lectures and a publishable article or research paper delivered within a reasonable time after the Albanian
law teacher returns to the University of Tirana Faculty of Law. This, in turn, will contribute to more
Albanian legal text books.
b)     Technical Assistance to Support Twinning (US$50,000)
The teachers at the Faculty of Law are not only inadequately trained in teaching methods and in substantive
subject matter; they are also seriously shorthanded. And the above-mentioned faculty training program
abroad will only exacerbate that shortfall for the next few years, especially during foreign training which
lasts longer than a few weeks.
Given the already high demands on current staff, reassigning the absentee's courses to others on the staff is
not an option. Therefore, while teachers are on foreign training courses, the teaching staff of the Faculty
will need outside reinforcement, either from Albanian lawyers otherwise employed or from foreign visitors.
Such reinforcement will not be easy to obtain, given the scarcities of competent Albanian substitutes,
Albanian-speaking foreign professors, and sufficiently competent translators in Albania. Hence, there will
be linmits at any one time to the extent of the Law Faculty's training program. There are now twenty-three,
full-time, teachers at the Faculty of Law, leaving ten full-time positions vacant. From a staff of this size,
and in this condition, it is anticipated that no more than three full-time teachers will be undergoing foreign
training at once. Additional teachers might be detached for shorter visits, but only in the event they can still
teach their courses in the relevant semester.
To ensure that the teaching of all subjects continues while full-time teachers are on external training,
preference will be given to attracting legal experts from the small pool of well-trained and capable
Albanians who are currently employed outside the Faculty of Law. In addition, however, one or more
foreign law professors may be needed as well. Foreigners will preferably be Albanian speaking but, if not,
they will need to be teamed with a qualified legal translator. The Project will finance short-term technical
assistance contracts for local and international experts (including qualified translators, if needed) to fill
temporary all teaching positions at the Faculty of Law which are occasioned by extemal training under the
Faculty's twining arrangement.
(ii) Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Faculty of Law (US$50,000)
To address weak administrative and managerial skills at the Faculty of Law, the Project will fund a number
of experts to strengthen the Faculty's organizational, administrative and financial management capacities.
Emphasis will be provided on the transfer of knowledge to permanent managers and administrators of the
Faculty. This program will be augmented by the services of a technical advisor on administrative matters
who will be seconded to the Faculty of Law from a Danish University for some months and financed on a
grant basis by the Danish Government.
- 35 -



fiii) Support for text book preparation and teaching material (US$100,000)
The Project will provide funding to hire consultants (law professors and other legal experts) to prepare
Albanian legal teaching materials of high quality.
riv) Material supportfor the Faculty of Law (US$200,000)
This Project sub-component will finance a number of urgent investments for the Faculty of Law, ranging
from office equipment for faculty staff, a computer laboratory and internet access for students, as well as
investments in the library, equipment to print teaching materials and other material needs.
(v) Rehabilitation and expansion of the premises of the Faculty of Law (US$1 million)
This Project sub-component will finance civil works for the rehabilitation and expansion on the existing
Law Faculty building. Based on a recent feasibility study of initial plans to rehabilitate and expand the
Faculty's existing premises, all projected space requirements (including staff offices, classrooms, library
facilities, moot court, etc.) for a student population of 650 can be readily accommodated on the current site
within a budget of US$1 million.
Project Component 2 - US$4.20 million
STRENGTHENING OF THE JUDICIARY
(i) Improvements in Court and Case management systems (US$2 million)
The Albanian Government in general, and its judiciary in particular, recognize serious weaknesses in the
effective functioning of the Albanian judicial system.   Project goals include imnprovements in the
administration of courts and in the management of cases to achieve a more efficient and transparent judicial
process, thereby better ensuring fairness and justice to all court users. A diagnostic assessment is now
underway which will provide a detailed analysis of the existing court and case management operations of
the Tirana District Court, the Durres Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court.
On the basis of this analysis, a detailed set of recommrendations will be prepared on each aspect referred to
below, for imnplementation over the next four years. These recommendations will fall into two categories:
policy reforms (revision of court administration and case processes and procedures) to improve court and
case management systems; and specific investments in goods and services (technical assistance) needed to
implement the reforms effectively and efficiently.
The assessment will review and propose reforms and/or investments in the following areas:
(a)    the procedures and facilities in Albanian courts for handling cases, from commencement of
lawsuits to their conclusion, including the roles of judges and court officers therein;
(b)    the recording of evidence at trials;
(c)    the organization of court staff and their work, including methods by which staff at all levels are
hired, fired, trained and promoted;
(d)    the division of labor between judicial and administrative functions;
(e)    the organization and operation of court filing systems;
(f)    the automation of court systems;
(g)    the flow of information between various court levels;
(h)    the procedures and facilities for the publication of court judgments and decisions;
- 36 -



(i)   the procedures and facilities for the enforcement of such judgments and decisions;
(j)   the process of budget preparation at court level, including the inter-action of courts' financial staff
with the central court budget office;
(k)   the functioning of the central court budget office;
(1)   the intersection of personnel management (Ministry of Justice) and financial management (Central
Budget Office of the Judiciary); and
(m)   the legislative/regulatory regime for the administration of courts, including budget and financial
requirements; personnel management; and institutional responsibility for the enforcement of
judicial decisions.
The Credit will provide funding to help implement the recommendations at the court level. At the first
stage (the pilot stage) the recommendations will be implemented in the Supreme Court and the two other
courts. The Project will fnance technical assistance, training, equipment, and other costs related to the
effective implementation of the recommendations. The second stage, the national roll-out of the program to
include all courts in Albania, will only be implemented after the pilot has been adequately evaluated and,
based on actual experience, the recommendations have been fine-tuned. Training of court administrators
will be closely coordinated with related programs being undertaken and planned by USAID and the COE.
(ii) Justice System Education (US$550,000)
Judicial training has much improved since the establishment of the Magistrates' School in 1997. So far,
however, this School has focused its limited resources and expertise mainly on providing a three-year
training program to recent graduates of the University of Tirana's Faculty of Law who have opted for
careers as future judges. While such a linmited focus has been justifiable given the lack of experience of the
School, it is time to provide much needed training to existing judges. The Magistrates' School, in close
collaboration with the Supreme Court, is preparing mandatory training courses for existing judges, starting
with those who have less than five years ofjudicial experience, as well as courses for court administrators.
The COE, ABA-Ceeli, and OSCE are also involved in assisting the Magistrates' School. Of inmnediate
priority is the expansion of the School's existing premises into the five immediately adjoining classrooms.
The COE has developed a program for the expenditure of some US$3 million equivalent for the School in
the next three years. ABA-Ceeli and OSCE are providing technical assistance, particularly in respect of
teaching positions. In the absence of a strategic plan for the School, identification of financing gaps is not
possible. However, there is reluctance to develop such a plan until the issue of expanded premises is
resolved.
The Project will allocate a modest amount of funding to the School, primarily to help the design and
delivery of priority training courses to existing judges. The Credit will fund: (i) technical assistance to help
establish priority courses, such as on intellectual property, international private law, mediation and
arbitration, court and case management, and legal information; (ii) local and foreign consultants to set up a
course for court administrators; (iii) some of the start up costs to prepare teaching materials; and (iv)
investments in the School's library and other material needs.
Actual allocation of the funds will be closely coordinated with the COE, ABA-Ceeli and OSCE as well as
with USAID.
(iii) Strengthening the Enforcement of Judicial Decisions (US$1 million)
Enforcement of civil judgments is one of the weakest aspects of the Albanian judicial system. Although
- 37 -



enforcement officials are technically under the authority of the MOJ, in all practical respects they answer to
the senior-most judge in the court where they are housed. The Government is, however, to consolidate
MOJ responsibility for enforcement.
An interagency working group, with representation from the judiciary and the Execution Office under the
MOJ, is 'carrying out a preliminary assessment of the existing weaknesses of the system of enforcement of
judgments in civil cases and will make recommendations by way of an action program to address them.
This working group will be assisted by international experts. The Project will provide fumding for
appropriate technical assistance, training of enforcement officers and equipment needs.
(1v) Strengthening of Inspection Services within the Justice System (US$650,000)
The Government established the Judicial Inspectors' Office (the "Office") in 1997 to play a significant role
in helping to ensure the quality and integrity of Albania's judicial system. The organization and functioning
of the Office is now regulated by the "Regulation for the Organization and Functioning of the High Council
of Justice". However, the functioning of this Office still leaves much to be desired. And in addition, a
department of the MOJ dealing with judicial inspection still exists as well. Hence, a fundamental review of
the judicial inspection function is a first task to be undertaken. This is planned during the first half of
2000. On the completion of this review, a detailed program of technical assistance, training/study tours and
investments will be prepared to help imnplement agreed reforms. The Danish Government has indicated its
intention to complement this effort by providing matching funds on a grant basis.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.75 million
MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION OF COMMERCIAL DISPUTES
The Government has shepherded the recent establishment of a free-standing, independent, Center for the
Out-of-Court Settlement of Commercial Disputes (the "Center"). The Center will handle voluntary and
court-referred mediation and arbitration cases and will ideally provide a credible alternative to present
efforts of the courts to resolve commercial disputes. The legal, institutional, administrative, organizational,
training, educational and physical requirements of the Center have been agreed.
The Center will:
(a)    remain unrelated to any existing institution to avoid any perception of bias against any party;
(b)    provide both mediation and arbitration services;
(c)    be exclusively focused on comnmercial disputes and staffed by people with experience in the private
sector;.
(d)    have an initial panel of some 10 highly respected professionals who will be trained as mediators
and arbitrators;
(e)    have a Director appointed with responsibility for promoting mediation and arbitration and for
administering the Center's programs;
(f)    ensure that the Director has an administrative assistant;
(g)    ensure that at least two Albanian trainers are available to train future mediators and arbitrators;
(h)    ensure that training to highest possible levels will be provided to its staff and to all of its mediators
and arbitrators;
(i)    be allocated its own office, with sufficient space for the Director and administrative assistant, and
at least one large room for conducting arbitration and mediation proceedings, one smaller caucus
room and a reception area, with all rooms and areas being appropriately equipped; and
(j)    carry out an extensive outreach/consumer education program.
-38 -



Although it is anticipated that the Center will become self-financing overtime, it will need budgetary
support from the Government in the initial stages. Public support for the Center is justified, however, due
to the public benefits which are anticipated will flow from the Center, including: (i) the encouragement of
early settlement of commercial conflicts; (ii) the encouragement of non-coercive, private, dispute
settlement; (iii) improvement in the quality of conflict resolution; (iv) reduction in the cost of dispute
resolution; and (iv) reduction in court case-loads.
The Government will employ its best efforts to ensure that a satisfactory new statute to regulate mediation
and arbitration centers will be enacted not later than September 30, 2000.
Project Component 4 - US$1.45 million
DISSEMINATION OF LEGAL INFORMATION
There are five principal shortcomings of Albania's system of providing up-to-date legal information to
users. (i) There are only a limited number of copies of the Official Gazette printed. (ii) There is no
consolidation of laws, regulations and judicial decisions which is published officially. (iii) Published legal
materials are neither indexed nor searchable. (iv) There are significant delays in the delivery of all relevant
publications. (v) There is a significant number of laws, regulations, and judicial decisions which have never
been published.
To begin to address some of these problems, Parliament enacted a new law in June 1999 so as restructure
the system for collecting, publishing and distributing laws, regulations and essential jurisprudence in
Albania. Official publication responsibilities were transferred from the Parliamentary Publication Office to
a so-called State Publication Center housed in the Ministry of Justice. The new Center also exercises
control over the means of dissemination and appropriate pricing structures.
The Publication Center must publish every normative act as well as Albania's most important judicial
decisions. The Center will be the central point for the gathering, ordering, and publishing of Albanian
treaties, laws and regulations and will start building an electronic database for the efficient dissemination of
this information. The new publishing law recognizes the importance of including all laws and regulations
of the central government in the database.
Tlhis Project component will support the design and implementation of an efficient system to disseminate all
legal information gathered at, and published by, the Publication Center.   Reforms will enhance the
transparency of legal information, permit efficient, timely, publication and then rapid dissemination of laws
and regulations after passage, provide for centralized information storage, add value to the information to
perrnit effective retrieval from the database, and be relatively cost effective.
The program will comprise:
(a)    the construction of a centralized database in electronic form;
(b)    the entering of all laws, regulations, and judicial decisions into this database;
(c)    the design and employment of an index system to enhance the usability of the database;
(d)    no restrictions, other than marginal cost, on the ability of any citizen or private publisher to gain
access to these texts; and
(e)    the encouragement of repackaging of the infornation by the private sector.
Creating Albania's Centralized Automated Legal Information System; To address the shortcomings of the
Albanian legal information infrastructure, the Project will assist Albania in creating an electronic
centralized legal information system. The System will connect various government institutions in Albania
- 39 -



to a centralized database, containing all relevant laws and judicial decisions. As the central repository of
legal informnation in Albania, all relevant legal materials will be aggregated and updated with ease, and
interested individuals will be able to search electronically for specific infornation. Through this system,
legal information will be capable of being disseminated in both electronic and in printed format.
There are several steps necessary for the creation of a comprehensive legal infornation infrastructure in
Albania. First, the Center will create a local area network within its offices that will support a centralized
database. Second, a centralized database will be purchased or developed by the Center. Third, the Center
will obtain necessary information to populate the database. Fourth, legal information will be put into
electronic format. Fifth, the electronic legal information and "value added" informnation about the legal
materials will be inputted into the central database.
Pricing of Publications. Pricing will be based on the marginal cost. The fixed cost of the database,
printing, and printing presses will not be factored into the price charged to the public. Access to legal
information is a public good and the dissemination of legal information is an important govemmental
function the full costs of which will not be fully shifted to the consumer. However, the cost of fax lines,
mail, paper, and any storage will be factored into the relevant price as the marginal cost of dissemination.
Accordingly, the Publication Center will charge a different price for legal information depending upon its
mode of transmission.
Project Component 5 - US$0.50 million
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project implementation will be guided by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the MOJ. The PIU
staff and its training will be financed under the Project, as well as priority equipment needs and incremental
operating costs. Also, under this component will be funded the required Project contribution to the cost of
the annual audit of all IDA Credits in Albania. In addition, surveys will be funded to measure Project
performance under the Project's legal education and judicial strengthening components. Finally, short-term
consultancy services needed by the PIU may be funded as well.
Project Component 6 - US$0.50 million
UNALLOCATED
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Legal Education                                          0.20          1.60         1.80
Strengthening of Judiciary                               0.05         4.20          4.25
Mediation and Arbitration of Commercial Disputes         0.05         0.75          0.80
Dissemination of Legal Information                       0.15          1.45         1.60
Project Management                                       0.05         0.50          0.55
Unallocated                                              0.00         0.50          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      0.50         9.00          9.50
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs              0.50         9.00         9.50
Total Financing Required              0.50         9.00         9.50
Goods                                                      0.20          3.00         3.20
Works                                                      0.20          1.00         1.20
Services                                                   0.05          4.34         4.39
Incremental                                                0.05          0.16         0.21
Unallocated                                                0.00          0.50         0.50
Total Project Costs     0.50          9.00         9.50
Total Financing Required     0.50          9.00          9.50
- 41 -



Annex 4
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
NOT APPLICABLE
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
NOT APPLICABLE
-43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods, works, and services would be done in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
The World Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works, and the standard forms of contract
and request for proposals will be used under the Project. Any goods, works or services not financed by the
World Bank will be procured in accordance with the public procurement regulations of the country or the
co-fnancing institution's procurement regulations. A general procurement notice is now in the process of
being published in the United Nations' Development Business.
The Coordination Council will be responsible for the Project's overall policy direction, project
imnplementation and progress monitoring. This Council comprises the Minister of Justice, the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court, the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of
Tirana, and the Director of the Magistrates' School. A Project Implementation Unit (PIM) will carry out
the day-to-day implementation of the Project. It is located in the Ministry of Justice, and reports directly to
the Coordination Council. Once fully staffed, the PLU is to consist of a Director responsible for overall
Project management and coordination, a legal reform coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial
management specialist. The PIU has been formally established and GOA is now in the process of selecting
qualified consultants to fill the PIU positions. To ensure successful implementation of the Project, the
procurement capacity of the PIJ needs to be strengthened. The Government will retain the services of a
qualified and experienced procurement advisor for at least the first six to 12 months of Project
implementation.
The Association in collaboration with the Government is in the process of updating the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) which was completed in 1997. The new CPAR is expected to be
drafted by April 2000. The conclusions of the 1997 assessment report are generally positive. The
institutions in the public sector are well established, but are relatively inexperienced. The Public
Procurement Law is quite comprehensive and transparent and is promoting economic and competitive
practices. However, there is a general lack of awareness about its contents and application and a lack of
strong support and supervision by the Public Procurement Agency for implementation of this law. The
main weaknesses highlighted in the CPAR are: inadequate capacity and capability in the country, for which
important constraints remain the inability to recruit qualified staff and limited available training; and the
lack of country standard procurement documents and manuals. The updated CPAR will recommend a
series of actions to overcome institutional and system weaknesses. The implementation of the action plan
prepared under the updated CPAR will further improve the procurement environment and enhance the
transparency and accountability of procurement actions and decisions.
There are 34 Bank financed projects under implementation in Albania. The overall procurement
performance under these projects has been generally satisfactory except some cases of procurement delays,
which are mainly attributable to the inexperience of procurement staff and inadequate coordination among
the agencies involved in project implementation. In some cases, subjective interpretation of bids has also led
to long delays and the perception of a non- transparent environment.
-44 -



The Project launch workshop will be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods, and Schedule
Activities        Type  Method  No. of  Estimated   Preparation of  Invitation/   Evaluation/    Con-          Contract
Con-   Contract       BDIRFP/    GPN/S-PN    Recommend-    tract    Completion
tracts    Value         TORI                     ation Award   Signing
_______________________ _    _____  ________  Shortlist
1. I Consulting services for  CS    QCBS     1      1,000,000      7/2000        10/2000       312001       5/2001      6/2004
case and court management,
related training, preparation of
technical Specs. of the bidding
documents for court automation
(first phase: pilot courts and
second phase: national roll-out
of the program)
1.2 Consulting services to
develop and deliver training  CS    QCBS      1      280,000        1/2001        4/2001        8/2001       11/2001    11/2002
programs on intellectual
property, international private
law, mediation, arbitration and
court administration
(Magistrates' School)
1.3 Consulting services to
implement the action program
for reform and rehabilitation of   CS    QCBS  1     300,000        9/2000       12/2000        3/2001       6/2001      3/2002
enforcenirt offices ard deliver
the training program
1.4 Consulting services to
design and deliver training
programs on judicial inspection
and functioning of High     CS    QCBS        I      450,000       11/2000        312001        6/2001       9/2001      9/2002
Council
1.5 Consultarts to prepare
bidding document for legal
information system
CS    SIC        1      170,000        1/2001                      8/2001      10/2001      1/2002
1.6 Short-term coordinator for   CS    CQ    I       90,000       3/2000                      5/2000         6/2000    6/2003
the startup implementation of
legal information strategy
1.7 Consultants for
dissemination of legal      CS    QCBS       1       360,000      6/2000         9/2000       12/2000        2/2001     2/2004
infornation and training
1.8 Short-term consultant to
strengthen the management   CS    QCBS    1          184,000      4/2000        6/2000         8/2000        8/2000     7/2001
capacity of the PIU                        .
._____________                                       ($2.834m)
1.9 Training of PIU staff  T      SS       multi   80,000
over 4
years
1I.10 TA to support the     CS    CQ       multi.    50,000
twinning arrangement for the                over 3
Faculty of Law                             years I_I _I_I_I_I
-45 -



1.11 Twinring for the Faculty    CS    QCBS     1      250,000        12/2000        4/2001        7/2001       10/2001      10/2003
of Law, including faculty
traiinmg, preparation of
teaching materials and
institutional strengthening
1.12 Training of staffin the  T       SS       2       45,000         8/2000                       12/2000      2/2001       7/2001
office of High Council of                       2      45,000         8/2001                       12/2001       2/2002      7/2002
Justice and study tours
1.13 Consulting services for  CS    QCBS        1      750,000        10/2000        1/2001        4/2001       7/2001       7/2003
management of the Center for
ADR
.____ _____ _____ ____   ____ __   __ 1($1  .22m )
1.14 Survey of qualifications of  CS    CQ     I       30,000       12/2003         1/2004        3/2004        4/2004      6/2004
Faculty of Law graduates
I.15 Survey ofcourt users    CS    CQ          1       30,000        9/2003        11/2003        1/2004        3/2004      5/2004
1.16 Project audit           CS    LCS         1       20,000        4/2001                       6/2001        7/2001      7/2003
______________________ _                                                             .______   ($0.08m)
2.1 Procurement of comnputers,   G   ICB       2       740,000        9/2000        2/2001         6/200 1      10/2001      3/2002
printers, office equipment,                                           9/2002         2/2002         6/2002      10/2002      3/2003
teaching facilities (law school,
magistrates, inspector's)
2.2 Procurement of vehicles
and equipment for MOJ's       G       ICB       1      200,000        12/2000        2/2001        5/2001        7/2001      10/2001
Execution Office to strengthen                  1      500,000        2/2001         5/2001         8/2001      11/2001      3/2002
the enforcemt ofjudicial
decisions in civil cases
2.3 Procurement of computer
hardware and software for legal
information system (startup and   G    IS       I       90,000        5/2000         8/2000        11/2000      12/2000      5/2001
roll-out)                             ICB       I      910,000        2/2002        10/2002         2/2003       5/2003      12/2003
2.4 Procurement ofequipment
for pilot courts, such as
recording machines, filing
cabinets, microphones and     G        IS       3      200,000        6/2000         9/2000        12/2000       2/2001      7/2001
office equipment, etc.                                                6/200 1
8/2003
2.5 Procurement of computer
hardware, software and related
itemos for national roll-out of
automation of courts          G       ICB       I      900,000        3/2002         6/2002        10/2002      12/2002      12/2003
2.6 Procurement of office
equipment of the PIU
______________________    G  IS  1  50,000  3/2000    4/2000         4/2000       4/2000       6/2000
________________________ .____,___._                                                                     ($3.49m )
3.1 Rehabilitation of premises    W   ICB      1      1,060,000       12/2000        2/2001         6/2001       9/2001      9/2002
______________________   .______  .___________  __________   ___($1.06m )
-46-



4.1 Incremental Operating      SOE             186,000
Costs (telephone, fax,        (over 4        (60,000 for
consumables, etc. and         years)         office
consultants fees for project   SIC for       expenses,
director, legal expert,       consult        126,000 for
procurement specialist,                      staff) ($500
financial management                         per month for
specialist, secretary/interpreter,           consult.
driver in the PIU)                           $250 per
month for
staff)
Total                     _        __                                                                      9,000,000
QCBS         - Quality Cost Based Selection
CQ           - Selection based on consultants' qualifications
LCS          - Least Cost Selection
SIC          - Selection for Individual Consultants
ICB          - International Comnpetitive Bidding
IS           - International Shopping
NS           - National Shopping
SOE          - Statement of Expenditure
SS           - Sole source
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods: All contracts for goods estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent each will be subject to
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent will be through International Shopping (IS). The aggregate amount for IS is US$150,000.
There is no national shopping under the Project.
Works: There is only one works contract estimated to cost about US$1,060,000 equivalent which will be
procured through ICB.
Consulting services, twinning, surveys, training and study tours will be procured through Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) or a selection process based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ), as defined
in the above table entitled "Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods, and Schedule". Selection of
individual consultants will be by a competitive process, in accordance with provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of
the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Since
single-source selection of consultants lacks transparency, does not provide benefits of competition in
respect of quality and cost, and could encourage unacceptable practices, this method will be used only in
exceptional cases, such as training abroad and study tours. In all other instances, the PIU will provide
justification for single-source selection and the Association will review and decide on a case-by-case basis.
-47 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             1.26           0.00           0.00           0.00           1.26
(1.06)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.06)
2. Goods                            3.48            0.00           0.34           0.00           3.82
(3.28)         (0.00)         (0.34)         (0.00)         (3.62)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           4.18           0.00           4.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.13)         (0.00)         (4.13)
4. Miscellaneous (incremental       0.00            0.00           0.24           0.00           0.24
operating cost
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.19)         (0.00)         (0.19)
Total                            4.74            0.00           4.76           0.00           9.50
l_________________________         (4.34)          (0.00)         (4.66)         (0.00)         (9.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the PIU, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to managing the Proj ect.
- 48 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
, -,~~~~~~~~~~~. .,  ...........
A. Firms            3.76      0.00      0.00       0.02      0.20       0.17      0.00       4.15
(3.56)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.02)    (0.20)    (0.17)    (0.00)    (3.95)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.17      0.00       0.17
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.17)    (0.00)    (0.17)
Total   3.76      0.00      0.00       0.02      0.20       0.34      0.00       4.32
(3.56)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.02)    (0.20)     (0.34)    (0.00)    (4.12)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB and the first contract under IS will be subject to prior review by IDA. Consultants' contracts
estimated to cost over US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 for individuals, as well as all sole-source
contracts, and all TORs and methods for selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of value, shall be
subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by IDA's supervision
missions or by focused procurement review or audit missions. The IDA mnissions will review at least one
out of five contracts which are subject to post review. For both in-country and abroad training, the CV's of
the trainees, the course content, fees, per diems, transportation expenses, and study tours will be subject to
IDA's prior review. Incremental operating costs will be discussed and agreed annually with IDA.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                       Over 200                   ICB                        1
2. Goods                     Less than 100                 IS                      0.05
100 or more                 ICB                      3.27
3. Services                    (Indiv.) 20                Other                    0.17
(Firm) 50           QCBS/CQ/LCS/SS                  3.96
4. Total                                                                            8.4
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     8.4
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit will be administered by the PIU. The Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed over four years. IDA will finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services,
surveys, studies and training; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports of goods, 100% of local
ex-factory costs for locally manufactured goods and 80% of local expenditures for other goods procured
locally, (iii) 85% of civil works; and (iv) 90% of incremental operating costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Technical assistance                       3.79                         100
Goods                                      3.52                   100 foreign/80 local
Works                                      1.00                          85
Unallocated                                0.50
Incremental operating costs                0.19                          90
Total Project Costs                        9.00
Total                                      9.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
(a)    Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
(b)   Works: contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
(c)   Consulting firms: contracts estimated at less than US$50,000 equivalent
(d) Individual consultants: contracts less than US$20,000 equivalent
(e)   Training and incremental operating costs: all contracts
Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the PIU and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project imnplementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be US$700,000, representing approximately four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw
US$350,000 representing 50% of the authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the Credit
Account and any outstanding Special Comrnitments amount to SDR 2.5 million, the Borrower may
withdrawn the remaining amount of US$700,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The commercial bank holding the SA will be chosen on the basis of open comnpetitive bidding. In order to
be permitted to bid, a commercial bank must:
(a)    be financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, audited by an internationally
recognized audit firm,
- 51 -



(b)    have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c)    have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit and
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d)    be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
(e)   issue a Co-mfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA will not be set, seized or
otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
(f)    be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by IDA, including regular
statements, and any other information that may be considered necessary; and
(g)    charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
Financial Management
General: The newly established PIU in the Ministry of Justice will be responsible for the overall financial
management of the Project. The PIU will, amongst other things, oversee and coordinate the Project,
manage Project expenditures from the Special Account, ensure compliance with the Development Credit
Agreement, and maintain the Project's financial records.
Accounting systems: The PIU accountant-with the assistance of a short term Accounting Consultant--
established an accounting and financial management system that meets IDA's minimum requirements.
Work so far included: (i) design and implementation of the Project accounting and financial management
system; (ii) drafting of the accounting and financial Manual; and (iii) computerization of the accounting
and financial system with an appropriate integrated software. The PIU will maintain this system and
further upgrade it according to a time-bound action plan, to ensure proper management of the accounting,
reporting and financing aspects of the Project according to IDA's requirements. The upgrade includes the
development of the system so that is will be able to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by IDA for PMR-based disbursements.
Staffing. The full-time PIU accountant will be responsible for the accounting and financial activities.
Disbursements Mechanism: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association. A
Special Account will be opened and managed by the PIU at a bank acceptable to the Association.
Internal Controls. The accounting and financial Manual, prepared by the PIU accountant with the support
of the short term consultant, will detail, amongst other things, the operational procedures and controls.
Audit Arrangements. The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable by the Association. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be carried out in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project
and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both audit of financial transaction and an
assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the review of the internal control
mechanisms. The PIU will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and
information required by the auditor for the purpose of the audit. Auditors will be appointed under a project
portfolio-wide basis agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
Reporting Arrangements. In addition to the subrnission of annual audited financial statements, the PIU
will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                            25
First Bank mission (identification)              12/01/97                     12/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                     04/15/99                      12/03/99
Negotiations                                    01/15/2000                    02/09/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2000
Prepared by:
Sandra Bloemenkamp, Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
. iam. -":pe:'i'lit:
Sandra Bloemenkamp                Team Leader
Eric Haythome                     Legal and Judicial Reform
John Lockhart                     Judicial Reform
Madalene O'Donnell                Operations Analyst
Lingzhi Xu                        Procurement
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani             Sr. Counsel
Junko Funahashi                   Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Sr. Disbursement Officer
Harbaksh Sethi                    Procurement Adviser
John Hegarty                      Regional Financial Management Advisor
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist
Mohammad Ashraf                   Procurement Adviser
Ninifa Campos                     Program Assistant
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA. Legal and Judicial Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Available
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Country Economic Memorandum - Albania Beyond the Crisis, Report No. 18658-ALB, December
1998
*   Back-to-Office Reports and Aide-memoires of January 1998, May 1998, February 1999, October
1999 and December 1999
C. Other
*   A Study of the Justice System in Albania, Scott Carlson, April 1997
*   Functional Review of the Albanian Ministry of Justice, Metametrics Inc., February 2000
* Assessment and Reform of Albanian Legal Information System, Chicago Kent College of Law, Illinois
Institute of Technology, February 2000
*   Legal Education in Albania, Findings and Conclusions, Professor John Paul Jones, 1999-2000
*   Interim Report on the Development of the Commercial Mediation and Arbitration Center in Albania,
Partners for Democratic Change, January 2000
*Including electronic files
-54-



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Closed  7
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                Expected and Actual
Board                                                     Supervision Rating b/               Oribinal Amount in USS Millions            Disbursements Al
D ateU                                                       el   O l_                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                _ _ _ _ _  _
Fiscal                                               Dvlpet Ipeetto
Year  Active Projects                               Develob nent   Pmolemenstion          IBRD           IDA       CanceL    Undisb.       Orig.  Frm Rev'd
ear                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Obiectives  roess
1994     P008260      DURRES WATER SUPPLY                  U                S                   0          11.6           0        2.5        1.49          0
1994     P008269      SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                  S               S                   0          9.6            0        0.4       0.12           0
1995     P008253      HEALTH SERVICES REHA                  S               S   -               0          12.4           0        4.8       5.04           0
1995     P008270      IRRIGATION REHABILITION               S              HS                   0           10            0          0       -1.14          0
1995     P008267      RURAL ROADS                           S               S                   0           15            0        1.1       2.14       -5.52
1995     P008272      TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                  S               S                   0            4            0        1.6        1.45          0
1996     P035787      AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                  S               S                   0            6            0          2       2.12           0
1996     P008271      FORESTRY                              S               S                   0            8            0          5       2.27           0
1996     P036060      NATIONAL ROADS                        S               S                   0           25            0       15.2       10.41          0
1996     P034491      POWER TRANSM. & DIST                 HU               U                   0         29.5            0       18.7      19.62           0
1998     P040818      DURRESPORT                            S               U                   0           17            0       15.9       8.75           0
Ul     1998     P045312      HEALTH RECOVERY                       S               S                   0            17           0        16.8       6.68          0
1998     P040975      LAND DEVELOPMENT                      S               S                   0           10            0        9.8       3.06           0
1998     P051602      PRIVATE NDUSTRY REC                   S               S                   0          10.3           0          7       6.94           0
1998     P054384      RECOVERY PROG. TA                     S               S                   0            5            0        2.3        1.14          0
1999     P051309      COMMUNITY WORKS                       S               S                   0           14            0       12.4        1.14          0
1999     P043178      IRRIG. & DRAINAGE 11                  S               S                   0           24            0       23.3       -0.56          0
1999     P051310      MICROCREDIT                           S               S                   0           12            0       11.4        -0.6          0
1999     P055160      SAC                                   S               S                   0           45            0       25.6      24.86           0
2000     P068853      EMG ROAD REPAIR                                                           0          13.7           0       13.6          0           0
2000     P066491      WS URGENT REHAB.                                                          0           10            0         10          0           0
Total Active Projects:                            21                                                     309.1            0      199.4      94.93        -5.52
Note: Public Expenditure Support project is not included because fully disbursed in FY99, and as such, considered inactive.
Community Works project and its supplemental project are counted as one operation.
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Albania
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2/15/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Paric
1998 AAP                 0   28.5     0     0    0   7.89      0     0
1999 SEFEurotech        1.2     0     0     0   1.2      0     0     0
1999 SEFFEFADBank        0   1.01     0     0    0       0     0     0
Total Portfolio:        1.2  29.51    0     0   1.2  7.89      0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 Patos Marinza      30      0     0    50
2000 NCB                 0      2      0     0
Total Pending Commitrnent:   30      2     0    50
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Euroot  &                                                   9117199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central      Low-
Albania       Asia   Income        Development dlamond'
1998
Pooulation. mid-year lllmionsl                            3.4        473       gO8                   Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita /Atlas method. USS)                        810      2190       1.710
G NP (Atlas method. USS billions]                         2.7      1.0.9      1.557
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%l                                            0.8        0.1        1.1
Labor force 1%)                                           1.2        0.6        1.5      GNP                 *              Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate [latest vear available. 1992-98)                                    capita           $.I o         enrn.tment
Povertv (% of DoDulation below national Dovertv line)      ..          ..        ..
Urban oopulation (% of total oooulation)                   38         68         58
Life exnectancv at birth fveats)                           72         69         68
Infant mortalitv frer 1. 000 live birthsl                  26         23         38
child mAln,itritinn (% of children under 51                                  .                     Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of Dooulationl                     76          ..        75
Illiteracv 1% of oooulation aae 15+1                        ..         4         14
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-areDoDulation)       107        100        103
Male                                                    106        101       105                    Low-income group
Femate                                                  1D8         99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
EconomIc ratlos*
GDP IUSS billions)                                ..      2.2        2.3        3.0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      .     28.4       16.0       16.0                      Trade
FynnrtR nf nnnds and serni,esl1rlP                ..     15         10.5        9YT
Gross domestic savinoaslGDP                       ..    28.3         -9.1      -6.7
Gross national savinoslGDP                        ..        ..        4.0       9.9
t l,rrent acunt hatannr.lGnP                       .      0.2      -12.1       -R.1 
Interest navments/GDP                             ..      0.0        0.9        0.2      Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    ..        ..      30.9       26.9      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                        ..        ..        7.2       2.2
Present value of debtlGDP                         ..       ..       21.0
Present value of debtlexoorts                     ..        ..      72.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
faverace annual orowth)
GOP                                    1.9      -0.5     -7.0        8.0         ..'Albanla
GNP noer casita                         ..       6.1     -9.1         6.1        ..                  --- Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services           ..    13.6    -29.5          17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment
f% of GDP)                                                                                0
Aoriculture                                       ..    33.2         56.0      54.4
Industrv                                          ..    45.8        23.6       24.5      200
Manufacturino
Services                                          ..    21.0        20.4       21.0        D
Private consumotion                               ..    62.0        97.7       96.5    -100      95    9S    T    98
General covernment consumotion                    ..      9.6        11.4      10.2                       otDI    -GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                     ..    15.6        35.7       32.2
1977.87  1988-98      1997       1998                                                i
laveraoe annual orowthl                                                                  Growth rates of exports and Imports (%    h
Aoriculture                                      2.4      5.5         1.0       5.0      300
Industrv                                         2.2     -8.4       -5.9       12.2
Manufacturino                                   ..        ..          .          .i
Services                                         0.6      0.4      -24.4       11.3    lOt
Private consumotion                               ..      6.1       -9.3       10.1       o z 
General aovernment consumotion                    ..    -3.9       -16.5       -0.6              93   94   95   96   97   98
Gross domestic investment                       -0.6     19.9       -4.1       21.0    -105
Imoorts of noods and services                     ..    16.7       -20.2       16.1     1          -EXports    -*-Imports
Gross national oroduct                            ..      6.5        -8.1       7.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show fouir kev indicators in the countrv (in hold) comnared with its income-oroun averane. If data are missin,. the diamond will
he iscomolete
- 57 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        r
(9S change)
Consumer prices                                                    33.2      21.9     120
Implicit GDP deflator                                              30.8      24.8      80    '
Government finance                                                                     ID
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                         49.2       16.8      20.3        93     94      95     99      97     9
Current budget balance                                  23.7       -8.6       -5.3               -GDP deflator  -0cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -1.7     -12.6     -10.4
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                               1977      1987      1997       1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      311        167       205     1000
Minerals and fuels                                                 46        57
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                        18        22       750
Manufactures                                                       99       122
Total imports (fob)                                      316        685       826             *                         *
Food                                                              164       197       25
Fuel and energy                                                    71        86
Capital goods                                                      99       120        o
as   9s  94   55  9n   a7   98
Exoort Drice index (1993=1001
Imoort orice index (1993=1001                     *.ExpEort.                                                   * Im,rorts
Termc nf Irafte /1993=1001
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
IUSS millions)
Exports of goods and services                            334        239       289       0 -
Imports of goods and services                            336        816       980         -
Resource balance                                          -2       -577      -891
Net income                                                 0         51        65
Net current transfers                                               250       440     -30
Current account balance                                    5       -276      -186     40
Financing items (net)                                      7        303       257     -ro
Changes in net reserves                                  -12        -27       -71
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS milionsots                             342       401
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSSI                         8.0      149.6    151.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US5 millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                706       820
IBRD                                                                0         0                       G:35
IDA                                                              148        220
Total debt service                                                   39        37                                   13 220
IBRD                                            .        ..         0         0
IDA                                            I.        .                    1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                   77         89
Official creditors                                                 46        79                                      C: 64
Private creditors                                                  -1         0
Foreign direct investment                                         42         45                                   0:21
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                       E: 209
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        34        54     A- IBRD                       E - Baiteral
Disbursements                                                     19         64     B- IDA    D - Other mu0tilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                                          19        64
Interest payments                                                   1         1
Net transfers                                                      18        63
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/17/99
-58 -



IBRD 28467R
-1830'                      19000                         190309         .            20000                        2                            2100
'.  .  /  r      FED.             REP.                       YUGOSLAVIA
CRbTIA ?)                                                                                           (,  (SERBIA / MO  TENEGRO)
42'30'             \V                                                                                                                                                       42'30
.""Valbona
E MAES H      E *'      TR     <E
X                        t i~~~~~~~~~~~~~a i Hoti    !      aurrm3        {9
<   ~~~       ,}\  iso~~~~plik    j                                 / A S     
S-.Aodr-      .4t SHKODER                                ,g i                                      /
L
Sh    1 Laqi  Komn  /Lq PUj
ALBANIA                                                                            uk
421000 
o     SELECTED CITIES                                    .\'ZaHI-Re                                                .              /
C     DISTRICT CENTERS                                     ShReng;                      MIR/TE S'g
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           .ez j h                  Kurbneshi
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                             ER
-n-~   RAILROADS                                                              o                                    hk
c-   RIVERS                                           Fushe Kuge        La,
-* *. -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                  ur.si             urrel
-| -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
41030                                                                                                                                                                           0
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                               RES'                                                                   F. Y.R.         5
(o00                                     (,UrIZ                MACEDONIA
41000~~~~~~20                                                                              IRN
9        2020                                          Drr 5                                                      6
ji    t   ...   f *             a~BRAZHD. 
A  cl r i a  t i' c                                                     OIN
0E   p oopodo.b ~a p     4po Po dTh WoooJo
4hobooi00psolo#voMnoo                                                 (a'                         .             .         _             KOR(E              :       LL
______________________f_________                        40 o'                                                  (       C, ovrde         t          -oEEN ~*'             4003)
NETH!           .                         R BELARUS                          >4.u                   \< kTePe,akLu                        G      d
..GERMANY       !    POLAND t.~    s   
(CZECH '~~~~~~~~~*"  UKRAINE~~~~QRD,
r            SL9giCFOA\A -MR         ROMANIA                                                          erit
,p \ b h         . MI, D                                                                          Sa T
I - ,TALY        Ad   y            KULGAR                                                                                                     RE
;' ] -7';S'_I  n ,;  =                                    4            XjVUF~~~~~~~~SARANDE t~
._  S--   '\ )~           ,RRECE~ stz5   'ThRKEY                                                           '- e S. i 
8,3/                                                          1930 9200                                                 20030                        2100'
40,301~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~ A99'



