Report No. PID7896
Project Name                     Albania-Legal, Judicial and Public...
Administration Reform Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           ME - Economic Management
Project                          ALPE57182
Borrower(s)                      The Republic of Albania
Implementing Agency              Policy formulation and coordination
component:
Office of the Prime Minister (to be confirmed)
Ensuring rule of law
component                        Ministry of Justice (MOJ),
Ministry of Institutional Reform (MIR),
Ministry of Education (MOE),
Supreme Court, Magistrates School,
Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana
Public administration
component                        Department of Public Administration (DoPA),
Ministry of Finance (MoF)
Program and policy
implementation component         DoPA
Redress and citizen voice
component                        Office of the Prime Minister (to be confirmed),
Economic Commission of the Parliament (to be
confirmed)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 3, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             February 17, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Effective governance requires institutions capable of both formulating and
implementing public policies as well as engendering legitimacy of those
institutions and the policies they establish. Such institutions must respond
to the demands of the citizenry and elicit the collaboration of that
citizenry in the design and implementation of those policies. They must
provide credible benefits to the citizenry in a way that is recognizably
fair, responsive and equitable. Moreover, they must do so within the
financial and human resource constraints of Albania's economy and public
sector. Public institutions for ensuring such governance capacities include:



(i) those that formulate and coordinate policies and laws (including
Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry
of Economic Cooperation and Trade, the Ministry of Justice, as well as
certain elements of all line Ministries); (ii) those that ensure the rule of
law (the Ministry of Justice, the Judiciary, the Public Prosecutor and the
various police forces, among others); (iii) those whose responsibilities are
to ensure transparent, accountable and effective management of public
resources (the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Department
of Public Administration, the soon to be created Civil Service Commission,
the Supreme Audit Institution, to name the most obvious); (iv) those who are
charged with implementing particular policies and programs (e.g., line
Ministries, autonomous and semi-autonomous budget institutions, regulatory
agencies, local governments, etc.); as well as (v) those responsible for
providing avenues of redress should citizens or public officials have reason
to question whether the public institutions are meeting their mandates (e.g.,
elected officials, the newly created Ombudsman, the Judiciary, the Judicial
Inspectors' Office of the High Council of Justice, and the soon to be created
Civil Service Commission).
The Government's strategy for strengthening the public institutions required
for more effective governance addresses all five of these types of public
institutions: policy formulation and coordination, ensuring the rule of law,
public administration, policy and program implementation, and redress.
Policy formulation and coordination
In order to make policy formulation and coordination more rational and more
responsive to the priorities of the citizenry, the Government's institutional
and public administration reform strategy includes three major initiatives:
(a) strengthening of the functioning of the Council of Ministers; (b)
building capacity within the Parliament to systematically monitor the impacts
of policies and programs mandated under acts of Parliament, including the
annual budget; and (c) establishing guidelines and providing technical
assistance to line Ministries and other public institutions charged with
implementing particular programs and policies, designed to help those
organizational units to enhance citizen involvement in the design and
delivery of public programs and services.
Strengthening of the Council of Ministers will be based on a recently
completed functional review of the Council of Ministers (CoM). It will focus
on (i) rationalizing the management of the policy formulation processes
within the CoM, (ii) building stable professional capacity within the CoM to
provide systematic analyses of policy issues and tradeoffs raised by
legislative and policy proposals, and (iii) providing technical assistance to
the CoM on lessons from worldwide experience with cabinet decision making
arrangements and practices.
Building capacity within the Parliament to systematically monitor the impacts
of policies and programs will be accomplished through: (i) undertaking a
pilot donor-led Impact Monitoring Effort (IME) aimed, in the first instance,
at identifying and publicizing impacts of the institutional and public
administration reform process, and (ii) creating a small technical unit
within the Parliament (e.g., under the Economic Commission of the Parliament)
with capacity to gradually take over this policy impact monitoring
responsibility.
-2-



Enhancing citizen-responsiveness of budget institutions is being accomplished
by: (i) creation and strengthening of an independent Ombudsman (People's
Advocate) reporting directly to Parliament (see "Redress" below); (ii)
creating capacity within the Department of Public Administration to establish
guidelines and provide technical assistance to budget institutions on
enhancing the citizen-responsiveness of their organizations (see "Policy and
Program Implementation" below) ; (iii) the development by line Ministries of
sector strategies that explicitly address means by which their policy and
program implementation efforts can be made more participative (see "Policy
and Program Implementation" below); and (iv) inclusion in the IME of
monitoring of the satisfaction of citizens with their involvement in the
design and implementation of public programs and services.
Ensuring the rule of law
Ensuring the rule of law requires a fully functioning legal and judicial
system. As the CAS describes, this calls for enforcement of the country's
laws and regulations by a competent and independent judiciary, free from
political influence and corruption. To achieve this goal, medium and long-
term institutional reforms are needed, not just within the judiciary, but
throughout the legal system, including:
raising the level of professionalism of judges and other legal professionals
through training and higher academic standards;
rehabilitation and equipping of courts, and provision of security measures to
ensure the judiciary can function in safety;
implementation of more effective and efficient court administration and case
management systems, and improved enforcement of judicial decisions;
measures to combat corruption at various stages of legal procedures;
provision of access to up-to-date legal information, including legislation,
court decisions and treaties, to all end users; and
the creation of a more comprehensive, internally consistent and more easily
interpreted legislative framework.
Since its transition which began early this decade, Albania has made
remarkable progress in passing legislation anticipated to have significant
future relevance to private sector activities. Rather than too little
legislation, however, a significant problem now is "legislative overload"
(i.e. too many new laws enacted too quickly for the public and private
sectors to absorb properly) and weak implementation and enforcement of laws.
The weaknesses in the judiciary are due to: political influences in judicial
appointments and dismissals; poor legal education, including judicial
education; low salaries; poor court and case management procedures and
techniques; lack of trained court personnel; vastly inadequate physical
infrastructure; corruption; and lack of access to up-to-date legal
information. Finally, the quality and consistency of Albania's new
legislative framework needs to be reviewed and gaps, internal inconsistencies
and other inadequacies addressed, not as a one-time exercise, but through a
permanent domestic institutional structure.
Independence of the Judiciary. In the past, rules to prohibit Executive
Branch influence on appointment and dismissal of judges as well as on their
formal orders and judgments were unclear or ignored. As a result, much of
the existing judiciary in Albania has been politically appointed and
motivated. Some one-third of existing Albanian judges do not have a law
- 3-



degree but have merely attended a 6-month "training course" in 1993-94. This
course was hastily organized by the Executive, with a 100 percent success
rate for all 450 or so candidates, of which about 100 were appointed as
judges on "graduation". In addition, there has, in practice, been
"overnight" dismissal of judges as a result of Executive branch influence
without any reason, be it valid or not. Also, basic rules of due process for
those so dismissed, such as the right to be heard and the right to legal
representation, have not been respected.
The situation did improve dramatically, however, during the course of 1998.
Albania's new Constitution of November 1998 provides a clear foundation for
judicial independence, and the new law on Judicial Organization gives further
evidence of such independence. Also during 1998, membership in the High
Council of Justice (HCJ), responsible for appointment and dismissal of
judges, was revised, providing for a majority of judges for the first time.
And new rules were enacted which, again for the first time, permit judges who
are subject to possible dismissal for any reason to have advance notice of
the fact and be allowed to appear and be represented by counsel before the
HCJ before it decides the matter. The government has also established an
Inspectors Office under the supervision of the HCJ. This Office is to play
an important role in carrying out investigations of complaints against
individual judges, assessing the competence of those in the existing judicial
system and recommending transfers, retirements, or promotions, where
appropriate, to the HCJ.
In order to achieve independence in practice, however, judges will need the
tools to help them operate more independently. They will need adequate
education, safety, reasonable working conditions and salaries, legal
information, effective court and case management procedures, and a non-
corrupt environment    In each of these respects, however, Albania still has a
long way to go. Legal and judicial education leave much to be desired. Most
courthouses are in a deplorable physical state. Salaries are so low that
simple self-preservation may motivate corrupt behavior.      The lack of
security for judges is an issue.     Judges lack access to the most basic legal
information. Court and case management procedures are woefully inadequate.
And training for court administrators is virtually non-existent. In
addition, according to surveys taken in 1998, corruption in the judiciary is
perceived as endemic and widespread. Indeed, the courts as a whole rank
second on the list of most problematic government agencies.
Legal Education. Legal education helps build a foundation for a "rule of
law" state. It prepares future generations of legal professionals (judges,
lawyers, scholars, government policy makers, etc.) to develop and implement
the new legal system. Albania's basic legal education, however, leaves an
enormous amount to be desired.
There are three law schools in Albania. The oldest and largest is the
Faculty of Law of the University of Tirana, with some 3,300 students, of
which about 2,200 are the remaining "correspondence" course students. The
law school in Shkodra has around 50 day students and the one in Elbasan even
fewer (this school will be phased out by 2001.). Endemic problems which
plague these schools include: insufficient premises and budget; lack of
adequate faculty and teaching materials; and corruption. These make it all
but impossible for students to obtain a legal education of any real quality.
Most of the professors in the Tirana Law Faculty are young and inexperienced.
- 4 -



The Minister of Education, among numerous others, has acknowledged that the
correspondence system cannot provide worthwhile legal education, and this
system is now abolished for all new entrants. However, fundamental reform of
the law schools will be required before a new generation of legal
professionals can be expected to perform appropriately in a more modern and
appropriate legal system.
The Tirana Law School's organizational set up needs to be reviewed and
reformed. On February 25, 1999, a new law on Higher Education was adopted,
providing considerably greater autonomy (organizational, budgetary,
financial, curriculum and faculty-wise, etc.) to all higher education
institutes, including the law schools. While a laudable step, greater
autonomy will need to be complemented by adequate financial management and
organizational arrangements suitable for a decentralized structure. The
Tirana Law School will need to match greater autonomy with transparent
structures and procedures, ensuring accountability.
In the recent past, anecdotal evidence suggested widespread incidence of
bribery and personal favoritism to permit entrance to law schools, successful
completion of entrance examinations and subsequent tests. In an effort to
reduce abuse in these respects, the Tirana Law School has abolished all oral
examinations, and started implementation of anonymous, blind-graded, entrance
and subsequent examinations. Further standardization and controls in this
area may be needed, discontinuing the practice of admitting and graduating
students outside the examination process. A thorough review of the proper
number of day law students is also imperative. It has been proposed to
reduce the number of new students in 1999 and beyond to about 100 per year.
The curriculum at the law schools needs also much improvement. Although the
Tirana University Law Faculty's curriculum has been adjusted frequently over
the past few years in an attempt to prepare new graduates for the changed
legal environment, more is needed, including adding elective courses to the
curriculum and development of a broader program of law courses relevant to
modern business activities. Courses on taxation, commercial mediation and
arbitration, banking and corporate finance, negotiations and contracting,
bankruptcy, legal accounting and secured lending would all be helpful.
Legal education in Albania also suffers from poorly equipped classrooms and
libraries and insufficient and outdated textbooks. As a general rule, no
course materials are available for any students in either the full-time or
the correspondence program. In the past 7 years, some twelve books have been
prepared, but their quality has been uneven and most have been badly edited.
Few are real "texts" or extensive commentaries on Albanian law. Major
subjects are not covered. Many new books are already out of print. There
are no regular review and editing procedures.
The quality of law teaching in general also leaves much to be desired. In
recent years, experienced teaching staff have either retired, resigned, or
been replaced, with their places taken by an influx of new and untrained
teachers. Further, the teaching methodology of the prior regime, relying
heavily on memorization and discouraging independent thinking, has not been
changed. Though teachers have expressed the desire for training and new
methodology, few have had the opportunity to obtain that training or be
exposed to new methodologies. In any event, short study trips abroad have
generally produced few effects at any of the law schools in the fields
- 5 -



concerned.
Quality and Professionalism of Judges. Improving the level of basic legal
education is imperative. But there is an urgent need, as well, to ensure
that judges have the requisite specific judicial knowledge and
qualifications. With the opening of the Magistrates School in 1997, the
Government undertook an important step in this regard. Although much remains
to be done to upgrade its faculty and curriculum, this School already
functions as the sole institution in charge of educating new judges, and will
also soon provide continuing education for existing judges and court
administration staff.
The law on the Organization of the Judiciary introduces minimum higher
academic standards for all new judges and the government envisages a gradual
application of this standard for existing judges. In addition, to help
address the most serious cases of unqualified judges currently in the cadre,
judges having less than 10 years of judicial experience have been directed by
the High Council of Justice to take a re-accreditation test. The first
sitting for the test, on May 8, produced very poor results. Only 43 judges
(out of an estimated 200) sat for the examination and an equal number of
judges appeared for the test but left under strong pressure and intimidation
from antagonistic judges outside the testing center. Representatives of the
High Council of Justice were largely absent and failed to bring the situation
under control. A second test date has been set for May 15. This represents
a serious challenge to the authority and credibility of the High Council of
Justice and signals the low level of professionalism of judges. Some judges
pursued legal channels to challenge the test and a decision from the court is
still pending.
The education of judges after being appointed needs also to be strengthened.
The Magistrates School's efforts in this regard will focus initially on those
judges who have less than 5 years of experience (but have passed the re-
accreditation test). For the most experienced judges, a first step towards
continuing education will likely be decided during the forthcoming first
National Judicial Conference. This event, which may turn into an annual
event bringing all judges of Albania together, will focus on getting the
judges (particularly the most experienced) themselves involved, with the help
of the Magistrates School, in the identification of their own continuing
education needs and the best way to respond to these. Specific subjects will
undoubtedly be those of importance to the judiciary, especially in new areas
of law, for example intellectual property, tax, banking, bankruptcy, secured
lending and comparative law, but other matters of interest to judges could be
addressed as well, such as judicial independence, conditions of service, and
ethics.
Enforcement of Judicial Decisions. Enforcement of judicial decisions is very
weak in Albania. This is particularly so for civil judgments, only 3.9
percent of which were enforced in 1992, and 5.5 percent in 1996. The
situation has become even more difficult following the 1997 crisis which
resulted in large numbers of looted weapons falling into the hands of the
general public. In Albania, where the rule of law is not yet firmly
established and judicial decisions are often ignored, formal and fair
enforcement mechanisms which work are badly needed.
Enforcement officials are technically under the authority of the Ministry of
- 6 -



Justice, but, in practice, they respond to their respective courts. They
have little protection under existing law. In addition, their low salaries,
lack of adequate training, lack of necessary support from the courts and the
police, and lack of security, and undue interference in their work, together
with constant threats and corruption, are all daily problems which
enforcement officials face.
Another problem seriously affecting the efficiency of enforcement officials
is the recent abolition of their sanction right. Previously, enforcement
officials had the authority to fine anyone who did not execute a judgment.
The present Code of Civil Procedure, however, assigns this right to the
court. This does not help the enforcement process and diminishes the
authority of enforcement officials. Also, assistance by the "order police"
during enforcement is poorly defined and their roles and functions are not
clear. An action plan, jointly agreed by the Ministry of Justice and the
judiciary, is needed to address these issues.
Physical Infrastructure. The existing physical infrastructure of the courts
and related facilities are, as a general rule, in deplorable condition.
Court houses generally have no appropriate rooms for the orderly conduct of
trials and which permit public attendance. They also lack appropriate
meeting rooms for litigants, their attorneys, and witnesses, to say nothing,
most frequently, of the most basic additional facilities, including court
registry offices, libraries, archives and administrative offices. There is
also a near total lack of modern equipment (for photocopying, word-
processing, court reporting, etc.) and of staff with any experience in using
these.
Judicial System Administration. Effective court and case management is vital
to ensure a proper and timely judicial process, and to free judges from
administrative duties so they can focus on being judges. The government took
a first step to address this issue when, in the summer of 1998, it adopted a
law for the establishment of a Court Administration Budget Office for courts.
This unit will be responsible for administration, including assisting in the
formulation of budgets for each court and the procurement of goods and
services for the judicial system. Judges need the support of adequately
trained court administrators who will manage court registries, court files,
acceptance of papers for filing, and so on. A training program for court
administrators, to be set up by the Magistrates School, needs to be developed
and implemented quickly.
Corruption. There is a serious problem of corruption in the judiciary (as
well as in the rest of the public administration), notwithstanding that both
the giving and receiving of bribes are crimes under Albania's Criminal Code.
In addition to raising salaries to reasonable levels, combating corruption in
the judiciary will require addressing all the other issues discussed above.
These include reform of legal education, upgrading the professionalism and
quality of judges, improving the physical infrastructure of the courts, and
the publication and dissemination of legal information, including judicial
decisions.
It is in the mandate of the recently established Judicial Inspectors Office
to assess the integrity and quality of judges and other officials within the
judicial system. Its inspectors are appointed by the HCJ and are charged
with the public duty of examining complaints of corruption of judges,
- 7 -



reporting thereon to the HCJ and assisting the HCJ in the conduct of
disciplinary proceedings against a judge or prosecutor. It is critical that
the inspectors are individuals of the highest integrity and widely recognized
as such. However, to prepare this key institute for this task requires
further technical and material support.
Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism Building the capacity of the
judiciary is a long-term and complex proposition. To provide an alternative,
the introduction of mechanisms to resolve commercial disputes out of court,
using mediation and/or arbitration, would be useful. These mechanisms are
already being used in Albania to resolve community conflicts, but, provided
that they are designed correctly, could help support the development of the
private sector as well. The legal framework for ADR has been established by
the new law on mediation and the respective provisions on arbitration in the
Code of Civil Procedure. A Center for the Out-of-Court Settlement of
Commercial Disputes, or Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Center would
likely be most effective if it has the following key features:
being a free-standing independent legal entity, not related to any existing
public or private institution;
providing both mediation and arbitration services;
focusing exclusively on commercial issues and staffed by people with market
expertise;
consisting of a panel of at least 10 or so highly respected professionals,
each trained as mediators and arbitrators;
having a well-trained administrative and clerical/support staff; and
providing an extensive outreach/consumer education program.
Legal Information. There are major deficiencies in the publication and
dissemination of legal information in Albania. These deficiencies seriously
constrain the proper functioning of the legal system. The increased volume
of legislation, regulation and jurisprudence in the 1990s has not been
accompanied by adequate, and in many cases any, publication. Currently, the
majority of Albanian laws, Presidential Decrees, selected acts of the Council
of Ministers and decisions of the Constitutional Court are published by the
Parliament in the Fletorja Zyrtare (Official Gazette). However, there is an
unspecified number of decrees, government decisions and other normative acts,
including regulations, which are not published at all. In addition, frequent
amendments to the laws -- a normal process in its own -- have not been
followed by the regular publication of the most up-to-date versions of the
respective laws in force. Also, very few international treaties or
conventions of multilateral or bilateral character are published.
The new Constitution of Albania of late 1998 requires publication of all
laws, decrees, and all other normative acts, before they can take effect.
Also, publication of all jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the
most important decisions of the High Court is mandatory. The recent
establishment of the State Publication Office is expected to contribute
significantly to help implement these constitutional requirements. Over the
next few months, this office should actually start publishing all new laws,
international treaties, and judicial decisions, and will gradually start
eliminating the backlog. In addition to a very basic dissemination
mechanism, all citizens will be able to actually review the documentation,
and obtain a copy for a fee.
-8-



The publication office will provide a basic structure for the systemic
compilation and publication of all legal information. Systemic dissemination
of that up-to-date legal information will be the next priority. Currently,
the Official Gazette is distributed by the postal service. In rare cases,
newspapers reprint excerpts of new legislation or drafts. In many cases,
individual users obtain copies of non-official texts of legislation or
jurisprudence through informal networks. For the proper functioning of the
entire legal system, it is crucial that all government ministries, agencies,
courts, law schools, the business community, and the public at large have
better access to Albania's legislation and most important jurisprudence.
This will require the set up of an electronic database, with reliable access
to all potential users potentially in conjunction with other methods of
dissemination.
Legislation. Finally, the legislative framework will need further attention,
although on much more of a long-term, institutional, basis. The vast number
of relatively recent laws has led to difficulties in interpretation,
especially where provisions are conflicting, and in implementation. These
statutory conflicts inhibit the growth of the private sector at the most
fundamental levels. In addition to inconsistencies, there still exist some
significant gaps in Albanian law. For example, since 1991 only the First
Part of the Civil Code has been drafted and is in effect. Also, being one of
the largest recipients of foreign legal aid, Albania has adopted laws modeled
on different jurisdictions within the continental law system, as well as on
different models within the Anglo-American legal tradition. The domestic
legal tradition has not always been given due consideration. Besides
problems of substance or content, shortcomings also exist with respect to
lack of uniformity in legal drafting, terminology and translation. It is
envisaged that the creation of a permanent law reform commission will play an
important role in addressing this situation.
Recent Government Initiatives
As mentioned above, with significant external assistance, Albania has adopted
numerous new laws and regulations during the past six years, together forming
a fairly well developed legislative framework for the new political and
economic conditions in Albania. It is now anticipated that the basic legal
framework for key legal institutions will be complemented by new organic laws
for the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and the Prosecutor Generals Office,
spelling out their respective responsibilities according to the new
constitution. In addition, consultants are now being retained to carry out a
comprehensive functional review of the MOJ in June of this year.
However, much remains to be accomplished to ensure that the system of Rule of
Law functions effectively in Albania. It is widely accepted that the
government's program must pay particular attention to improving the key legal
institutions needed to ensure the application and enforcement of Albanian
legislation. Such improvement will, in turn, help make the legal system not
only more predictable but also better able to protect property and
contractual rights, imperative for healthy private sector development.
The Government program in the legal and judicial reform area is being
supported by a number of multilateral organizations, including the Council of
Europe (COE), the Organization of Cooperation and Security in Europe (OCSE),
the European Union (EU), and many bilateral donors. The adopted program is
an integral part of the institution-building program supported by the SAC,
negotiated in April 1999, and is closely coordinated with these programs.
- 9-



This program focuses particularly on actions to help implement the new
legislative framework, and includes measures to strengthen core legal
institutional capacity in the following four areas: (i) the quality and
integrity of the judiciary is adequate to apply the new legal system, and
court registrars and administrators skills be improved; (ii) legal and
judicial education institutes are to be upgraded, to ensure that legal
professionals are trained or re-trained in the new laws, and their concepts
and applications; (iii) all new laws and regulations be publicly accessible
before being applied; and (iv) improving the institutional mechanisms for
long term quality and coherence of the legislative framework.
Improving the functioning of the judiciary is a key part of this program.
The Government has already taken important steps in establishing an
institutional structure for the judiciary: The Law on the Organization of
the Judiciary has been amended to provide a more solid basis for the
Albania's judicial structure. The composition of the High Council of Justice
(HCJ) has been revised so that now judges elect the majority of the Council's
members, and the decision making process is much more transparent and fair.
A Judicial Inspection Office, under the HCJ, has been created to periodically
evaluate the performance of all individual judges, and investigate complaints
against individual magistrates -- including corruption accusations. The
Inspector's Office reports to the HCJ on all its findings, to enable the HCJ
to take appropriate actions. And finally, a Court Administration Budget
Office under the High Court has been established to ensure a more independent
judicial budgetary system.
To complement these measures, the Government has committed itself to
implement newly adopted regulations and procedures for the Judicial
Inspector's Office and to provide this office with adequate office space and
budget to execute its responsibilities. The Inspector's Office will become
the operational arm of the HCJ, function as HCJ's daily secretariat, and will
be housed in a way appropriate to host the meetings of the HCJ as well.
Further diagnostic analysis of the organization, administration and operation
of the Office, both present and prospective, is planned for June 1999, to
prepare the Inspectors' Office for its anticipated role in the evaluation of
judges judicial performance assessments, both following specific complaints
as well as for purposes of continuing job performance. And further
regulations for the Office may be forthcoming as a result.
To address the immediate concerns regarding the quality of the current corps
of judges in the system, the High Council of Justice is preparing a re-
accreditation test for all first instance judges with less then 10 years
experience, carrying out this test, and taking appropriate actions to remove
judges that no longer qualify from their judicial position. As discussed
above, the test was held, as scheduled, on May 8 but serious irregularities
occurred and alternative measures are clearly needed. This one-time
procedure will be followed up in the future by periodic individual judicial
performance evaluations, to be carried out by the Inspector's Office.
Furthermore, the government will adopt regulations defining the objectives,
rules and regulations for the preparation of court budgets and will
strengthen the Central Court Budget Office under the High Court. And a
joined Ministry of Justice/Judiciary Committee is being set up to prepare an
action plan to improve procedures for the enforcement of judicial decisions
for adoption by the Government before the end of the year. In addition, the
Government will review the legal basis for out-of-court mediation/arbitration
of commercial disputes, support the establishment of an alternative dispute
- 10 -



resolution center for commercial transactions; and implement reforms in court
administration and case management techniques in the high Court and two lower
courts.
Upgrading the quality of legal and judicial training institutions is also an
important part of the program.    Following the model of the Magistrates
School, the Government is now preparing a fundamental reform agenda for the
Tirana Law School, to address the school's current problems and ensure that
future generations of legal professionals are adequately trained. In this
regard, a comprehensive reform program is being put together for the Tirana
Law School. This Comprehensive Multilateral Action Plan (CMAP) aims to
provide a flexible framework for domestic and international efforts to
improve legal education at the Law School and should deal with structural,
organizational, managerial, and budgetary issues, in addition to fundamental
reform to the School's curriculum and faculty. It also lists priority
investments that need further external financial support (develop new
curriculum, train teachers, improve law text book publication, provide basic
equipment, renovate new building, etc.). The establishment of this group,
now formally lead by the Dean of the Law School, should also play a major
role in keeping track of all donor initiatives. The SAC reform program
supports the implementation of the Tirana Law School reform program, and
financial support to the Law School under this Credit will be closely
coordinated with the CMAP plan to avoid duplication of efforts.
To improve transparency and to make laws more accessible, in addition to the
creation of the State Publication Office, the government is also reviewing
the codification registration system and will design an adequate
dissemination system in order to make this essential legal information
accessible to all interested citizens. As soon as the State Publication
Office is fully functioning, an electronic database for all laws and
regulations and for most of the important judicial decisions will be
designed, as well as a plan for sustainable dissemination of this database.
This should facilitate proper access to up-to-date legal information for all
courts, government ministries, local governments, law schools, and public
libraries as soon as possible. Naturally, such a system should also be
accessible to Albania's business community and to the public at large, by
providing for public paid subscriptions for all such information, either
electronically or by hard-copy.
The Government program also contains institutional strengthening to help
improve the quality of the legislative framework. Two currently functioning
working groups to integrate/harmonize Albania's legislative framework with
the European Human Rights Convention and with European/Atlantic Standards,
will be merged into one future permanent Law Reform Commission.
Public administration
On public administration, the CAS identifies the need to restore and build
trust in the government as the main priority. The more recent Country
Economic Memorandum stresses two key issues that must be addressed in order
to build such trust: accountability and public administration capacity. The
Government's strategy for strengthening its public administration addresses
these weaknesses through three inter-related sets of interventions: (a)
strengthening public financial management, including the management of both
public expenditures and revenues; (b) strengthening human resource
management; and (c) undertaking a functional review process aimed at creating
- 11 -



more efficient and coordination-enhancing organizational structures,
arrangements and practices.
Strengthening of public financial management is being accomplished by
strengthening core public financial management units (Ministry of Finance,
Supreme Audit Institute, Procurement Directorate within the Office of the
Prime Minister) as well as the financial management units within each line
agency (e.g., budget departments within line Ministries).
Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance includes its public expenditure
management functions (budget formulation and execution, macroeconomic
forecasting/modeling, treasury and cash management, accounting, internal
auditing), its revenue administration functions (tax and customs), as well as
strengthening of its own internal management capacities. On the public
expenditure management side of this work, with the support of the EU/PHARE,
the Government prepared and Parliament recently enacted a New Organic Budget
Law (NOBL) (Law No. 8379, dated 29 July 1998). EU/PHARE is providing a long-
term adviser and other support to help implement that NOBL. The IMF has also
provided assistance through its Fiscal Affairs Department. Additional
assistance will be provided through this LJPAR project. That assistance will
address each of the public expenditure management functions within the
Ministry of Finance (budget formulation and execution, macroeconomic
forecasting/modeling, treasury and cash management, accounting) as well as
internal management capacities, including internal audit. It will focus on
enhancing transparency, accountability and predictability of public
expenditure management practices. On the revenue administration side, the
Government has and continues to receive considerable assistance through the
Customs Administration Mission (CAM), financed largely by the Italian
Government and the EU. A new Customs Law resulted from this assistance
recently (January 1999, subsequently amended, put into force May 15, 1999).
In addition, the CAM-supported reforms are making substantial improvements in
both the management and performance of the Customs Department. Tax
administration modernization is being supported by an existing IDA-financed
Tax Administration Modernization Project (TAMP).
Strengthening of the Supreme Audit Institute is being supported under the
EU/PHARE State Institutions and Public Administration Reform (SIPAR)
programme. That programme supported the formulation of provisions in the
recently approved Constitution creating an independent Supreme Audit
Institute (SAI) reporting directly to the Parliament. SIPAR includes an
extensive program of assistance to help the SAI to provide probative,
reliable and timely external audits by: (i) building its external audit
capacities through implementing audit standards and methods, (ii) modernizing
the SAI's audit technologies (e.g., computerization, power supply backup),
and (iii) improving its relations with Parliament, to whom it reports. At a
later date, support for building performance auditing capacities within the
SAI will be considered, but the initial priority is to bring conventional
financial auditing capacities up to modern standards.
Strengthening of the Procurement Directorate is being supported both through
the SIPAR programme and through technical assistance provided by World Bank
missions. Primary foci of that support include: (i) revision of the existing
public procurement law; (ii) development and dissemination of detailed
regulations, guidelines, forms, etc. governing public procurement procedures
and practices; (iii) strengthening of the oversight capacities of the
- 12 -



Procurement Directorate; and (iv) establishing the capacity and practice
within the Procurement Directorate to prepare and disseminate periodic
reports on the quantity and quality of public procurements.
Strengthening of public sector human resource management will be addressed in
two major stages: civil service reform and broader public sector human
resource management reform. The first stage aims to create the managerial
and professional nucleus required to lead any serious efforts to improve the
accountability and performance of public institutions. The second stage will
address the larger body of public employees who must also be productive and
accountable for their work if public policies, programs and services are to
be delivered reliably and cost-effectively. While stage two will largely
follow and build on stage one, work on broader public sector human resource
management reform is expected to commence before the civil service reform
process is complete. In addition, stage two interventions will be more
varied across sectors, as some of the larger sectors (e.g., education, health
care) will require unique legal frameworks. Finally, the Government aims to
integrate its stage two interventions into sector-specific modernization
processes, which will introduce additional variability in the timing and
design of stage two reforms across sectors.
Civil service reform will be addressed by: (i) revising the Civil Service
Law, so as to lay a firmer foundation for an independent, merit-based,
competitively recruited, career civil service protected by adequate redress;
(ii) creating an independent Civil Service Commission, with centralized
responsibility to create a professional, merit-based, highly skilled,
depoliticized civil service protected by adequate redress; (iii)
strengthening the capacity of the Department of Public Administration to
support that Civil Service Commission as well as to support more professional
human resource management throughout the public sector; (iv) revising
policies governing the conditions of employment, including salary structures
within the civil service; (v) strengthening central payroll and personnel
monitoring capacities within the Department of Public Administration; (vi)
monitoring the impacts of civil service reforms; and (vii) providing the
Council of Ministers with periodic, and at least annual, assessments of those
impacts and recommendations for further improving civil service and human
resource management performance.
Broader public sector human resource management reform will build on both the
experience and the enhanced human resources resulting from the civil service
reform process. This stage of the Government's public sector human resource
management strategy will involve six major elements: (i) revising the legal
framework governing non-civil-service positions so as to enhance
transparency, competitive forces, accountability and redress, but without
necessarily creating the career system envisioned for the civil service; (ii)
strengthening the capacity of central authorities, particularly the
Department of Public Administration, to provide oversight and technical
assistance for human resource management functions exercised by budgetary
institutions; (iii) strengthening human resource management capacities within
budgetary units; (iv) revising salary structures for non-civil-service
positions and/or establishing regulatory frameworks and oversight capacity
within which budget institutions may improve non-civil service salaries
within a hard wage bill constraint subject to meeting agreed conditions
(e.g., on management accountability); (v) monitoring the impacts of these
broader public sector human resource management reforms; and (vi) providing
- 13 -



the Department of Public Administration and, in turn, the Council of
Ministers with periodic, and at least annual, assessments of those impacts
and recommendations for further improving overall human resource management
performance throughout the public sector.
A functional review process targeted at the central administration aims at:
(i) establishing guidelines and standards for organizational structures and
staffing to meet common function requirements (policy formulation and
coordination, financial management, human resource management, accountability
for meeting policy and program objectives); (ii) clarifying policy and
program objectives of the organizational units encompassed by a functional
review and identifying means by which the Ministry could regularly monitor,
evaluate and report on progress in achieving those objectives; (iii) aligning
the functions of the Ministry to those appropriate for a market-oriented
economy, consistent with Constitutional obligations and social priorities,
and eliminating inappropriate functions; and (iv) providing recommendations
on steps the Ministry could take to improve its accountability and
performance in achieving program and policy objectives within its mandate in
a more cost-effective and citizen-responsive manner (e.g., through process
re-engineering). This process has begun with the Council of Ministers, the
public expenditure management elements of the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Government. The Ministry of
Education is next in line.
Policy and program implementation
Improving policy and program implementation will require sector-specific
strategies and interventions, which will more often than not benefit from
active donor support and expertise. To ensure that the Government's
institutional and public administration reform strategy will complement those
sector-specific reforms, the following principles will guide concerted
sector-specific reform initiatives aimed at significantly and sustainably
improving the implementation or delivery of policies, programs and services
within a given sector:
Establish partnerships with independent, highly qualified and strongly
motivated teams of experts and change agents (e.g., provided through donors
or NGOs) when concerted efforts are launched to systematically and
sustainably improve the implementation of a given sector's policies and
programs (e.g., education, health, infrastructure, social services, etc.).
Before launching any concerted program, policy or service delivery reform
initiative, prepare a reform strategy for the sector, which addresses, among
other issues, the following design elements:
Objectives: Establish clear objectives, including means of regularly
monitoring and assessing the extent to which those objectives are being
achieved.
Partnership: Identify means of ensuring active involvement, even to the point
of full partnership, with the intended beneficiaries of the programs,
policies or services in both the design and operation of the delivery system
(e.g., in the design and operation of schools, health clinics, etc.).
Management: Identify means of ensuring adequate management systems and
capacities (e.g., financial management, personnel management, performance
monitoring and reporting).
Marketing: Identify means of ensuring widespread dissemination of information
to intended beneficiaries that will help to increase their awareness of the
- 14 -



services and service provision standards they should expect, how they can
access those services, as well as the resources that are being spent on
providing those services, so that they will be in a position to hold the
providing agency accountable.
Feedback and redress: Identify means by which intended beneficiaries can
provide feedback and seek redress, particularly if posted service provision
standards are not met.
Coordinate the overall public administration reform effort with sector-
specific reform initiatives. This would include:
Concentrate efforts to strengthen public expenditure management capacities
within a sectoral Ministry in the early stages of a sector-specific reform
effort.
Target civil service positions within a sectoral Ministry undertaking a
program, policy or service provision reform effort during the early stages of
that sector-specific reform effort.
Employ the functional review of the sectoral Ministry as a means of launching
important aspects of the sector-specific reform effort, particularly the
specification of objectives and their monitoring and establishing adequate
management systems and capacities.
The Department of Public Administration (Ministry of Finance? Office of the
Prime Minister) will provide technical assistance and oversight of the
Government's effort to effect these policy and program implementation reform
guidelines. The Department of Public Administration will take direct
responsibility for ensuring coordination of the Government's overall public
administration reform process with sector-specific reform initiatives.
Technical assistance will be provided under the LJPAR project to assist the
Department of Public Administration (Ministry of Finance? Office of the Prime
Minister?) to establish the capacity to meet this mandate.
Redress/Citizen Voice
The final dimension of the Government's overall institutional and public
administration reform strategy is providing avenues of redress should
citizens or public officials have reason to question whether the public
institutions are meeting their mandates (e.g., elected officials, the newly
created Ombudsman, the Judiciary, the Judicial Inspectors' Office of the
High Council of Justice, and the soon to be created Civil Service
Commission). This complements the previous four dimensions, providing one
more means of ensuring that the Government and its public administration does
not lose touch with its clients -- the citizenry. Major elements of the
Government's strategy for improving redress include:
Direct citizen redress: (i) Creation and strengthening of an independent
"People's Advocate" or ombudsman (January 28, 1999), to respond to concerns
raised by individual citizens about the performance of the public
administration and its representatives; (ii) creation within the Parliament
of capacity to systematically monitor citizens' perceptions of the impacts of
policies and programs (see "Policy Formulation and Coordination" above); and
(iii) creation (through the sector-specific reform initiatives discussed
above) of avenues by which intended beneficiaries of particular policies,
programs or public services can directly appeal to the public agency
responsible for delivering or implementing that policy, program or public
service should the citizen be dissatisfied with the agency's or its
representatives' performance.
- 15 -



Legal redress: Strengthening of the Judiciary, including creation and
strengthening of the Judicial Inspectors' Office of the High Council of
Justice (see above), to meet citizens' needs for legal redress.
Administrative redress for public officials: Creation and strengthening of an
independent Civil Service Commission, to provide, among other functions,
administrative redress when public employees have reason to question the
fairness or legitimacy of personnel actions within the public administration.
2. Objectives
The Government of Albania has adopted a comprehensive policy reform program
to strengthen Albania's weak institutional and governance capacity, including
its ability to enforce its laws and regulations. This policy reform program
is being supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit, which has recently been
negotiated. The overall objective of the proposed Legal, Judicial, and
Public Administration Reform Project is to provide required resources for
technical assistance, training, goods, and works that are needed to implement
the Government's Institutional and Public Administration Reform agenda
effectively, particularly in the areas of legal/judicial reform and public
administration reform.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The major sources of value added by the Bank's support for this project are
fivefold: integrated strategic vision, mutually reinforcing operations,
sector-specific expertise, credibility and ensuring that lessons can be
learned from the experience. The Bank's SAC, PESC and LJPAR teams have and
will continue to help the Government to develop an integrated strategic
vision for the overall institutional and public administration reform
process. That vision may be found in the SAC and PESC designs and
documentation, as well as in the Government's strategic approach delineated
above (Section B.2). Related to this, the SAC, PESC and LJPAR operations are
mutually reinforcing. They share a common and integrated strategic vision,
while the SAC and PESC provide the leverage and the LJPAR provides the
technical assistance. Bank-provided sector-specific expertise complements
similar expertise being provided by other donors, particularly the EU through
its support of SIGMA's involvement in the SIPAR programme. Importantly, the
close collaboration between the Bank's team and the EU/SIGMA team has
enhanced both quality of advice and Government receptivity. We expect such
close collaboration to continue, with similar results. An example of the
results of this collaboration is the completely new Civil Service Law
recently forwarded to Parliament. Regarding credibility, the Bank will
shoulder front-line responsibility for launching a number of key elements of
the reform strategy aimed at enhancing accountability of the Government for
achieving impacts through this reform effort; in particular, the Impact
Monitoring Exercise and the Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. The
credibility of the Bank is essential for these exercises to yield their
desired impacts. This credibility factor was strikingly illustrated when the
Bank took the lead in undertaking the public officials' and citizens' surveys
underlying the "Anti-Corruption Workshop" staged in June/July 1998. Finally,
the Bank's recent development of a variety of systematic instruments for
measuring the impacts of institutional reform efforts will provide the basis
for the Impact Monitoring Exercise as well as the Public Expenditure Tracking
Surveys. The use of these instruments and the experience previously gained
by the Bank in their use will help to ensure that the a systematic approach
can be taken to learning lessons from the Government's reform process.
- 16 -



4. Description
The LJPAR project will aim to address the objectives underlined in the above
strategy by focusing on some of the most important elements that lay the
foundations for a more efficient and transparent functioning of the state,
based in the rule of law. The project will address five main components: (i)
policy formulation and coordination component; (ii) the judicial/legal
system; (iii) the public administration system; (iv) policy and program
implementation, and; (v) avenues for redress. The judicial/legal component
and the public administration component are estimated to require about 90 W
of the anticipated credit amount as indiated in the table below. Although
the final selection of project sub-components will be a function of detailed
project preparation and appraisal, below are summarized those sub-components
which are likely. PHRD grant funds in the amount of $573,000 are now
available for purposes of assisting in preparing the project. Although these
funds will be administered by the World Bank, agreement with Albanian
counterparts is still being sought as to how precisely these funds should be
deployed. Detailed TORs have been prepared and are under discussion with the
relevant Albanian counterparts. It is anticipated that detailed preparatory
work will soon be undertaken in respect of such matters as judicial
administration and case management reform, assistance to the judicial
inspector's office, judicial education, legal education, ADR, legal
information dissemination, and a study to improve basic court data. However,
establishment of the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) is a top priority.
Detailed TORs have been prepared and the three anticipated full-time PPU
positions are currently being advertised by Government.
A. Improve policy formulation and
coordination
- strengthen functioning of the
Council of Ministers
- build capacity in the Parliament
to systematically monitor impacts
of policies and programs
B. Strengthen the Legal/Judicial
system
- improve Legal/Judicial Education
- strengthen the judiciary
- improve disemination of legal
information
- legal framework
C. Strengthen Public Administration.
- strengthen core public expenditure
management functions
- strengthen human resource
management functions
D. Strengthen policy and program
implementation
E. Create avenues for redress
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
- 17-



Government               0
IBRD                     0
IDA                      0
Total Project Cost       0
6. Implementation
Implementation Period:   The project is expected to be implemented over a
five-year period (2000-2004).
Project Implementation: The Government has created a Legal Reform
Coordination Council, in charge of designing and supervising the
implementation of reforms in the legal and judicial area. It comprises of
the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Institutional Reform, the Minister
of Education, the Chairman of the High Court, the Deputy Minister of Finance,
the Dean of the Tirana Law School, and the Director of the Magistrates
School. In addition, the Government has created an inter-ministerial
committee to implement and oversee measures that will be taken in the context
of the public administration reform for strengthening the financial
management system and human resource management system. The interministerial
committee is under the leadership of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime
Minister and it is comprised of Minister of Finance, Director of the
Department for Public Administration, Minister of Instituional Reform.......
While these Committees will have overall responsibility for implementing the
project and monitoring its progress, day-to-day implementation will be
carried out by a Project Preparation Unit (PPU), comprised of a Director, a
legal reform coordinator and a public administration/financial management
coordinator, located in the office of the Deputy Prime Minister. In effect,
once the project is approved by IDA's Board, the PPU will be expanded to
include the required procurement, disbursement, and financial management
capabilities, and will become the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU
will be provided with resources to hire short- and long-term specialized
consultants to facilitate project implementation and to ensure appropriate
project monitoring. It will have the responsibility, and will be provided
the capacity, to plan, budget and manage all facets of project
implementation.
Project Coordination: In respect of the Legal and Judicial Sub-components
(LJCs), overall policy direction and the over-seeing of project coordination
will be provided by the legal and judicial coordinating committee, referred
to above.   The Public Administration sub-components (PACs) will also be
coordinated and overseen by the policy group mentioned in the above
paragraph.
Monitoring and Evaluation Design:     The PIU will have a monitoring and
evaluation system for which an appropriate computerized Management
Information System (MIS) will be set up under the project. It will track
three main variables:
financial indicators (e.g. amounts contracted and disbursed);
performance indicators (to be determined);
physical indicators (e.g. progress of infrastructure construction,
procurement of computers and setting up of the MIS).
Sample surveys will also be taken during project implementation to get
stakeholder's evaluations of the impact of reforms implemented under the
- 18 -



project.   The precise institutional mechanisms for project implementation
remain to be discussed and agreed with the GOA, although preliminary
discussions have occurred. Firm commitment to a strong PIU is expected to be
forthcoming.
7. Sustainability
The Government's institutional and public administration reform strategy,
supported by the project, includes a number of features that should provide a
firm foundation for sustainability if they are successfully implemented. The
more important of these include:
A variety of measures are intended to enhance citizen-responsiveness of
public sector institutions (e.g., the Impact Monitoring Exercise, assistance
to line Ministries to encourage and help them to operate in a more citizen-
involving manner, the creation of an Ombudsman). These measures, if
successful, should help to build pressures from the citizenry directed at the
Parliament, the Government, the Judiciary and the public administration to
meet the reform objectives. Such pressures should increase the odds that the
Parliament, the Government, the Judiciary and the public administration will
implement the strategy as intended.
Involvement of NGOs and other donors, such as the Soros Foundation, the
Friends of Albania, OSCE, etc., will be sought during project preparation, so
as to bring another source of pressure on the Parliament, the Government, the
Judiciary and the public administration to implement the strategy and project
as intended. Substantial efforts are already being devoted to ensuring close
collaboration among donors. These efforts will be expanded to include other
elements of civil society, such as NGOs.
Public expenditure management strengthening element of the project aims to
strengthen all three levels of budgetary performance: aggregate fiscal
discipline, resource allocation and use based on strategic priorities, and
efficiency and effectiveness of programs and service delivery. Better public
expenditure management should enhance sustainability of all elements of the
institutional and public administration reform strategy.
The functional review process includes among its aims the identification of
functions that could be more efficiently performed by the private sector, so
that they could be subsequently privatized in one form or another. To the
extent that this element yields results, fiscal sustainability should be
enhanced.
The judicial and legal reform element also anticipates including measures to
enhance the fiscal sustainability of those reforms. For instance, as much as
possible, cost recovery systems will be introduced; already under
consideration is a fee-based higher education system. Also the State
publication office will offer services on a cost-recovery basis.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of the project is consistent with the lessons identified in the
recently enunciated Bank strategy, as well as the ECA regional strategy, for
public sector institutional reform. Such lessons fall into two broad
categories: content and design elements aimed at reinforcing commitment
throughout the reform process. Regarding content, the ECA regional strategy
for public sector institutional reform states:
"While a wide variety of institutional arrangements within the public sector
are workable, well-functioning governments are generally thought to have
- 19 -



certain important characteristics in common. They are responsive to the
citizenry and reasonably efficient in the delivery of public services. Their
decisionmaking processes and the decisions they result in are in general
transparent and predictable. Oversight mechanisms (i.e., checks and
balances) exist to guard against arbitrariness and to ensure accountability
in the use of public resources, but these oversight mechanisms do not
eliminate the flexibility and delegation that is needed to respond quickly to
changing circumstances."
The LJPAR includes elements aimed at improving each of these important
characteristics of a well-functioning government. Important examples include
the following:
Desirable Characteristic:
Design Element
Responsiveness to the citizenry:
Undertake impact monitoring
exercise/surveys
Create within Parliament capacity to
monitor citizens' perceptions of the
impacts of policies and programs
Create capacity within the Department of
Public Administration to establish
guidelines and provide technical
assistance to budget institutions on
enhancing the citizen-responsiveness of
their organizations
Assist line Ministries in developing
sector strategies that explicitly address
means by which their policy and program
implementation efforts can be made more
participative.
Reasonably efficient in the delivery of
public services:
Create capacity within Department of
Public Administration to establish
guidelines and provide technical
assistance to line Ministries in the
application of principles to guide
concerted sector-specific reform
initiatives aimed at significantly and
sustainably improving the implementation
or delivery of policies, programs and
services within a given sector.
Coordinate overall institutional and
public administration reform effort with
sector-specific reform initiatives.
Decisionmaking processes and the decisions
they result in are in general transparent
and predictable.:
- 20 -



Rationalize the management of the policy
formulation processes within the CoM.
Build stable professional capacity within
the CoM to provide systematic analyses of
policy issues and tradeoffs raised by
legislative and policy proposals.
Provide technical assistance to the CoM on
lessons from worldwide experience with
cabinet decision making arrangements and
practices.
Strengthen public expenditure management
functions (budget formulation, budget
execution, treasury and cash management,
debt management, accounting).
Initiate Budget Framework memorandum
process.
Oversight mechanisms (i.e., checks and
balances) exist to guard against
arbitrariness and to ensure accountability
in the use of public resources, but these
oversight mechanisms do not eliminate the
flexibility and delegation that is needed
to respond quickly to changing
circumstances.:
Strengthen public expenditure management
functions (budget formulation, budget
execution, treasury and cash management,
debt management, accounting).
Undertake impact monitoring
exercise/surveys.
Undertake Public Expenditure Tracking
Surveys.
Create independent Civil Service
Commission and support the development of
its capacities.
Strengthen Department of Public
Administration.
Create within Parliament capacity to
monitor citizens' perceptions of the
impacts of policies and programs.
The various design elements aimed at ensuring responsiveness to the citizenry
should partially address the need to reinforce commitment throughout the
reform process. Direct Bank involvement and assistance in undertaking and
ensuring widespread dissemination of key impact monitoring inteventions will
be particularly important in this regard. These include the Impact
Monitoring Exercise, the follow-up survey on perceptions of corruption, as
well as the Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. In addition, intensive and
close supervision of the LJPAR by the Bank will be required to continuously
adjust strategy and tactics to rapid and constantly changing conditions and
challenges. To this end, the pairing of the LJPAR with (i) related Bank
policy operations (the PESP and SAC), and (ii) complementary ESW (Public
- 21 -



Expenditure Review) should help to address the Bank's capacity to continually
reinforce counterpart commitment.
Regarding the legal and judicial reform aspects of the project, Bank
experience indicates that common reasons why justice systems fail to meet the
needs of society in general include the following: (a) a poorly drafted,
incomplete and too frequently unpublished legislative framework with which
judges have to work; (b) inefficient court administration; (c) unskilled and
inexperienced judges; (d) untrained judges in new areas of the law; (e)
government neglect in satisfying the material and logistic needs of the
judiciary; (f) insufficient budgetary resources; and (g) corruption.
Experience also shows the need for a high level of Government commitment to -
- and ownership of -- the process of legal and judicial reform as well as, of
course, the actual reforms themselves. The approach to project design will
be as fully participatory as possible, involving all relevant stakeholders.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
11. Contact Points:
Team Leader
Sandra Bloemenkamp
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 25, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 22 -



