                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                     Report No: ICR00003536

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-98640)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.44 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                             ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                      FOR A

       THIRD NATIONAL COMMUNICATION TO THE UNITED NATIONS
        FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE PROJECT



                                  January 29, 2016




Environment and Natural Resources Global Practice
Southern Cone Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office




                                         i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2015)

                      Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                           Arg$1.00 = US$0.11
                           US$1.00 = Arg$9.09

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BUR      Biennial Update Report
CCD      Climate Change Directorate
CIMA     Research Center on the Sea and the Atmosphere (Centro de
         Investigaciones del Mar y la Atmósfera)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
COFEMA   Federal Council of Environment (Consejo Federal de Medio Ambiente)
COP      Conference of the Parties
DGTA     General Administration and Technical Directorate (Dirección General
         Técnico Administrativa)
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
FM       Financial Management
FNC      First National Communication
GCCC     Governmental Commission on Climate Change
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environmental Objective
GHG      Greenhouse Gas
GoA      Government of Argentina
IA       Implementing Agency
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IOI      Intermediate Outcome Indicator
INDC     Intended Nationally Determined Contributions
IPCC     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
JGM      Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers (Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros)
MREC     Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship
MTR      Midterm Review
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NC       National Communication
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document

                                     ii
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
P&M      Policies and Measures
RF       Results Framework
SAyDS    Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (Secretaría de
         Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable)
SC       Steering Committee
SNC      Second National Communication
TAC      Technical Advisory Committee
TNC      Third National Communication
ToR      Terms of Reference
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change




         Senior Global Practice Director: Paula Caballero
                       Practice Manager: Raúl Ivan Alfaro-Pelico
                   Project Team Leader: Tuuli Johanna Bernardini
                      ICR Team Leader: Tuuli Johanna Bernardini




                                       iii
                                          ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                     Third National Communication to the United Nations
                      Framework Convention on Climate Change Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 50
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 51
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 52
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 54
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 55
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 65
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 66
  MAP




                                                             v
A. Basic Information
                                                                         AR Third National
Country:                 Argentina               Project Name:           Communication
                                                                         UNFCCC
Project ID:              P116974                 L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-98640
ICR Date:                01/29/2016              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                         THE ARGENTINE
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Recipient:
                                                                         REPUBLIC
Original Total
                         USD 2.44M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 1.40M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 2.44M
Environmental Category: C                        Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (SAyDS)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Global Environment Facility (GEF)

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process               Date            Process            Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/03/2009      Effectiveness:           05/02/2011        07/27/2012
                                                                                 09/05/2011
Appraisal:            05/17/2010      Restructuring(s):                          02/15/2013
                                                                                 12/19/2014
Approval:             02/01/2011      Mid-term Review:         05/01/2012        09/02/2013
                                      Closing:                 05/31/2013        06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome:              Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Recipient Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Recipient Performance
         Bank                Ratings              Recipient                      Ratings
                           Moderately
Quality at Entry:                           Government:                       Unsatisfactory
                          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                                          Moderately
Quality of Supervision:                     Implementing Agency:
                          Unsatisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory


                                                 i
Overall Bank                  Moderately         Overall Recipient
                                                                                 Unsatisfactory
Performance:                 Unsatisfactory      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Project at any time       Yes                                             None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry            25                   25
Public administration- Energy and mining                            25                   25
Public administration- Transportation                               25                   25
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                    25                   25
protection


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                      100                 100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Jorge Familiar                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Jesko S. Hentschel                  Penelope J. Brook
Practice
                          Raúl Ivan Alfaro-Pelico             Karin Erika Kemper
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Tuuli Johanna Bernardini            Marcelo Hector Acerbi
ICR Team Leader:          Tuuli Johanna Bernardini
ICR Primary Author:       Alejandro M. Deeb
                          Peter M. Brandriss




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environmental Objective (GEO)1 and Key Indicators (as approved)
Strengthen the information base and institutional capacity of the key members of the
Steering Committee, in order to integrate climate change priorities into the Recipient's
development strategies and relevant sector programs by providing financial and technical
support to prepare the Third National Communication (TNC).

Revised Global Environmental Objective (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

    (a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                           Target Years
                 The Biennial Update Report (BUR) of the Argentine Republic delivered to the
Indicator 1 : Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship (MREC) to be submitted to the United
                 Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
                                            Report delivered                      Not delivered
Value            No report (BUR was a       to the MREC (for                      (inputs completed
(quantitative or new UNFCCC                 eventual                              but report was not
Qualitative)     requirement)               submission to                         finalized by
                                            UNFCCC)                               project closing)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                    06/30/2015                            06/30/2015
                 Almost achieved. Indicator added in Dec 2014. The inputs for the BUR were
                 completed, but the final report was still being prepared at the project closing.
Comments
                 The TNC report was also in the final stages of preparation, though it was not
(incl. %
                 considered a formal outcome indicator. Additional consultants were hired with
achievement)
                 other financing to complete the reports; both the BUR and TNC report were
                 submitted to the UNFCCC in Dec 2015.
                 Management tools and/or studies on sector-specific mitigation potential
Indicator 2 :
                 developed to evaluate and design feasible mitigation policies and measures
Value
(quantitative or 0                          11                   19               18
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                    05/31/2013           06/30/2015       06/30/2015
                 95% achieved. Reworded in Dec 2014. Outputs completed except the BUR.
                 Quality good, met govt. expectations. Higher revised target partly due to some
Comments
                 tools redefined as separate outputs. Studies will help evaluate and design policies
(incl. %
                 and measures. See Annex 2 for achieved outputs.
achievement)




1
    As per Grant Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)


                                                  iii
                                              Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                   A Climate Modeling Study and studies on sector-specific impact, vulnerability,
Indicator 3 :
                   and adaptation options developed
Value
(quantitative or 0                           9                   4                11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     05/31/2013          06/30/2015       06/30/2015
                 Fully achieved. Reworded in Dec 2014. Original and revised target was
Comments         achieved. Four studies delivered on (i) climate data, (ii) mean and extreme
(incl. %         weather, (iii) labor force implications, and (iv) social vulnerability. Achieved
achievement) value includes seven studies dropped from target but still delivered after
                 contracting constraints resolved. See Annex 2 for the achieved outputs.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
                   Level of progress achieved in creating the targeted information base for climate
Indicator 1 :
                   mitigation (percent)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         100                                95
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/14/2011                06/30/2015                          06/30/2015
Comments           95% achieved. Indicator added in Dec 2014 to measure ongoing implementation
(incl. %           progress. 95 percent achievement reflects delivery of 18 mitigation studies (only
achievement)       the BUR report remained pending and this was delivered in Dec 2015).
                   Level of progress achieved in creating the targeted information base for climate
Indicator 2 :
                   adaptation (percent)
Value
(quantitative or 0                           100                               100
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     06/30/2015                        06/30/2015
                 Fully achieved. Indicator added in Dec 2014 to measure ongoing implementation
Comments         progress. 100 percent achievement reflects the four studies included in the
(incl. %         revised results framework. Seven additional sector studies that were dropped in
achievement) Dec 2014 were also delivered after contracting constraints were resolved in
                 February 2015.
                 Level of participation in the development of the mitigation studies by the key
Indicator 3 :
                 agencies
                 Key agencies participated Eight key agencies                  All eight agencies
Value            in defining priorities      provide relevant                  reviewed and
(quantitative or during project design, but comments on each                   provided relevant
Qualitative)     direct involvement in       draft document                    comments on each
                 background studies for delivered                              mitigation study

                                                   iv
                previous National                                              reviewed by the
                Communications was                                             Steering Committee
                sporadic                                                       (SC) and Technical
                                                                               Advisory
                                                                               Committee (TAC)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     06/30/2015                        06/30/2015
Comments         Fully achieved. Added in Dec 2014 as a measure of capacity and engagement.
(incl. %         The documents were reviewed in regular SC meetings and by TAC and received
achievement) relevant comments from all eight key agencies. See further details in Annex 2.
                 Level of participation in the development of the adaptation studies by the key
Indicator 4 :
                 agencies
                 Key agencies participated
                                                                               All seven agencies
                 in defining priorities      Seven key
                                                                               reviewed and
                 during project design, but agencies provide
Value                                                                          provided relevant
                 direct involvement in       relevant comments
(quantitative or                                                               comments on each
                 background studies for on each draft
Qualitative)                                                                   adaptation study
                 previous National           document
                                                                               reviewed by the SC
                 Communications was          delivered
                                                                               and TAC
                 sporadic
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     06/30/2015                        06/30/2015
                 Fully achieved. Added in Dec 2014 as a measure of capacity and engagement.
Comments
                 Climate modeling and adaptation studies reviewed in regular SC meetings and
(incl. %
                 by TAC and received relevant comments from all seven key agencies. See
achievement)
                 further details in Annex 2.
Indicator 5 : Proportion (percent) of procurement processes initiated
Value
(quantitative or 0                           100                               100
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     06/30/2015                        06/30/2015
                 Fully achieved. Added in Dec 2014. Measured ongoing implementation progress
Comments
                 (compared actual procurement initiated to the latest revised quarterly
(incl. %
                 procurement schedule) against the Dec 2014 procurement plan that reflected the
achievement)
                 final restructuring.
Indicator 6 : Proportion (percent) of procurement processes completed
Value
(quantitative or 0                           100                               95
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/14/2011                     06/30/2015                        06/30/2015
                 95% achieved. Added in Dec 2014. Measured ongoing implementation progress
Comments
                 (compared actual procurement completed to the latest revised quarterly
(incl. %
                 procurement schedule) against the Dec 2014 procurement plan that reflected the
achievement)
                 final restructuring.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs




                                               v
                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         GEO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1   04/02/2011        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    0.00
  2   12/03/2011        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    0.00
                                                       Moderately
  3   06/15/2012   Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.00
                                                      Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately                     Moderately
  4   11/10/2012                                                                      0.00
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately
  5   06/29/2013                                  Moderately Satisfactory             0.30
                       Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately
  6   02/04/2014                                  Moderately Satisfactory             0.50
                       Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately
  7   10/12/2014                                       Satisfactory                   0.80
                       Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately                     Moderately
  8   05/27/2015                                                                      1.20
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately                     Moderately
  9   06/29/2015                                                                      1.40
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Prior to signing and
                                                     effectiveness, move fiduciary
                                                     procurement and financial
                                                     management responsibility from
                                                     the Chief of the Cabinet of
 09/05/2011       N        S       S          0.00
                                                     Ministers (JGM) to the
                                                     Secretariat of Environment and
                                                     Sustainable Development
                                                     (SAyDS), the implementing
                                                     agency.
                                                     (a) Extend closing date by 18
 02/15/2013       N       MU     MU           0.30   months, to 11/13/14, and (b)
                                                     revise disbursement estimates.
                                                     (a) Extend closing date by 7.5
                                                     months, to 6/30/2015, (b)
                                                     reallocate proceeds, revise
 12/19/2014       N       MU       S          0.80
                                                     component costs and
                                                     disbursement estimates, and (c)
                                                     revise results framework.



                                             vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Argentina was identified as particularly vulnerable to the impact of climate
change. According to the Second National Communication (SNC, 2008), key climate
vulnerabilities for the period up to 2040 include: increased water stress; intense
precipitation and floods in zones already affected; further glacier retreat; and increased
vulnerability of coastal areas to sea level rise.

2.      National Communications (NCs) are essential compilations of information
that facilitate reaching the ultimate goal of the UNFCCC. Parties to the UNFCCC shall
communicate to the Conference of the Parties (COP), through the Secretariat, the following
information: (a) a national inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals
by sinks of all greenhouse gases (GHG) not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, to the
extent its capacities permit, using agreed upon comparable methodologies; (b) a general
description of steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the Convention; and (c)
any other information the Party considers relevant to the UNFCCC objectives.

3.      The SNC laid a good basis for mainstreaming climate change considerations
into sector policies and strategies. The SNC included:

   Revised emission inventories for the years 1990, 1994, 1997, and 2000. The results
    obtained from these inventories established a solid baseline to facilitate the updating of
    GHG emissions and the analysis of future emissions trends.
   Guidelines for adaptation and mitigation, promoting interactive participation with
    relevant stakeholders, introduction of adaptation to future climate in sectoral
    development agendas, as well as presentation of climate variability.
   Four sectors were analyzed in detail: agriculture, coastal areas, water resources, and
    energy.
   A plan that helped to identify mitigation opportunities focused on energy efficiency
    and savings, renewable energy, the transport sector, and carbon sequestration.
   A high resolution regional circulation model by the Research Center on the Sea and the
    Atmosphere (CIMA), useful for further vulnerability assessments.

4.      By 2009, Argentina’s institutional framework to deal with climate change
related issues had improved. The Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable
Development (SAyDS) was appointed technical focal point for the UNFCCC in 2008, and
the Climate Change Directorate (CCD) was created within. The transition of the SAyDS
into the Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers (JGM) increased its involvement in the
coordination of intersectoral policies. By December 2009, the SAyDS led the process to
create the Governmental Commission on Climate Change (GCCC). It has an
intersecretarial character aimed at discussing and advising on sector issues to ensure
mainstreaming of climate change considerations across institutions of the government of
Argentina (GoA).


                                              1
5.     The project was aligned with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The
World Bank CPS 2010–2012 (Report #48476-AR) highlights that preparing Argentina’s
TNC “is expected to help mainstream climate change considerations in sector planning.”
The project would be complementary to the objectives of the CPS sustainable growth pillar
by generating relevant data for planning in vulnerable sectors and strengthening the
country’s capacity in assessing climate change threats in key sectors.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

6.       As the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) Implementing Agency (IA), the Bank
had already supported delivery of Argentina’s SNC financed by a US$1.14M GEF grant
(P078143). The Bank was well positioned to help deepen the analysis and translate
assessments into strategies on the government’s climate agenda beyond the purpose of the
TNC. The Bank had strong technical expertise in all of the sectors expected to be covered,
and had been deeply engaged in various aspects of the climate change agenda in Latin
America since 1998. It is worth mentioning that a standard NC funding from the GEF
resources for Enabling Activities is US$0.5 million, against the US$2.4 million approved
for this operation that tapped into the Argentine climate change allocation under GEF-4.

7.      The Bank also had a broad (non-climate) lending portfolio in Argentina that could
help enhance coordination and cooperation within and between key agencies and provide
opportunities for information and data sharing. Furthermore, the climate issues and sectors
to be addressed in the TNC were directly relevant to many of the sector priorities of the
2010-2012 CPS, including water supply, urban flooding and drainage, transport,
agricultural growth, and rural poverty alleviation.

1.2 Original Global Environmental Objective (GEO) and Key Indicators

Global Environmental Objective

8.     The GEO2 is “to strengthen the information base and institutional capacity of the
key members of the Steering Committee, in order to integrate climate change priorities into
the Recipient’s development strategies and relevant sector programs by providing
financial and technical support to prepare the Third National Communication (TNC).”

9.      It is important to note that delivery of the TNC itself was not the objective, nor was
the project expected to result in actual integration of climate change priorities into
strategies and sector programs. As reflected in the project design, activities, and results
framework, support for preparation of the TNC was the means through which the project
would help strengthen Argentina’s information base and capacity. The TNC was expected
to be produced in the course of carrying out the project, but was not the final end in itself.

10.     The description of the GEO indicators in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
clarifies that the studies produced in the course of preparing the TNC are intended to


2
    As per the Grant Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)

                                                   2
“inform” institutions and sectors about feasible policies and measures (P&M) and their
potential prioritization to “facilitate” decision making. The project was also expected to
strengthen Argentina’s capacity to “take forward” the P&M proposals and prioritization
recommendations of the studies produced. In other words, the goal was to provide the
necessary information and strengthen the enabling environment for integration of climate
change considerations, but not to produce final strategies and programs that would require
longer-term national discussion, negotiation, deliberation, and formal approval.

11.     The discussion of higher level objectives in the PAD also describes inclusion of
sustainable development and environmental dimensions (including climate change) in
“real public policy” and “at all levels of government action” as a higher level objective that
the project’s outcome supports rather than a direct outcome attributable to the project.

Key Indicators

12.    The original GEO indicators comprised two that related to strengthening the
information base through production of mitigation and adaptation studies, and one for
measuring increased capacity of government institutions and other targeted stakeholders:

   Mitigation studies: Eleven studies available to inform different institutions and sectors
    about feasible mitigation policies and measures (P&M) and their potential prioritization
    to facilitate decision making.
   Adaptation studies: Nine studies available to inform different institutions and sectors
    about feasible adaptation P&M and their potential prioritization to facilitate decision
    making.
   Capacity building: At least 50-75 percent of targeted institutions have improved
    capacity to take proposed mitigation and adaptation P&M forward, and at least 50-75
    percent of other targeted stakeholder groups express increased awareness on climate
    change concerns.

13.     The content of the studies would not merely add to the information base, but would
identify specific potential P&M and recommend priorities. Capacity building outcomes
would be assessed through surveys of the targeted institutions: key participants of the
project Steering Committee (SC) and provincial and municipal institutions, as well as
scientific and technological institutions and private sector and civil society representatives
forming part of the project Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).

14.     The original Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOIs) reflected key aspects to be
provided by the mitigation and adaptation studies, namely GHG intensity of the proposed
mitigation P&M and total cost-benefit of the proposed adaptation P&M. They also
reflected processes (cross-sectoral meetings on policy issues, wide sectoral representation
and climate-related events, and parliamentary discussions) in place through which access
to and dissemination of the information would be facilitated in key sectors that were
expected to further engage in promoting potential mitigation or adaptation actions (5
sectors for mitigation and 11 for adaptation). Regarding strengthened institutional capacity
and project management, the IOIs reflected awareness raising and timely initiation and
delivery of the planned studies. Awareness raising was to be measured through surveys at
                                              3
TNC events, and teachers were identified as one of the groups targeted for greater climate
change awareness.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

15.      GEO: The GEO was not revised.

16.    Indicators: A restructuring approved in December 2014 formally changed or
adjusted all of the indicators, including the main outcome indicators to be the following:

     Biennial Update Report (BUR): A new GEO indicator was added for delivery of
      Argentina’s BUR to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship (MREC, the agency
      responsible for submitting it to the UNFCCC). The BUR was a new UNFCCC
      requirement, established after the project was approved, to report the status of national
      mitigation actions to the UNFCCC.
     Mitigation studies: The indicator description was revised to include management tools
      and/or studies, and their total number was increased from 11 to 19, including the BUR.
      Some of the management tools were already planned, but had been previously counted
      as part of other studies.
     Adaptation studies: The target for adaptation studies was reduced from nine to four (the
      two climate modeling products and the ongoing minor studies on labor impacts and
      social vulnerability).

17.    Capacity building: The original GEO-level capacity building indicator, based on
surveys of targeted stakeholders and decision makers, was dropped. New indicators were
added to track the substantive feedback of relevant SC members on the terms of reference
and draft studies related to their sectors. This was intended to reflect capacity and
engagement, but was included as an intermediate- rather than outcome-level indicator. As
discussed in other sections, after project completion a series of surveys, tailored to different
decision makers, were conducted to gather additional information to help evaluate capacity
building outcomes.

18.     Overall, the revised IOIs were mostly designed to measure implementation
progress. While useful during implementation, they do not add significantly to assessment
after completion. An exception is the SC capacity indicators, which monitor institutional
engagement during implementation and also reflect institutional engagement and capacity
building as an outcome.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

19.    In a short-term and narrow sense, the direct beneficiaries of the project are the
members (understood as the 26 institutions) of the SC that were responsible for overseeing
the political/administrative and technical task of developing of the TNC and more
importantly for developing and implementing the national strategies and programs that the



                                               4
TNC was ultimately intended to help foster.3

20.     In a longer-term and broader sense, the project would benefit a wide range of
stakeholders and the public at large who, as a result of the increased information and
capacity developed by the project, would benefit in the future from well-designed and
prioritized mitigation and adaptation programs across a range of sectors, helping to ensure
that mitigation targets are achieved in the most rational and efficient manner, and that
adaptation investments targeted the most important needs in the most cost-effective way.
Ultimately this would also contribute to achieving the objectives of the global climate
change agenda.

1.5 Original Components

21.      The project had four main components, summarized below.

1) Harnessing National Potential for Climate Change Mitigation (US$0.67 million) with
the following subcomponents: (a) upgrade and development of the recipient’s national
inventory of GHG emissions; (b) identify priority mitigation measures in main economic
and GHG-emitting sectors; (c) enhance the capabilities for the implementation of
mitigation measures, including the delivery of a set of P&M aimed at integrating climate
change into the recipient’s development strategy and sector programs.

2) Strengthening the National Adaptation Agenda (US$1.16 million) with the following
subcomponents: (a) provision of support for the carrying out of socioeconomic and climate
change modeling scenarios; (b) carrying out of studies to further develop priority
adaptation actions in areas identified as most vulnerable; and (c) enhance capabilities for
the implementation of adaptation measures, including the delivery of a set of P&M aimed
at integrating climate change into the recipient’s development strategy and sector programs.




3
 The SC included up to 26 federal authorities relevant to the climate change agenda: Coordinated by the (i)
SAyDS: Argentine Republic’s (ii) Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers; (iii) Secretariat of Energy, (iv) Under-
secretariat of Territorial Planning of Public Investment, and (v) Secretariat of Water Resources, Ministry of
Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services; (vi) Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries,
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries; (vii) Secretariat of Industry, Ministry of Industry; (viii)
Secretariat of Transport and (ix) National Directorate of Civil Protection, Under-secretariat of Provincial
Development and Promotion, Secretariat of Provinces, Ministry of Interior and Transport; (x) General
Directorate of Environment and (xi) National Commission on Space Activities, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and Worship; (xii) Secretariat of Employment, Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security; (xiii)
Secretariat of Planning and Policies in Science, Technology and Innovation, Ministry of Science, Technology
and Innovation; (xiv) Secretariat of Economic Policy and Development Planning, Ministry of Economy and
Public Finance; (xv) Ministry of Education; (xvi) Secretariat of Social Economy, Ministry of Social
Development; (xvii) Secretariat of Health Determinants and Health Relations, Ministry of Health; (xviii)
National Water Institute; (xix) National Institute of Agricultural Technology; (xx) National Institute of
Industrial Technology; (xxi) National Commission on Atomic Energy; (xxii) National Weather Service,
Secretariat of Planning, Ministry of Defense; (xxiii) Federal Council of Environment (COFEMA); (xxiv)
Federal Council of Water; (xxv) National Parks Administration; and (xxvi) National Institute of Fisheries
Research and Development.

                                                     5
3) Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building, Information Mgmt (US$1.09 million)
with the following subcomponents: (a) provision of support to define the technical scope
of activities to be carried out under the TNC; (b) strengthening institutional capacity at the
national, provincial and municipal levels, with regard to the integration of climate data into
sector programs and strategies; and (c) preparation and dissemination of the TNC,
incorporating the conclusions and results reached from implementing project-supported
studies.

4) Project Management (US$0.13 million) for provision of technical and operational
assistance, as necessary, to support adequate project management and coordination by the
PIU and the Steering Committee, including carrying out the project audits.

1.6 Revised Components

22.    The component descriptions and main activities were not changed, but the
December 2014 restructuring noted that the specific studies and analysis to be delivered as
outputs of Component 1 and 2 were revised. This also involved modest adjustment of
corresponding component costs.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

23.    As detailed in Section 2(a) of the grant agreement, prior to effectiveness
responsibility for fiduciary management was consolidated under the SAyDS instead of
following the original plan to split the technical and fiduciary functions between the
SAyDS and General Administration and Technical Directorate (DGTA) of the JGM. The
closing date was extended once by 18 months and a second time by 7.5 months (total of
25.5 months) mainly to make up for the long effectiveness delay but also because of
subsequent procurement and implementation delays. Corresponding adjustments were
made to the disbursement categories and implementation schedule. The extension approval
dates and new closing dates for each extension are listed in both Section H of the Data
Sheet and in Section 2.2 below.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

24.    Lessons from earlier operations. Based on the Bank’s experience implementing
GEF and carbon finance projects and analytical activities on climate change, the project
design followed related lessons learned and, particularly, the following from the Argentina
SNC:

   Quality. High quality consultants and technical close supervision were required to
    develop a high quality NC.
   National Ownership. A strong presence of the SC in all steps to ensure that the final
    products were satisfactory to the involved sectors. The SC complemented and
    supported the technical and institutional role of the PIU. However, the SC did not prove
    functional in managing administrative or procurement responsibilities.
                                              6
   Development of Future Climate Scenarios. To estimate future climatic conditions,
    climate scenarios were developed using a combination of global climate models and
    high-resolution regional models.

25.     Soundness of background analysis. Project preparation relied on related prior
Bank experience. The background analysis was fundamentally sound, especially in
focusing on the importance of a broad information base and participatory approach to help
integrate climate change issues into sector strategies and planning. The right actors and
appropriate mechanisms for their participation were also identified.

26.    Assessment of project design. For a small operation, the final project design
revealed medium complexity and a high degree of ambition, as indicated by the
implementation arrangements and the assessment of risks. Targeted capacity building
proved particularly challenging as it was both a project objective and an implementation
design feature.

   Institutional arrangements at entry were sound. Project management was a
    technical component under the responsibility of the SAyDS through its CCD and
    strengthened with a sole-purpose PIU, and an administrative, procurement and
    financial management component under the responsibility of the DGTA/JGM. Before
    effectiveness, the fiduciary part was transferred to the SAyDS. To provide coordination
    and strategic guidance, the existing inter-ministerial GCCC was assigned as the project
    SC. It was assigned no administrative or procurement responsibilities, as suggested
    through the SNC lessons learned. The TAC was established to support the PIU in
    technical and scientific issues, and to create an open space for the participation and
    ownership of scientific and technical institutions, NGOs, civil society, trade unions,
    and representatives from the private sector. An important member of the SC is the
    Federal Council of Environment (COFEMA), which serves as the key space for
    consultation, collaboration, and coordination between the federal government and
    provinces on environmental issues (the 23 provinces and one autonomous city are
    grouped into six COFEMA regions).

   Critical risks identified. The main risks identified were (a) institutional and
    coordination: studies and project activities cannot be completed because of limited
    institutional support, lack of dissemination of results, and insufficient coordination of
    inputs; (b) limited implementation experience of the SAyDS; (c) substantial risk of cost
    overruns and a short implementation period, including possible need to extend the
    implementation period; (d) general financial management risks in the public sector; and
    (e) procurement risks given the lack of experience of the DGTA/JGM in Bank-financed
    projects and in managing procurement using Bank procedures, as well as the significant
    number of contracts to be carried out in a short time. While the planned mitigation
    measures are too extensive to detail here, they included mechanisms for strong
    coordination and interinstitutional engagements (particularly the SC and its TAC),
    intensive and detailed implementation planning, and enhanced control frameworks and
    training to mitigate risks related to implementation experience, costs, financial
    management, and procurement.


                                             7
   Critical risks not identified. In hindsight, the following risks were either not identified
    or were underestimated: (a) the original two-year implementation period was not
    realistic taken the risks implied by procurement of technically demanding studies that
    needed specific sequencing as the adaptation studies depended on the climate modeling
    results and the final P&M study on all the other studies; (b) implementation delays
    associated with public processes and procedures and with Bank internal rules and
    procedures associated with project restructuring; (c) difficulty hiring key experienced
    personnel due to the need to use government hiring guidelines (limited payments and
    fringe benefits); and (d) delays associated with changes in some high-level appointees
    with key roles in the implementation structure (who also brought differing visions of
    project implementation priorities).

2.2 Implementation

27.     Seeking political, interinstitutional and strategic buy-in; the role of the SC,
TAC and COFEMA. The implementation arrangements highly benefited from the
selection of the existing GCCC as the project SC. Created in 2009, the GCCC includes
member entities from practically all related government agencies. The SAyDS identified
key agencies for each TNC study to focus related coordination, collaboration, and
monitoring efforts. The SC was fundamental to strengthening the operational relation
between the PIU and the technical sector leaders, enhancing the terms of reference (ToRs)
for consultancies, easing access to data and information, and cross-fertilizing members’
shared need to strengthening their institutional capacity to integrate climate change
considerations in their sector activities. The TAC brought in the views of civil society and
served as platform for promoting awareness and dissemination. COFEMA voiced a strong
interest in and demand for a greater involvement in project implementation early on. To
complete the original institutional structure, the SAyDS asked the provinces to officially
nominate technical focal points for the TNC. A group was formed and operated actively
with representation by 22 officially nominated focal points out of the 23 provinces and the
autonomous city of Buenos Aires.

28.     Initial delays in declaring the project effective and getting it operational. The
project did not become effective until 18 months after approval and the designated account
was not established for another five months. This meant that a project designed with a 25-
month implementation period did not start implementation until 23 months after approval.
Furthermore, the first major procurement activity, contracting CIMA for the critical climate
modeling study needed for subsequent vulnerability, impact, and adaptation studies, took
nine months. These delays, and the resulting time and effort needed to negotiate and
process closing date extensions, constrained implementation, and complicated
procurement for contracts that involved a delivery date beyond the prevailing closing date,
all created an environment of permanent tension and uncertainty in the PIU. Ultimately a
number of studies were dropped due to insufficient time to complete the planned contracts,
and almost 43 percent of the GEF financing was undisbursed, including much of the
financing for dissemination, consultation, and socialization activities in Component 3 that
would have contributed to moving from analysis and proposals to strategies and programs.



                                              8
29.     Continued delays jeopardized the project. Although the core PIU staffing met
the Bank requirements for effectiveness, full project staff recruitment and contracting could
not be finalized until after the designated account was established, allowing disbursements
to begin. In addition, while basic procurement staffing was in place, the PIU was never
able to recruit a full-time procurement specialist or a coordinator with the type of
experience (particularly with Bank projects), political authority, and strong substantive
knowledge that could have helped overcome some of the project’s procurement related and
other hurdles and delays.

30.     Restructuring (05-Sep-2011; 15-Feb-2013; and combined 13-Nov and 19-Dec-
2014). As mentioned in Section 1.7, prior to effectiveness the project was restructured (on
Sep 5, 2011) to consolidate project financial management and procurement processes in
SAyDS rather than assigning them to the JGM. Due to the previously described
effectiveness lag and other delays, on Feb 15, 2013 the project closing date was extended
by 18 months, to Nov 13, 2014. A second extension, of 7.5 months, was approved on Nov
13, 2014, making the new closing date June 30, 2015. A longer initial extension would
likely have smoothed implementation and saved the project from later complications and
delays caused by uncertainty about the closing date and the need to renegotiate and rework
the restructuring plans and proposals (prepared after the September 2013 MTR) based on
a shorter extension than originally proposed. The extension was approved on Nov 13,
2014as documented in project files, and was included as part of the broader level-2
restructuring (described in sections 1.3 and 1.6) that was approved on Dec 19, 2014 and
recorded in Bank systems.

31.     MTR key findings. The MTR took place from April 2013 to September 2013. It
proposed revisions to the results framework (RF) to adjust the GEO indicators and to better
communicate implementation progress through more process-oriented IOIs. The MTR also
highlighted weaknesses in procurement capacity and related administrative processes at
the higher levels of the SAyDS. The MTR proposed additional training to all PIU personnel
and a detailed chronogram and action plan were agreed to keep up with project execution.
Further, application of additional GEF funding to prepare the Argentine Republic’s first
BUR to the UNFCCC was agreed upon as an additional activity under Component 1; a new
responsibility for the non-Annex I Parties fully in line with the ongoing GHG inventory
and mitigation studies.

32.     Implementation agreement and governance. Project implementation was
assigned to the SAyDS where the PIU was in charge of and successful in coordinating
activities with a number of ministries and other governmental entities. The PIU developed
an approach and tools to productively engage the SC and TAC and capture its members’
interest by making them a fundamental part of delivering the studies. The SC was entrusted
with providing guidance on assuring overall quality and sector-specific usefulness and
appropriateness of the studies. The project can be acknowledged for having been able to
strengthen the open space for interinstitutional dialogue and analysis on climate change
issues relevant to a wide set of participants, including civil society.

33.     Government commitment. The GoA’s commitment to the project, although rated
satisfactory in the implementation status and results reports, lacked strong political priority
and management oversight until April 2014. The delay in making the project effective and
                                             9
starting its implementation reflected a lack of active government attention during the first
two years after approval. The GoA complied with the expected counterpart funding in
terms of in-kind contributions of staff time, office space, and related facilities and services
(see Annex 1). In April 2014, anticipating the need to request a second closing date
extension, the SAyDS with the support of the SC, organized a high-level inter-institutional
meeting in support of the National Climate Change Strategy. In addition to the SAyDS, 20
relevant entities signed a “declaration of interest” in which the TNC was named as one of
the key ongoing activities. From that point on government engagement and commitment
was more proactive and consistent, particularly as demonstrated by the strong support
provided by the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance and the JGM.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.      Design: Capturing some aspects of the GEO in the design of the M&E system and
results framework proved challenging, particularly the objective of strengthening
institutional capacity. The information base objective in the GEO was divided into
mitigation and adaptation, the latter including climate modeling at the regional level.
Although the GEO links the strengthened information and capacity to the goal of
mainstreaming climate change in national sector strategies and programs, the
mainstreaming itself is meant as a higher-level objective. The initial RF highlights the need
to generate useful information to provide selected sectors with feasible
mitigation/adaptation P&M (specific actions) and their prioritization to facilitate decision
making. It also calls for assessing the change in institutional capacity needed to take the
proposed P&M forward. These objectives present some inherent difficulties as far as
developing specific, measurable, and attributable indicators. Despite these challenges, the
initial key indicators did a reasonable job of capturing the essence of the project objectives.
Two key indicators were devoted to measuring the change in the information base for
mitigation and adaptation respectively, and a third was to assess changes in the institutional
capacity of targeted groups.

35.     Implementation: The indicator for capacity proved difficult to implement, had no
actual baseline value, and ultimately was not used during implementation. By the MTR,
major delays with getting the project operational shifted the monitoring focus to simply
measuring progress towards completing the tasks as per the agreed schedule. The initial
indicators were oriented to final products/outcomes, and operationalizing them to serve as
continued progress monitoring indicators was needed during implementation. The revised
indicators included tracking the participation of key stakeholders in contributing to ToRs
and study reports. The application of the progress indicators started after the MTR as all
the efforts focused on keeping to the adjusted timeline for project execution. Ultimately,
measuring institutional capacity is a difficult and also elusive task, given the
interinstitutional setting, and neither the original nor the revised RF provided a robust way
to directly measure capacity as opposed to outputs and implementation progress. As a result,
the assessment of capacity in Section 3.2 is based mainly on qualitative evaluation and
surveys rather than quantitative indicators.

36.    Utilization: Realization that procurement of studies and their preparation was
chronically behind schedule led to ongoing reassessment of what deliverables were feasible.

                                              10
The revised indicators at the end reflected the assessment at that time of what was
achievable given the new closing date. Further, they responded to the project’s need for
indicators to closely monitor implementation progress itself to ensure that there was no
further slippage from revised schedule.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.     Safeguards. In material terms, the project was to carry out studies leading to the
development of the TNC and contribute to climate-smart sector planning. While the studies
were expected to identify or propose specific potential mitigation and adaptation actions
and P&M, no civil works or remediation activities were to be financed or actual sector
policies implemented. Therefore, none of the Bank's safeguard policies were triggered and
no environmental impact assessment was required (project EA Category C). The GoA’s
future climate programs would eventually have safeguards implications, but this was not
within the project scope as per the Bank safeguards interpretation.

38.    Financial Management. During project preparation all financial management
(FM) activities were assigned to the DGTA of the JGM. Throughout the entire
implementation period, the FM rating ranged from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory.
The moderately satisfactory ratings were mainly related to the requirement (Presidential
Decree 577/03), applicable to all Bank-financed projects, that individual consultant
contracts be endorsed by the Chief of Cabinet. The project complied with this strict
requirement, usually a formality, for the 2012 contracts, but, with the government’s
knowledge and informal agreement, not in subsequent years. This did not have negative
consequences for the project or constitute a compliance issue in terms of Bank FM
requirements. The 2013 audit report by Argentina’s national General Audit Office, though
delayed, was acceptable to the Bank and was unqualified. A FM mission two months before
closing concluded that the PIU continued operating well and needed only moderate
supervision. As per an exception granted by the Bank, the final audit report will cover the
operations from January 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015, as well as the grace period that ended
on October 31, 2015. Said report was due by December 31, 2015.

39.     Procurement Management. Procurement management was originally assigned to
the DGTA, but prior to effectiveness was shifted to the SAyDS to consolidate and
streamline key project management responsibilities within a single institution while at the
same time creating new management capacity within the CCD/SAyDS. To support
implementation, the project sought to hire a procurement specialist with proven experience
with Bank’s procedures. However, according to the PIU/SAyDS, attracting a suitable
specialist proved difficult due to the low salary level allowed under the legal framework
governing provision of professional services for the GoA. Lack of a full-time specialist
with this particular type of experience and qualifications led to shortcomings in identifying
the most appropriate methods and categories for each of the financed studies and affected
the quality of documentation and duration of the processes. During the initial stages of
implementation the PIU relied on procurement support by another Bank PIU (National
Urban Solid Waste Management Project/GIRSU, P089926). The arrangement only
partially addressed the project’s needs and still required substantial additional effort by
technical PIU staff who had to assume work on top of their usual responsibilities and

                                             11
beyond their baseline capacities. After the MTR, the Bank organized a series of
procurement training sessions and the SAyDS first brought on an additional full-time
procurement trainee and later an administrative assistant with procurement know-how and
Bank project experience. These measures further improved but did not fully address the
project’s procurement management needs.

40.     In addition to the slow implementation in the early stages of the project,
procurement was also delayed during the latter half of 2014 because of uncertainty
associated with the second extension. The delay in processing of the extension (due to a
combination of government and Bank procedural issues) brought procurement to a
standstill, and the shorter than expected length of the extension eventually approved
required a reduction in the scope of many activities and cut short some deliverables, such
as the final study on P&M. The shorter implementation period also meant several studies
planned for consulting firms or universities were instead contracted to individual
consultants who could be hired more quickly.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     Post-completion operation in terms of the government’s capacity to prepare and
deliver UNFCCC reports has been strong. The TNC and BUR reports form part of the
international UNFCCC obligations of the GoA (as they do for any Party to the UNFCCC).
By their character, the two reports are supposed to be produced periodically, so they
inherently imply an expectation of continued work. In practice, this is evidenced in a
number of references to the Fourth National Communication in the ToRs of some of the
TNC studies. Compared with the SNC, in which execution was externalized to a foundation,
the TNC was administered fully in-house at the SAyDS. That is considered a strength of
the project design, aimed at providing continuation and sustainability to NC (and BUR)
preparation, and addressing the fundamental challenge of strengthening the capacity to not
only report and make commitments, but to develop and implement the programs and
measures needed to achieve them.

42.     Once it became clear that the project had run out of time to complete the planned
reports and some of the underlying studies, and the Bank did not embrace a further closing
date extension, the SAyDS embarked on a strong effort to find alternative funding to
complete the TNC and BUR reports. At the end, almost all of the PIU consultants were
contracted to continue their work, contributing, among other things, to the preparation and
timely submission of Argentina’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC)
report, which were the central focus of the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) and the
foundation of the UNFCCC’s approach going forward. Three additional consultants were
hired with funding by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
(ECLAC) to complete the TNC and BUR reports, both of which were submitted to the
UNFCCC on December 9, 2015. Although completed with other donor financing, most of
the analysis involved in their preparation was developed by the project.

43.    Further, the BUR grant that the GEF initially approved as additional financing for
the TNC needed to be transferred to UNDP, due to the Ministry of Economy and Public
Finance decision that it would require a separate Presidential Decree for national approval.
The BUR funds administered by UNDP will finance the second Argentina BUR and
                                             12
directly facilitate staff and capacity continuation and strengthening within the SAyDS.

44.     The area of post-completion activity that is less clear, is whether the information,
and in particular the commitments in the INDC, can be integrated into actual sector
programs and strategies that deliver on the targeted reductions. This is the central question
in the wake of COP21 for all parties (apart from whether the INDCs, if achieved, are
sufficient). In this respect, while the capacity building objectives of the project were only
modestly achieved and many related activities were not completed (particularly wide
public consultations and interagency workshops), as a result of the project, Argentina is at
least a clear step ahead in embarking on this challenging next phase of the global climate
change agenda.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

45.     Objectives. The relevance of project objectives at completion is still rated high.
Given the ever growing concern with addressing climate change, worsening projections,
and the international consensus that emerged from COP21 on using the parties’ INDCs as
the point around which to focus national efforts to achieve needed emission reductions, the
relevance of the project’s objectives has increased. Relevance relates most immediately
with strengthening Argentina’s capacity to develop and implement strategies and programs
that integrate climate change considerations. In the longer term, it relates with achieving
the higher level objectives of actually limiting emissions and contributing to international
reduction goal and reducing the climate vulnerability of key sectors and population groups.
Augmenting the climate-related information base and strengthening institutional capacity
of key sector agencies are at the core of these efforts and the first of many challenging steps.
The current Bank Country Program Strategy (CPS) for fiscal years 2015-18 identifies
climate change as one of the key action areas. The Results Area 3 seeks to raise agricultural
productivity of small- and medium-size farms in low-income regions. More specifically,
the engagement in agriculture will continue with a narrower focus on the twin challenges
of increasing the productivity of small- and medium-size farms and adapting to climate
change. These activities benefit from the TNC results. Furthermore, the Bank expects to
continue providing assistance to the country in key areas such as energy efficiency,
sustainable transport and waste management; all these topics highlight the relevance of the
project objective.

46.    Design. The relevance of the project design and implementation is substantial, with
shortcomings on the clarity of the RF, insufficient period for implementation, and inability
to complete all planned investments and activities. The selection of lending instrument,
implementing agency, and most activities and design elements were and remain relevant.
Regardless of its challenges, inter-ministerial collaboration and coordination was a critical
foundation for the project design to achieve the objectives even if there were shortcomings
during implementation. At the international level, key adjustments took place within the
UNFCCC framework between the project preparation and closure—specifically, the new
requirements on Biennial Update Reports and thus greater continuity of collection of
climate information, and the INDCs that were central inputs to COP21. Instead of finding

                                              13
itself outdated, the project was able to adjust and provide critical input for both new
requirements. The relevance of the design to achieving the objectives was still substantial,
even if the goals were ambitious and the hurdles more challenging than expected.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

47.    As discussed in Section 1.2, the objective was neither to merely prepare and deliver
the TNC (too modest) nor to actually integrate climate change priorities into national
development strategies and sector programs (unrealistically ambitious). Rather, the goal
was to strengthen the information base and institutional capacity needed to set Argentina
on the path toward integrating climate change priorities into strategies and programs that
would achieve its longer term climate mitigation and adaptation goals.

48.     Efficacy in achieving the information base objective is rated substantial, while
achievement of the capacity goal is rated modest because the outcome in this regard was
weaker and inherently more difficult to measure. While the TNC was not completed by
project closing, the underlying studies were mostly completed and the government’s ability
to use the information developed by the project to deliver not only the TNC but also the
BUR and the INDC in the months after completion demonstrated its capacity to meet its
UNFCCC obligations, though this in itself did not provide strong evidence of its capacity
to implement the programs needed to achieve the stated objectives.

Main Objectives

49.     Information base. Efficacy in strengthening Argentina’s climate change
information base was substantial. Among the most important contributions of the project
in this regard are the preparation of regional climate change scenarios and the
accompanying database that presents the underlying information and results of computer
simulations, past climate conditions, and future climate scenarios. The database covers 11
indicators used to assess climate extremes and their expected change for two periods: near
term, defined as the expected conditions between 2011 and 2039, and end of century
estimates for the period 2075 to 2099. All the information is freely available through the
Internet, including tools and guidance for users. This is a major contribution that provides
Argentina with science-based guidance for the selection of climate change scenarios for
planning purposes. The project also provided the country with the analysis of GHG
emissions in all contributing sectors (energy; industrial processes and product use;
agriculture, forestry and other land use; and waste) and the identification of mitigation
actions in 10 priority economic activities. Furthermore, the project contributed with climate
vulnerability assessments for each of the four regions in the country (Cordilleran,
Patagonia, Central and Argentine Sea and Coastal Areas), including the identification and
preliminary prioritization of adaptation measures in key socioeconomic sectors. The
specific numbers and content of the mitigation and impact, vulnerability and adaptation
studies is discussed below, and presented in detail in Annex 2.

50.     While the number of studies produced for both mitigation and adaptation (outcome
indicators 1 and 2) were close to or even exceeded the original and revised targets in the
RF, an important consideration is whether the nature and quality of the reports added the
kind of information needed to achieve the goal of enhancing the government’s ability to
                                           14
integrate climate considerations into national development planning and programs. The
quality and completeness of the studies was generally satisfactory, and the outputs were
particularly good in the areas of climate modeling, GHG inventory, and mitigation aspects.
For the adaptation studies, due to the short implementation period left for their delivery
following the project restructuring, some aspects of the analysis were not as fully
developed as envisioned in the original project design (for example, in recommending
prioritization of the options that were identified or in fully capturing and quantifying all of
their potential costs and benefits). Also, the final study on mitigation and adaptation P&M,
as well as adaptation studies on some sectors such as water resources, urban planning and
health could not be carried out before the project closed. While most of the studies were
not finalized early enough to become part of a broad public consultation or discussion
before the project closed, as originally hoped, this does not diminish the value of the
information or achievement of the information base objective itself. Further, some
adaptation studies on key sectors such as water resources, urban planning and health could
not be conducted, as neither the final study on mitigation and adaptation P&M. The time
ran out to complete the sector studies and then design, award, and complete the final study.
The studies and analysis delivered still represent a significant contribution and
improvement to Argentina’s information base. They help frame policy options and provide
enough specifics to facilitate the robust discussion about intersectoral strategies, tradeoffs,
and practical implementation issues that is needed as part of the government’s effort to
design and implement effective strategies and programs.

51.    Institutional capacity among key members of the Steering Committee. The
GCCC was selected to act as the project SC. This was an ideal choice because since 2009
the GCCC was already serving as the government’s key inter-ministerial body on climate
change, participating in drafting a national climate change strategy, and guided the
preparation of national documents associated with the UNFCCC process. The GCCC’s
members already included most of the GoA ministries and institutions whose
representatives were expected to serve on the project SC.

52.     As reflected in the revised IOIs, institutional capacity was indirectly measured in
terms of the agencies’ substantive engagement in the process of contracting and reviewing
the studies related to preparing the TNC. The PIU sought inputs from the SC members, as
well as from the TAC and COFEMA, on the ToRs for all the planned studies and solicited
feedback on their progress and the draft final reports that were delivered. The ToRs and
completed studies were distributed to all SC members and alternates and were discussed in
full SC meetings. Each study identified a subset of key agencies whose review and
feedback were considered the most critical, and these key agencies all provided relevant
comments on each corresponding study.

53.    This process exposed the SC and other members to a holistic view of climate
change; the assessment of GHG emissions and vulnerability of key sectors, as well as
preliminary identification of relevant measures to incorporate climate change
considerations into sector programs and strategies. As discussed below, although most SC
members rated their own participation as moderate, the majority still rated the knowledge
and understanding of climate issues gained as satisfactory or higher.

54.    Although the original indicator involving surveys of the targeted institutions’
                                         15
perception of their capacity was dropped, in-depth interviews with a limited number of SC
members and an on-line survey conducted after the project closed suggest that most
members were satisfied with the personal learning gained through the participation in the
project, and particularly in terms of the availability of quality of official information and
tools that were generated to help integrate climate change considerations within the
institutions they represent.

55.     However, only 33 percent of SC members rated the increase in capacity to address
mitigation or adaptation measures in their agency/province/organization as satisfactory,
while 56 percent said it was modest. Respondents from COFEMA and the TAC were much
more positive, with 71 percent and 100 percent expressing satisfaction. COFEMA and
TAC members were also more positive about the quality of the final studies in
strengthening the national information base. In one of the comments, a COFEMA
representative noted that there still is no “overall policy coordination or action in our
province to bring the project findings and recommendations forward” and “it takes time to
assimilate these results and transform them into concrete action steps”. This suggests
partial achievement of the project objective of strengthening capacity, but first and
foremost the need for further work to truly bridge the gap from information and analysis to
tangible programs and projects (the next step beyond the project). A detailed breakdown
of the survey results is in Annex 5.

56.    Further, the participation of COFEMA in the SC and the designation of a group of
provincial focal points to follow the TNC preparation, in continued interaction with the
PIU/SAyDS staff and a couple of the project training events organized for them, helped
provide provincial level capacity building. This collaboration exceeded the originally
planned scope of the SC’s work and generated a lot of positive feedback. Further,
presentation of and discussions on project results at the provincial level also served to
disseminate information tools and contacts, though not as extensively as originally planned
in Component 3.

57.      Many of the Component 3 activities intended to expand dissemination and capacity
building beyond the SC and TAC members to provincial and even municipal governments,
as well as to other key stakeholders in academia, technical fields, public education
(teachers), private sector, and the general public, were not carried out. In large part this was
because the time ran out for events that were to be based on the TNC report, or at least the
supporting studies. Toward the end of the Project, intense efforts focused on finalizing the
studies. However, the PIU/SAyDS staff made a particular effort to complete a round of
presentations on the project results in the six COFEMA regions, and organized a final
presentation in Buenos Aires. While the targeted dissemination and awareness raising
activities would have contributed to smoothing the way for broad public acceptance and
support for climate-sensitive P&M, they would not have affected the SC members’
capacity to develop such programs, though they might have enhanced their political
feasibility and even their popular demand. Those Component 3 activities were related to
achievement of the project objectives as a step toward helping to translate studies and
information into the development of specific programs.

58.     As the international climate regime within the UNFCCC framework evolved after
the project design and approval between the sixteenth session of the COP in late 2010 in
                                            16
Cancun and the COP21 in December 2015 in Paris, the project scope responded allowing
the GoA to deliver key UNFCCC contributions: In COP16 it was decided that developing
countries, consistent with their capabilities and the level of support provided, should submit
BURs, and COP17 decided upon the related guidelines and that the first BURs would be
expected by December 2014.4 During the project MTR process, the SAyDS proposed and
the Bank accepted to act as the GEF implementing agency for the first Argentina BUR,
taken the tight interrelation and synergies between the TNC and the expected BUR content.

59.     Consequently, a BUR proposal was prepared as additional financing to the project
and the GEF approved it in January 2014. However, internal processes within the GoA did
not result in a feasible way to finally operationalize the funds. It was decided the Project
finances the key BUR substance 5 and prepares the respective report with its existing
funding, including savings incurred with the exchange rate. The Bank transferred the
approved GEF funds to UNDP and, in coordination with the GEF Secretariat, they were
assigned to prepare the second Argentine BUR. The Project produced the content material
to meet the specific BUR requirements, including 2010 GHG inventories for purposes of
international comparability. As the BUR parts were finalized at the project closure, the
compilation of the actual BUR report was carried out during the second half of 2015 with
ECLAC funding and submitted to the UNFCCC during COP21.

60.     More importantly, the project delivered critical inputs for preparation of
Argentina’s “Intended Nationally Determined Contribution” (INDC), a new UNFCCC
requirement initiated under the Warsaw Agreements (COP19) in late 2013, as part of the
preparation for the first global deal, partly binding, partly voluntary, for all countries to
commit to cut carbon emissions at COP21 in Paris (December 2015). The Paris Agreement
aims at keeping the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2°C above
preindustrial levels. The INDCs are domestic actions to be carried out by each Party to
strengthen its contribution to limiting GHG emissions. Argentina’s INDC, delivered on
October 1, 20156, was incorporated into the UNFCCC Secretariat’s synthesis report on the
aggregate effect of the INDCs. The report was the key focus of discussions at COP21 and
the resulting Paris Agreement scheduled to enter into force in 2020.

61.     For the INDCs, beyond the critical study inputs and the participatory approach used
to deliver them by the TNC project, the SAyDS also relied on German funding from a
UNDP project for Low Emission Capacity Building. The Argentina INDC sets a basic goal
of reducing national GHG emissions 15 percent by 2030 relative to projected business-as-
usual emissions, and a conditional goal of reducing projected emissions by another 15
percent if there is (a) adequate and predictable international financing, (b) support for
transfer, innovation and technology development, and (c) support for capacity building.


4
  In practice, only 10 countries submitted their first BUR before or in December 2014, including Andorra,
Brazil, Chile, Namibia, Peru, Republic of Korea, Singapore, South Korea, Tunisia, and Viet Nam.
5
  The BUR part on information on domestic Measurement, Reporting and Verification (MRV) was postponed
for the second BUR as the TNC didn’t cover the topic and couldn’t accommodate the necessary inputs for
the same.
6
  A non-official English translation of the Argentine INDC is available at the UNFCCC website at:
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Argentina/1/Argentina%20INDC%2
0Non-Official%20Translation.pdf
                                                   17
The goal includes, inter alia, actions linked to promotion of: sustainable forest management,
energy efficiency, biofuels, nuclear power, renewable energy, and transport modal shift.
The criteria for selecting the actions include the potential for reducing/capturing GHG
emissions and associate co-benefits, as well as the possibility of applying nationally
developed technologies.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Modest

62.      A formal economic analysis for the investment was not done at project appraisal or
completion, as it is not possible to calculate or estimate the traditional measures of
economic efficiency or impacts of a number of studies and related capacity building and
awareness raising action. Further, the project’s efficiency in timely and orderly
implementation and delivery of outputs was inadequate. These aspects are discussed in
detail in Sections 5.1 and 5.2, on Bank and Recipient performance assessment. Instead, the
project efficiency is assessed in terms of the cost and efficiency of delivering project
outputs rather than their economic or financial costs and benefits. Further, considering the
project’s primary nature as a GEF enabling activity, despite the continued delays, it did
provide reasonable “value for money.”

63.     In contrast to the SNC, which was prepared by a foundation, the TNC for the first
time was made by the government agency responsible for producing the report required by
the UNFCCC. This comprised part of the efficiency, but particularly from the government
point of view, it was a challenge worth taking as the government was able to carry both the
technical leadership and fiduciary responsibilities for the TNC preparation. Since capacity
building and institutional strengthening had such a core weight in the project design,
project efficiency is valued in terms of the resources well used for the intended purpose of
allowing the government to take ownership of preparation of national communications.

64.     Efficiency is also assessed, in this case, by the costs avoided due to the availability
of the information produced. Simultaneous preparation of national and regionally
applicable climate change scenarios, as well as their open and free availability, is highly
efficient. Otherwise, each sector and climate change study would be forced to create future
climate scenarios without the consistency and coherence that the national effort allowed.
Furthermore, some efficiencies were also gained through parallel preparation of sector
studies under the guidance of a single implementing agency and steering committee.

65.     Despite these positive considerations related to efficiency, the most salient aspects
in terms of efficiency are the extensive delays and inability to complete all of the planned
project investments, which substantially compromised the project’s efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

66.     Justification for the overall outcome rating is based on (a) high relevance of
objectives and substantial relevance of project design, (b) substantial efficacy in achieving
                                             18
the objective of strengthening Argentina’s information base and modest efficacy in
strengthening institutional capacity, and (c) modest efficiency.

67.     The ICR’s assessment is that the overall rating is MU because the most critical
objective of increasing capacity is rated as modest, and relevance of project design and
implementation are rated as substantial.

68.     While the project indicators were formally revised, including some key targets for
information indicators, ultimately the objectives themselves were not changed, and the
numbers of outputs achieved were in line with the targets originally set. Changes in
indicators related to capacity were mostly intended to develop a more feasible or
monitorable way of measuring achievement of the objective and did not change how the
objective was defined. Although not included in the formal RF, the project still carried out
subjective surveys and evaluations that were similar to, but not as extensive as those in the
original RF. In short, the revisions in the RF alone do not necessitate a split assessment of
the overall outcome and subratings against the “original” and revised project, and if such
an evaluation were undertaken the assessments would be the same.

69.       To conclude, the rating of the overall outcome considers the following:

         The high relevance of the project objectives that increased during project
          implementation and is still applicable at completion, as discussed in section 3.1.
         The efficacy rating on the achievement of the main outcomes is substantial for the
          information base and modest for strengthened capacity. The information base was
          enhanced, although not to the ambitious extent initially conceived. This shortfall is
          most pronounced regarding the preparation of sector or national policies and the
          characterization of specific measures for implementation. Institutional capacity
          building is rated substantial for the SAyDS and modest for the SC and TAC
          members and COFEMA focal points. Regarding other initial target groups such as
          teachers and municipal level decision-makers, capacity building remained
          negligible.
         The project resulted in modest efficiency. Despite the longer than expected time it
          took to develop the products and outcomes achieved, a major capacity gain was
          achieved as the government assumed the lead in preparing national
          communications. Further, the products significantly reduce the costs of further
          climate studies and analysis. The studies provide consistency and coherence in
          gathering data and nationally vetted information on sources of GHG emissions and
          climate change vulnerabilities. Importantly, they offer a single set of well-defined
          and robust climate change scenarios covering the entire country.
         A significant shortcoming was the 43 percent undisbursed balance, mainly
          allocated to Component 2 (adaptation studies) and Component 3 (dissemination and
          capacity building). The effect of this shortfall in spending is reflected in Section 3.2
          that identifies substantial but not major shortcomings in the delivery of adaptation
          reports and explains the weaker linkage of many of the dissemination and capacity
          activities, when assessed against the RF. The latter aimed, however, at achieving a
          relevant UNFCCC goal on increased public awareness.


                                                19
      Despite said shortcomings, the project provided critical inputs for the Argentine
       INDC, as well as the first BUR and the TNC. The project was able to strengthen
       the GoA’s ability to respond to the evolving UNFCCC requirements. Further, the
       GoA completed the actual TNC and BUR reports, albeit after the project closed.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.     Since the project involved production of studies and capacity building mainly for
GoA agencies, there were no direct poverty, gender, or social development impacts, even
though project outputs included studies on labor impacts and social vulnerability to climate
change. The longer term goals—integrating mitigation and adaptation P&M into GoA
programs—are expected to eventually have positive effects, particularly for vulnerable
populations and others directly dependent on natural resources that might be adversely
affected by climate change.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

71.     Institutional strengthening with focus on moving climate mitigation and adaptation
P&M forward was described and analyzed in Section 3.2. Here, potential long-term
impacts associated with the execution of the Argentine TNC are explored. More precisely,
reference is made to the role played by the SC and public universities and foundations. The
SAyDS’s capacity was strengthened in terms of developing and testing methodologies and
tools to facilitate a more sustainable and onging monitoring and reporting system through
interinstitutional and participatory collaboration to both comply with evolving UNFCCC
information and action needs and, at the same time, contribute toward formulation of
national P&M.

72.     The SC grew from the GCCC. The GCCC and the PIU adopted a work program
that gave the former greater responsibility for guiding the TNC, verifying the relevance
and quality of the works, and creating, within the organizations they represented, a
technical support group to respond to the demands emanating from their active
participation in the SC. The GCCC confronted a great challenge and responded in an
effective and efficacious way. The GCCC will continue its work as the designated entity
to guide/support Argentina’s national commitments to the UNFCCC. Through the project,
several lessons were learned, including the importance of exploring climate change in a
multidisciplinary and multi-sectoral way. Furthermore, key institutions created a cadre of
professionals supporting the activities emanating from the GCCC/SC. The project also
worked with several universities and research centers conducting works on climate
modeling, mitigation and adaptation. Technical reports, workshops and seminars, as well
as scientific publications represent deliverables confirming the strengthening of these
universities and research centers in climate change science and practice. Thus, the project
built long-term institutional capacity.



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
                                     20
73.     No unintended outcomes or impacts were identified.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

74.     The Bank team developed and processed a qualitative on-line survey to collect
opinions and perceptions on the TNC final results and the project. Responses were solicited
during late October and early November 2015. Of the 81 individuals contacted (43 SC and
16 TAC members and alternates and 22 COFEMA focal points), 24 responded (30 percent).
The responses included ten from the SC members (representing nine government agencies),
nine from COFEMA, and five from the TAC (two each from civil society and
research/academic representatives and one from a labor organization). Overall, the results
do not allow broad or solid conclusions, but they do provide valuable qualitative input to
assessing the project results. Regarding the respondents’ valuation of the level of greater
capacity to address mitigation or adaptation P&M by their own agency, province, or
organization, 33 percent of the nine responding SC representatives stated a satisfactory
level of capacity increase and 56 percent a modest level; in the case of COFEMA, 71
percent of the seven respondents to the question stated a satisfactory or highly satisfactory
level, and 100 percent of the five responding TAC representatives stated a satisfactory level.
See further results in Annex 5 on Beneficiary Survey Results.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

75.     Since the disclosure of the results of the climate modeling study by CIMA in
September 2014, the TNC received remarkable media attention7 and contributed to raising
awareness and creating nationally/regionally focused knowledge on expected climate
impacts. In a survey conducted in August-September 2015 as part of the INDC
preparation,8 77 percent of 2,491 respondents stated being “very concerned” about climate
change impacts, and a further 20 percent “somewhat concerned.” Also, 88 percent said that
national action ought to address both mitigation and adaptation. Out of 2,211 respondents,
58 percent said they thought that Argentina should do more to combat climate change than
what its share of the global GHG emissions (1 percent) would imply; 36 percent stated that
the mitigation share ought to be proportional to the emissions.

76.    A new government took office in December 2015. During the election campaign,
climate change gained visibility. Also, the UNFCCC process is advancing towards stronger
national contributions across the globe. Regarding direct continuation of the project




7
  A compilation of published articles and radio programs is available at the SAyDS project website at:
http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/?idarticulo=13003

8

http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/archivos/web/contribuciones/file/Resultados%20Encuesta_%20P%C3%BAbli
co%20general.pdf

                                                 21
activities, the SAyDS and UNDP initiated preparation of BUR2 in August 2015; an activity
that will continue to strengthen the SAyDS capacity to provide for continued and multi-
sectoral monitoring and collection of climate change related data, and the Fourth National
Communication will follow suit. In all, the risk to the project development outcome is
considered moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

77.     The Bank’s involvement and performance during preparation was strong in (a)
sectoral background analysis and aligning the project with Argentina’s needs vis-à-vis both
its UNFCCC obligations and development priorities, (b) defining relevant objectives, (c)
identifying the most important information needs, planning appropriate studies as key
deliverables, and (d) making implementation arrangements that build on the existing
framework and mechanisms for related inter-ministerial collaboration. The Bank worked
effectively with the GoA counterparts, and sought to reduce risk of early delays by limiting
the number of procurement processes required to get activities underway during the first
18 months. This included helping the SAyDS solicit initial expressions of interest to ensure
that there was a sufficient pool of qualified, sector-specific expertise interested in
conducting the studies.

78.     The main shortcomings in quality at entry were that the planned implementation
period was too short, the GEO (though targeting the right objectives) was ambitious and
subject to differing interpretations, and IOIs did not provide the means to track progress
against the objectives. The risks related to implementation capacity and interinstitutional
collaboration were underestimated.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

79.      While the Bank worked hard during implementation to effectively monitor and
support progress and keep management informed, the project fell into problem status
before effectiveness and remained a problem project through closing. Said status posed a
critical and continued challenge to addressing the critical project extension needs. During
early supervision, to the credit of both the GoA and the Bank, a restructuring was approved
seven months after project approval to reflect changes in Argentine regulations that created
an opportunity to improve implementation arrangements by moving fiduciary
responsibilities from the JGM to the PIU/SAyDS. Later, the Bank missed opportunities for
more proactive identification of problems or pursuit of timely solutions as it took nearly 18
months to get the project effective. The Bank could have been more assertive in helping
to overcome the hurdles. In addition, more could have been done during this time to urge
and help the SAyDS to prepare procurement packages and PIU staffing so that
                                             22
implementation could have started more promptly after effectiveness. With the 18-month
effectiveness deadline imminent, the Bank expressed a favorable opinion on the staffing
and operationalization of the PIU. Later, the February 2013 restructuring extended the
implementation period by the 18 months taken to effectiveness, notwithstanding the very
low subsequent pace of execution. Further, the Bank accepted SAyDS proposals on
compromise arrangements on PIU staffing that tapped into leadership and procurement
resources of another Bank project (GIRSU, P089926). The shortcomings of this interim
arrangement became clear through the bottlenecks that started to impact different aspects
of implementation. Problems were discussed and remedies identified and formulated after
the second supervision mission in March 2013 when planning began for the MTR.

80.     During implementation, the Bank was in constant contact with the PIU and also
worked closely with the responsible SAyDS authorities, trying to expedite project
execution. Once the PIU was fully up and running and the project’s supporting bodies had
been established, the Bank strived to promote tighter integration and coordination through
shared discussion events at the beginning of the missions. Based on carefully prepared
inputs by the PIU and responsible CCD staff, the MTR in September 2013 did propose
solutions to the identified implementation problems. The revised intermediate indicators,
however, did not strengthen the RF for purposes of the final project evaluation. Dropping
the GEO level indicator on institutional capacity was only partially filled by the new
intermediate indicators on SC participation. The task team reached out to Bank sector
specialists to contribute to technical review of ToRs and study reports. Providing this type
of input became a recurring event shortly before the SC meetings. Reporting in the
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) was generally timely and candid. Some
secondary performance ratings such as on project or financial management and
procurement may have been optimistic at times or upgraded too early because expectations
and recent progress were weighted too heavily, yet the corresponding information also
addressed shortcomings and delays.

81.     Despite the high transaction cost, the Bank also agreed to serve as the IA for the
first BUR that was to be included in the project as additional financing in the forthcoming
restructuring. After the GEF BUR approval, however, a number of different issues
challenged the action plan agreed upon at the MTR, e.g. constant execution delays that
didn’t allow improving the project ratings, new budget related restructuring needs that
required negotiation with the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance, and increasing
challenges faced with the SAyDS leadership. The Bank shares the responsibility for the 14
months that passed from the processing of the restructuring proposal until its final approval.
Meanwhile, uncertainty over the second extension approval left many contract processes
in limbo.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.     With both performance at ensuring quality at entry and during supervision rated as
MU, the Bank’s overall performance is rated MU due to significant shortcomings.
Particularly, faults in project design and early implementation stages were not addressed
as effectively or promptly during supervision as they should have been.
                                             23
5.2 Recipient Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

83.     The nature of the project required strong GoA ownership, and indeed part of the
objective was strengthening the capacity of key SC members, which was an extension of
and mirrored the membership of the GCCC. The GoA collaboration in preparation was
excellent, but many of the key problems and delays during implementation were caused by
political challenges and/or could have been avoided or resolved more quickly and
effectively with stronger GoA commitment. The unusually long effectiveness delay and
the slow initial implementation thereafter were junctures where more proactive GoA
intervention/action was needed, for example to avoid the five-month delay in opening the
designated account.

84.     The SC functioned mostly as intended to ensure that ToRs for studies and the final
products were relevant and satisfactory to the GoA. However, some of the implementation
and procurement delays were exacerbated by weak GoA monitoring and supervision of the
project and lack of political will to support the PIU on a timely and effective way.
Responsible authorities were not proactively involved in helping to solve problems. In
early 2014, the faith of the intended additional GEF financing for the BUR was an example
of weak coordination across the responsible GoA agencies. In April 2014, before the
second extension request and accompanying restructuring, the GoA took the unusual step
of issuing a “Declaration of Interest” signed by 23 high-level officials, including some
secretaries and subsecretaries. It was at once a reflection of concerns over the GoA
commitment to the project objectives and a reaffirmation of the same. While performance
of the SC and the intensity of the GoA engagement and project performance improved
thereafter, it came at a relatively late juncture. Overall, the GoA performance is rated
unsatisfactory (U).

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

85.     The SAyDS participated successfully in project preparation but a key champion of
the project left the SAyDS before the project became effective, and during implementation
the sense of ownership of the project from SAyDS leaders was not as strong as expected.
The SAyDS did provide the expected in-kind and administrative and logistical budget
support during implementation. However, the agency bears the most responsibility for the
implementation delays described in previous sections. The weaknesses in adequate PIU
staffing and particularly leadership during the first year of the active implementation were
also due to SAyDS decisions and positions. In addition, while SAyDS served as the SC
president, it was only one of the 26 ministries/agencies represented, and was in charge of
a very demanding leadership role. The SAyDS representatives appointed for the project
were not in the position to secure effective information sharing across institutions or
influence their priorities. First and foremost, it was already a big struggle to keep up with
constantly slipping implementation targets and secure sound administrative procedures.
                                             24
86.     In spite of the deficiencies, the IA performance is rated MU due to the PIU strengths
within the SAyDS. The technical knowledge, interest and dedication of the PIU staff is to
be recognized, and the staff worked very hard and diligently under difficult circumstances.
The PIU built trust and gained from the insights offered by the SC and TAC agencies.
Stakeholder participation and public communication was managed conscientiously,
providing access by a broad range of stakeholders through public events and on-line
document availability. However, technical consultants did not have the political leverage
to influence cross-sectoral agendas. The long process for the final restructuring, uncertainty
about the project closing date and issues with the SAyDS leadership weighed heavily on
the PIU.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

87.    The overall recipient performance is rated U since the rating for the GoA is U and
the corresponding rating for the SAyDS performance is MU (due to the stronger PIU
performance).

6. Lessons Learned

88.     Avoid planning for tight implementation period. The implementation period
requires careful assessment during preparation and restructuring and constant monitoring
during implementation. Reassessing the implementation period for a slow-starter project
for administrative/political reasons should be conducted with particular care and strategic
actions are needed to avoid failing to achieve goals and targets. This is particularly the case
as the Bank is averse to process project extensions, and particularly for problem projects
with continued implementation delays.

89.     Long delay between project design and execution can incur high transaction
costs. A project that faces a remarkable initial delay in getting operational often requires
working within a changed context, with new actors and/or circumstances. This can cause
high transaction costs and efficiency losses that further compromise the recovery potential
of a badly started project. Once a delayed or stalled project becomes effective and starts
implementation activities, the Bank team should secure full buy-in by government and
executing agency/team for the approved project and its implementation strategy.

90.     Securing adequate procurement capacity based on merits is critical for
technically demanding projects. Projects with demanding procurement processes should
invest in early identification of restrictions to hire key personnel due to government
regulations and policies. Consequently, the Bank should explore innovative approaches
and mechanisms to assure early access to solid, experienced and competent professionals,
including the possibility of intensive training of key PIU members. Options to hire key
personnel might include procuring firms or seeking UN organizations or foundations to
provide the required personnel.

91.    Carefully planned operational strategy for consultative/advising bodies could
greatly enhance prospects for successful implementation. Use of different types of
                                              25
consultative or advising bodies and processes can be extremely valuable to improve the
quality, relevance, and opportunity of products and promote their appropriation by key
stakeholders beyond the hosting agency’s scope of influence. Use of consultative/advising
bodies should build upon a carefully weighted and practically oriented strategy—ideally
prepared through a consultative process—to avoid overwhelming the participants and/or
causing implementation delays. No administrative or procurement responsibilities should
rest on consultative/advising groups, as recommended in previous projects. In case of the
project, the PIU should have limited the length of the ToRs and invested time in compiling
the key aspects of studies’ progress and final reports to streamline their review. Further
participation chances in meetings outside Buenos Aires would also have been valued, as
well as more workshop-type events to broaden and deepen related discussions.

92.     Restructuring requires careful balancing when combining critical and
necessary adjustment needs. The Bank encourages restructuring as a means of proactive
project management, but restructuring requires substantial time and effort by task teams
with heavy workloads. Overall it makes sense to combine different restructuring needs into
a major package. In the case of problem projects, extension might not be feasible without
addressing sensitive restructuring needs such as increasing budget for project management.
If feasible, however, resolving project extensions with due anticipation merits strong
prioritization over other restructuring needs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

93.     Feedback on the draft ICR was received from the SAyDS as detailed in Annex 7.
The main feedback was (a) confirmation of the government submission of the final TNC
and BUR reports to the UNFCCC on December 9, 2015, (b) request to use the Argentine
map as approved by the National Geographic Institute, (c) several specific clarifications
that the Bank team had requested from the SAyDS, particularly on the summary of the
Recipient Completion Report in Annex 7, and (d) requests from the SAyDS for some minor
clarifications/adjustments to the ICR.

94.     The Bank does not have any further comments on issues raised by the recipient in
its completion report or its comments on the Bank’s final draft ICR. The Bank accepted
the adjustments and clarifications suggested by the SAyDS as detailed in Annex 7. They
did not involve changes to the ICR that would have required further review by the recipient.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                            26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                               Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                            Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD       Percentage of
              Components                        millions)            millions)        Appraisal
1.    Harnessing National Potential
                                                     0.67              0.57                85
      for Climate Change Mitigation
2. Strengthening National
                                                     1.16              0.63                54
   Adaptation Agenda
3. Institutional Strengthening,
   Capacity Building and                             1.09              0.33                30
   Information Management
4. Project Management                                0.13              0.22               169
                  Total Baseline Cost                3.05              1.75                57
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                   Total Project Costs               3.05              1.75                57
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD
          Total Financing Required                   3.05              1.75                57
* The 2014 restructuring shifted modest amounts of the GEF funding from components 2 and 3 to
components 1 and 4, as presented in Table (c) below.

(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage
                                  Type of          Estimate            Estimate             of
      Source of Funds           Cofinancing      (USD millions)     (USD millions)      Appraisal
Recipient                                                 0.61          0.36              57.0
Global Environment
                                                          2.44          1.40              57.3
Facility (GEF)
            Total Financing                               3.05          1.76              57.0


(c) Evolution and outcome of the GEF funding allocated by component
 Component            Initial budget        Restructured budget        Final execution rate*
 1                         531,000                 611,856                        80,1%
 2                         928,000                 840,862                       58,75%
 3                         873,000                 778,009                        25,9%
 4                         107,000                 208,482                       101,6%
 Total GEF                2,439,209               2,439,209                       57,3%
*Compared with the restructured budget allocation.

                                                     27
28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.       The tables below present the status of the expected project outputs by component
as initially planned in the PAD. The initial plans were subject to adjustments and changes
as time passed and certain priorities changed, sector specialists were contracted to lead the
work on the components, implementation proceeded, and closer planning, identification of
the available information and budgeting was carried out.

Table 1. Expected and Achieved Project Outputs

 Activity                      Status                 Comments
 Component 1: Harnessing National Potential for Climate Change Mitigation
 (1) Upgrade and development of the Recipient’s national inventory of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG),
 including provision of support to strengthen the Recipient’s technical capacity for modeling, analyzing
 and projecting GHG emissions.
 Develop GHG emissions         Completed and          New inventories for 2010 and 2012 were developed
 inventory up to the latest    surpassed.             using IPCC methods; historical series for 1994,
 feasible year and review                             1996, 2000 updated; and forecasts estimated up to
 previous inventories                                 2030.
 analyzing observed
 emissions trends for each
 sector
 Develop GHG emissions         Mostly completed.      Two IPCC methodologies were applied. Other
 inventory using different                            methodologies were not explored as the budget was
 methodologies                                        relocated to improve the inventories and make
                                                      projections up to 2030.
 Elaborate and review          Completed.             Included in the GHG inventories per sector.
 emission factors (EFs) for
 each sector
 Develop carbon footprints     Not executed.          The reserved budget was relocated to improve the
 of main export products                              inventories and make projections up to 2030.
 and by person.
 Elaborate emission            Partially completed.   Emission inventories for 2012 on CO2, CH4 y N2O
 indicators assigning                                 were calculated and presented in terms of CO2e at
 responsibilities (e.g.                               provincial level, using the revised IPCC 2006
 historical emissions,                                directives. Emissions indicators were developed for
 emissions per capita, etc.)                          different sectors. The main purpose was to provide
 and response capacities                              tools for the definition of policies on regional
                                                      climate change mitigation.
                                                      There is no elaboration regarding emissions per
                                                      capita or response capacities. Regarding the latter,
                                                      analysis of response capabilities exceeded the
                                                      possibilities, due to the complexity of analyzing 24
                                                      provinces counting with independent and differing
                                                      legislation. An attempt was given to survey the
                                                      legislation, but it proved too demanding to analyze
                                                      them and present their status.
 Establish public access to    Completed.             All emission inventories and mitigation reports are
 information                                          available in the SAyDS webpage, including all the



                                                      29
    Activity                      Status                 Comments
                                                         support information, spreadsheets, and layers of
                                                         geo-referenced information9.
    Establish quality control     Completed.             Guidance was prepared and QA/QC procedures
    and quality assurance                                followed, led by the PIU.
    procedures for the used
    information and data 
    Strengthen capacity for       Partially completed    No specific activities were classified under this
    developing emission           through the            heading. The highly participatory process adopted
    inventories and analyzing     participatory          with the SC, TAC and the group of provincial focal
    generated data.               methodology            points ensured the dissemination of the information
                                  applied in preparing   to and engagement of the key stakeholders to
                                  the Project outputs,   contribute their sector knowledge. This approach
                                  including technical    illustrated its usefulness particularly in the
                                  meetings,              identification of mitigation options.
                                  workshops and
                                  presentations.

    (2) Carrying out of studies on mitigation potential in the Recipient’s main economic and GHG-emitting
    sectors, with an aim at identifying priority mitigation measures.
    Analyze the mitigation        Completed.             Identification and selection of technically potential
    potential related to                                 and economically viable renewable energy
    renewable energy                                     conducted, defining scenarios to be evaluated up to
                                                         2030 against the baseline situation of 2013. Analysis
                                                         done for two separated groups; wholesaler,
                                                         conventional generation of large projects, and retail,
                                                         low power distributed generation. A final
                                                         comprehensive analysis of the results is presented,
                                                         synthesizing variables for decision-making and
                                                         identifying existing and potential barriers. 
    Analyze the mitigation        Completed.             The best information available in the country on the
    potential related to carbon                          yet immature technology was included, including
    capture and storage                                  technical and economic analysis and operational
                                                         feasibility assessment. 
                                                         The study covers three main aspects: 1) estimation
                                                         of capture and storage capacity in Argentina; 2)
                                                         mapping of storage areas and appropriate
                                                         preliminary assessment of actual and potential
                                                         utilization of geological reserves; and 3) analysis of
                                                         the potential for CO2 capture in industrial and
                                                         mineral carbonation.
    Analyze the mitigation        Partially completed.   No technical and economic feasibility assessment
    potential related to bio-                            was conducted. 
    fuels and bio-mass
    Analyze the mitigation        Replaced.              Analyzing the mitigation potential related to energy
    potential related to energy                          efficiency in small and medium enterprises was
    efficiency in public,                                prioritized and completed for having more potential
    residential and                                      for follow-up action.



9
    http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/?idarticulo=13851

                                                         30
Activity                    Status       Comments
commercial buildings
Analyze the mitigation      Completed.   The topic was covered in the study on mitigation
potential related to                     options on the energy sector.
mitigation options in the
transport sector
Analyze the mitigation      Replaced.    Executed analyzing the mitigation potential related
potential related to a                   with recovering the railway system through potential
labeling system for                      NAMAs. Railways were prioritized over other
consumption and                          mitigation aspects in the sector, taken the existing
emissions of passenger                   political interest.
and light duty vehicles                  No economic analysis supports the
                                         recommendations.
Analyze the mitigation      Completed.   Six potential mitigation options were analyzed for
potential related to                     2017-2030. Due to lack of information, it was only
mitigation options in the                possible to estimate mitigation potentials and costs
industrial sector                        for three of them. For the other three, exhaustive
                                         qualitative analysis was undertaken to identify and
                                         describe the existing information and research the
                                         main gaps the country needs to address.
                                         The mitigation options analyzed were:
                                         1. Increasing efficiency in electric motors;
                                         2. Biomass energy generation and/or co-generation;
                                         3. Fossil fuel co-generation;
                                         4. Energy Management Systems (SGEn)
                                         implementation;
                                         5. Flare gases recovery in the petrochemical
                                         industry;
                                         6. Scrap recycling in the iron and steel industry.
Analyze the mitigation      Completed.   The analyzed and proposed mitigation measures for
potential related to                     domestic sewage and industrial wastewater include
mitigation actions in the                basic and at the global level widely used
waste/wastewater sector                  technologies, including construction or the adequacy
                                         of treatment plants and treatment by anaerobic
                                         digesters or covered lagoons for generation and
                                         capture of biogas. In cases where technically and
                                         economically feasible, energy-use of captured
                                         biogas is recommended for provision of social and
                                         environmental co-benefits.
Analyze the mitigation      Completed.   Four mitigation options were evaluated:
potential related to                     1. Crop rotation;
mitigation options in the                2. Use of urease inhibitors to reduce nitrogen
agricultural sector                      volatilization;
                                         3. Use of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria
                                         (PGPR) and microbial inoculants in cereal crops;
                                         and
                                         4. Variable fertilizer application technologies.
Case study on mitigation    Completed.   The study provides the basic information related
actions in the sugar cane                with sugarcane production, including management
exploitation                             practices and use of burning, related GHG
                                         emissions, actions to prevent burning and alternative


                                         31
Activity                     Status                 Comments
                                                    uses of harvest and milling residues, including their
                                                    potential in energy use.
Analyze the mitigation       Completed.               The study analyzes augmenting the area of
potential related to                                  commercial forest plantations in Argentina. It
mitigation potential of                               evaluates a potential 976.000 ha expansion of the
forestry sector                                       forested surface at the national level in 2015-2030.
                                                      Although forestation possibilities in the country
                                                      could be even larger, a conservative objective was
                                                      considered, in line with available projections.
                                                      The expansion of the national forested surface to 2
                                                      million ha could capture about 231 million tCO2 in
                                                      2015-2030. The net incremental cost of achieving
                                                      this forestation objective would be USD 615-957
                                                      million, considering 10% and 4% discount rates
                                                      respectively (USD 2,69 - 3,68/tCO2).
                                                      Increasing the forested area at the national level
                                                      could generate important environmental, social and
                                                      economic co-benefits, e.g. biodiversity protection,
                                                      soil and water pollution and erosion reduction,
                                                      climate change adaptation enhancement, and
                                                      regional development.
(3) Enhancement of an enabling framework for the implementation of mitigation measures, including the
design and delivery of a set of policies and mitigation measures aimed at integrating climate change into
the Recipient’s development strategy and sector programs.

Plausible P&M for            Not executed.          As reflected in the final Project restructuring,
mitigation of climate                               approved in December 2014, the remaining
change, including design                            implementation period didn’t allow carrying out the
of regulatory frameworks,                           final study on mitigation P&M.
implementation strategies,
and institutional
arrangements; and
economic, social and
environmental impact
assessments
Establish integrated         Completed.             Two GHG scenarios were studied based on GDP
energy scenarios up to                              and population projections developed by the
2020 and 2050 looking at                            Ministry of Economy and Public Finance.
different GHG emission
reduction regimes.

Component 2: Strengthening the National Adaptation Agenda
(1) Provision of support for the carrying out of socio-economic and climate change modeling scenarios,
targeted at identifying priority adaptation actions and expected impacts, costs and benefits
Study on current and         Provided by the        This socio-economic scenario served as basis for the
planned socio-economic       Ministry of            climate vulnerability analyses.
scenarios                    Economy and
                             Public Finance.
Evaluation of                Completed.             The performance of GCMs was measured through
performance of global                               10 error indicators. Four regions were investigated
climate models (GCM) in                             and the four best performing GCMs selected.
Argentina

                                                   32
 Activity                     Status                 Comments
 Generation of Climate        Completed.             Scenarios were developed based on results from the
 Change Scenarios                                    CMIP5 series10 complemented with one scenario
                                                     based on the CMIP3 series.
 Climate change impacts       Completed.             Climate indicators for heat waves developed for the
 on heat waves and freezes                           climate change scenarios.
 Climate change impacts       Completed.             Climate indicators for floods and droughts
 on extreme hydro climatic                           developed for the climate change scenarios. Fires
 events (floods, droughts,                           are not included in GCMs and regional climate
 fire)                                               models (RCM).
 Climate vulnerability of     Partially completed.   The initial and ambitious scope of the study covered
 ecosystems and                                      all the ecoregions and included valuation of
 ecosystem services                                  ecosystem services, displacement of species,
                                                     interaction between species, etc.
                                                     The study was compiled based on contributions by a
                                                     group of individual consultants. At the end, the
                                                     humid ecoregion was not covered and the study on
                                                     the arid and semi-arid ecoregions was covered for
                                                     the vulnerability part; valuation of ecosystem
                                                     services and impacts on the same remained pending.
                                                     Regarding the initial planning, an additional study
                                                     on the Argentine Sea was delivered.
 Climate vulnerability of     Completed.             The study was compiled based on three individual
 the agricultural sector                             consultants’ contributions.


 Climate vulnerability of     Not executed. ToRs     Three individual consultants were contracted but
 the health sector            were elaborated in     they resolved to resign as the time left for
                              collaboration with     conducting the study resulted too short.
                              the key
                              stakeholders.
 Climate vulnerability of     Completed.             The study included five national parks in four eco-
 the tourism sector                                  regions with 24 tourism destinations analyzed.
                                                     The study includes qualitative analyses in most
                                                     topics.
 Climate vulnerability in     Not executed. ToRs     No individual consultants were available to embark
 urban areas                  were elaborated in     on this study when then second Project extension
                              collaboration with     got confirmed.
                              the key
                              stakeholders.
 Climate vulnerability in     Completed.             The study was compiled based on three individual
 the energy sector                                   consultants’ contributions.
                                                     Following the Manual on Vulnerability and
                                                     Adaptation to Climate Change for Management and
                                                     Local Planning (SAyDS, 2011) adapted to energy
                                                     sector, the study addresses heat waves, floods,
                                                     droughts, cold waves and tornados and high winds,


10
  CMIP5 refers to the latest round of results from global circulation models, GCMs, used for global inter
comparison analyses.

                                                     33
Activity                     Status                 Comments
                                                    comprising of the following four steps: 1) Define the
                                                    unit of analysis and territorial scope; 2) Characterize
                                                    threats; 3) Characterize vulnerability and risk; and 4)
                                                    Select adaptation options.
                                                    The study includes qualitative analyses in most
                                                    topics, as well as limited economic analysis.
Climate vulnerability on     Not executed. ToRs     No individual consultants were available to embark
water resources              were elaborated in     on this study when then second Project extension
management                   collaboration with     got confirmed.
                             the key
                             stakeholders.
Climate vulnerability on     Not executed. ToRs     No individual consultants were available to embark
fisheries                    were elaborated in     on this study when then second Project extension
                             collaboration with     got confirmed.
                             the key
                             stakeholders.
(2) Carrying out of studies to further develop priority adaptation actions necessary to strengthen the
Recipient’s preparedness to climate change impacts in areas identified as most vulnerable.
Develop actions to           Was to form a part     Some adaptation measures were identified in the
improve adaptation on        of the earlier         vulnerability study, but the related elaboration did
eco-regions and              referred sector        not cover the scope of the expected work.
ecosystem services           study, but was
                             hardly covered in
                             practice.
Develop actions to           Was to form a part     Some adaptation measures were identified in the
improve adaptation on        of the earlier         vulnerability study, but the related elaboration did
agricultural sector          referred sector        not cover the scope of the expected work.
                             study, but was
                             hardly covered in
                             practice.
Develop actions to           Not executed.          See above.
improve adaptation on
health sector
Develop actions to           Was to form a part     No specific adaptation measures were characterized
improve adaptation on        of the earlier         or economic analysis included.
tourism                      referred sector
                             study, but was
                             hardly covered in
                             practice.
Develop actions to           Not executed.          See above.
improve adaptation on
urban areas
Develop actions to           Was to form a part     Some adaptation measures were identified in the
improve adaptation on the    of the earlier         vulnerability study, but the related elaboration did
energy sector                referred sector        not cover the scope of the expected work.
                             study, but was
                             hardly covered in
                             practice.
Develop actions to           Not executed.          See above.
improve adaptation on

                                                   34
Activity                     Status                  Comments
water resources
management
Develop actions to           Not executed.           See above.
improve adaptation on
fisheries
Challenges and               Completed.              An initial analysis on interlinkages between labor
Opportunities in labor                               sector and climate change was conducted.
sector and its adaptation
to climate change
(3) Enhancement of an enabling framework for the implementation of adaptation measures, including
the design and delivery of a set of policies and adaptation measures aimed at integrating climate change
into the Recipient’s development strategy and sector programs.
Policies and measures to     Not executed.           As reflected in the final Project restructuring,
address adaptation in                                approved in December 2014, the remaining
different economic                                   implementation period didn’t allow carrying out the
sectors                                              final study on adaptation P&M.
Analysis of labor policies   Partially completed.    No specific adaptation measures were characterized
and measures responding                              or economic analysis included.
to the expected impacts of
climate change
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building, and Information Management
(1) Provision of support to define the technical scope of activities to be carried out under the TNC.
Detail the technical scope   Completed.              The work was conducted in collaboration between
of the activities                                    the SAyDS staff and PIU consultants; no specific
undertaken as part of the                            consultancy was contracted to provide the referred
TNC, and design the                                  support as initially planned.
institutional and                                    Good access to information was achieved.
coordination                                         SC, TAC and the group of provincial focal points
arrangements in order to                             participated actively.
facilitate access to
information and commit
Governmental Agencies
to the development of the
Project
(2) Strengthening of institutional capacity at the national, provincial and municipal levels, with regard
to the integration of climate data into sector programs and strategies
Organization of              14 national and 7       Presentations were made on the preliminary results
workshops for national,      provincial level        of Components 1 and 2: The climate modeling study
provincial and municipal     workshops were          was presented in Salta, Posadas, Ushuaia, Mendoza,
agencies and legislators     organized.              Buenos Aires and Tucuman. These locations were
                                                     chosen to cover the regions based on which the
                                                     COFEMA is organized. Representatives participated
                                                     from government agencies, academia, civil society
                                                     and media.
                                                     The mayor bulk of the planned dissemination and
                                                     capacity building workshops remained pending as
                                                     the completion of the main Project outputs
                                                     continued until the very last day of Project
                                                     implementation. The final dissemination event was
                                                     organized on June 30, 2015 in Buenos Aires.

                                                    35
 Activity                      Status                Comments
                                                     No municipal level workshops were covered.
 Workshops for teachers at     Not executed.         Overall, the activities planned for creating demand
 high school and primary                             for climate-related knowledge sharing at schools at
 school levels                                       any level and elaboration of materials and tools for
                                                     the same were dropped due to the long
                                                     administrative procedures required to officially
                                                     approve any new material to be used within the
                                                     curriculums.
 Workshops for civil           See above on the 21   Civil society representatives participated in the
 society                       national and          Project activities mainly through the TAC. Some
                               provincial level      dissemination events were also open for general
                               workshops.            public.
 Workshops for journalists     Not executed.         While exclusive events were not organized to
 across the country                                  journalists and media representatives, their
                                                     participation was counted in various outreach
                                                     activities mentioned above.
                                                     A compilation of published articles and radio
                                                     programs is available at the SAyDS project
                                                     website11.
 Distance course for           Not executed.         Overall, the activities planned for creating demand
 teachers                                            for climate-related knowledge sharing at schools at
                                                     any level and elaboration of materials and tools for
                                                     the same were dropped due to the long
                                                     administrative procedures required to officially
                                                     approve any new material to be used within the
                                                     curriculums.
 Preparation of two            Not executed.         See above.
 Educational Textbooks,
 one for primary school
 students and one for
 secondary school
 students.
 Transform the Carbon          Not Executed.         Work with COFEMA and on the 21 workshops was
 Market Simulation Game                              prioritized under Component 3.
 to Web Format.
 Design of a Simulation
 Game on Adaptation.
 (3) Preparation and dissemination of the TNC, incorporating the conclusions and results reached from
 implementing Project-supported studies and additional related information.
 Final report                  Not executed.         During the final months of Project implementation,
                                                     SAyDS searched for and succeeded alternative
                                                     funding from CEPAL for completing the final TNC
                                                     report.
 Final report for decision     Not executed.         Each produced study included a summary for
 makers                                              decision makers.




11
     http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/?idarticulo=13003

                                                     36
 Activity                    Status                 Comments
                                                    The TNC report elaborated with ECLAC funding
                                                    will cover an executive summary for decision
                                                    makers.
 6 workshops to              Mostly not             A final dissemination event was organized on June
 communicate final results   executed.              30, 2015 in Buenos Aires, counting with
                                                    approximately 200 participants.
                                                    Because the gran majority of the final study reports
                                                    were delivered on the project closure, it was not
                                                    possible to conduct the subsequent dissemination
                                                    workshops. However, as mentioned above,
                                                    presentations on the preliminary studies were
                                                    organized in the six COFEMA regions.
 Preparation of a media      Partially completed.   The Project counted with and implemented a
 campaign                                           communication strategy in close collaboration with
                                                    the SAyDS communications department.
                                                    Thanks to the close collaboration of the SAyDS
                                                    press area, over a hundred media articles in print,
                                                    radio, television and media websites were achieved.
                                                    The clipping is available on
                                                    http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/?idarticulo=13003
 Design of information       Not executed. ToRs     The related contracting, first of a firm and later of
 management software         were elaborated in     individual consultants did not prove successful.
                             collaboration with
                             the SAyDS IT
                             department.
 Component 4: Project Management
 Provision of technical and operational assistance, as necessary, to support adequate Project
 management and coordination by the PIU and the Steering Committee, including carrying out Project
 audits.

2.      As per results of the restructuring approved on December 19, 2014, a list of 19
targeted management tools and studies on mitigation were defined. The table below
presents the respective performance analysis. The respective comments apply from the
previous table.

Table 2. Management Tools and Studies

 Number of Management Tools and Studies                          Status
 1. GHG Inventories – Historical series 1990-2012 – Forecasts    Completed
 2013-2030
 2. Emission indicators (10 per sector)                          Completed
 3. Provincial Index Cards (24)                                  Completed
 4. Priority mitigation measures by sector                       Completed
 5. Report on adoption of the 2006 inventory methodology of      Completed
 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
 6. Plan for improving GHG inventory                             Completed
 7. Study on renewable energy                                    Completed
 8. Study on carbon capture and storage                          Completed


                                                    37
 Number of Management Tools and Studies                            Status
 9. Study on bio-fuels and biomass                                 Completed
 10. Study on mitigation options in the industrial sector          Completed
 11. Study on mitigation options in agriculture                    Completed
 12. Study on mitigation options in raising beef and dairy         Completed
 cattle  
 13. Study on changes in land use and forestry                     Completed
 14. Sugar cane case study                                         Completed
 15. Study on mitigation options in waste/wastewater sector        Completed
 16. Study on mitigation options in transport sector               Completed
 17. Study on mitigation through improved energy efficiency        Completed
 18. Study on climate change related financial instruments         Completed
 19. Biennial Update Report (BUR) of the Argentine Republic        Partially completed by project closing;
 to the UNFCCC, a simplified version                               the substance material was produced
                                                                   but the actual report remained to be
                                                                   compiled after project closing by a
                                                                   group of consultants hired with CEPAL
                                                                   funding to complete the BUR and the
                                                                   TNC report that were submitted to the
                                                                   UNFCCC in December 2015.

3.      The restructuring also included four adaptation outputs, as indicated belw.

Table 3. Climate modeling study and studies on sector-specific impact, vulnerability, and adaptation
options developed

 Climate modeling study and studies on sector-specific impact, vulnerability,           Status
 and adaptation options developed
 1. Climate database: Data observed for the recent past (1960-2010) and forecast by     Completed
 regional and global climate models for the near future (2016-2035) and in the
 longer term (2081-2100)

 2. Report on changes in mean climate and in extreme weather events, observed in        Completed
 the recent past, as well as those forecast by regional and global climate models for
 the near future and in the longer term  

 3. Climate change impact, opportunities and adaptation options related with labor      Completed
 force  

 4. Social vulnerability, threat and risk from climate change                           Completed



Note: All reports, in Spanish and most of them with an executive summary in English,
are available through the hyperlinks included in Annex 9 on Supporting Documents.




                                                     38
PROJECT RESTRUCTURING 12/19/14

Proposed revisions to results framework

The results framework was revised to reduce the targeted adaptation studies and exclude
the final studies on mitigation and adaptation P&M. Further, the revision was expected to
improve measuring of intermediate results indicators. The revised intermediate result
indicators focused on tracking the progress of the studies and key stakeholders'
participation in contributing to their development. Overall, though work-intensive and
time-wise challenging, promoting active participation of key sectoral stakeholders was
considered crucial and worth the effort, as the aim was to develop feasible proposals of
P&M for mitigation and adaptation. The revised results framework is presented below.




                                           39
                          REVISIONS PROPOSED TO RESULTS FRAMEWORK – December 2014
.




Results
Core sector indicators are considered: Yes                                 Results reporting level: Project Level
.




Global Environmental Objective Indicators

Status          Indicator Name                    Core   Unit of Measure                     Baseline             Actual(Current)       End Target
Marked for      Capacity building for                    Percentage             Value
Deletion        mainstreaming climate change
                                                                                Date         14-Feb-2011          20-Dec-2013           13-Nov-2014
                mitigation and adaptation
                                                                                Comment      The survey used      Please see progress   At least
                                                                                             in conjunction       updates under         satisfactory
                                                                                             with each TNC        Implementation        percentage (50-
                                                                                             event will include   Status Overview.      75%) of the
                                                                                             questions on                               survey responses
                                                                                             respondents#                               collected at the
                                                                                             capacity to take                           TNC events
                                                                                             climate change                             confirms
                                                                                             considerations                             increased
                                                                                             into account in                            perception of
                                                                                             their work prior                           capacity to
                                                                                             to their                                   understand
                                                                                             involvement in                             climate change
                                                                                             the TNC                                    considerations
                                                                                             activities.                                and
                                                                                                                                        address them by
                                                                                                                                        concrete
                                                                                                                                        measures
New             The Biennial Update Report               Yes/No                 Value        No                   No                    Yes
                (BUR) of the Argentine Republic                                 Date         14-Feb-2011          17-Dec-2014           30-Jun-2015




                                                                      41
Status    Indicator Name                       Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline           Actual(Current)      End Target
          delivered to the Ministry of                                  Comment   The Second         The related
          Foreign Affairs to be submitted to                                      National           procurement
          the UNFCCC                                                              Communication      processes are well
                                                                                  was submitted to   advanced.
                                                                                  the UNFCCC in
                                                                                  2007
Revised   Management tools and/or studies             Number            Value     0.00               0.00                 19.00
          on sector-specific mitigation
                                                                        Date      24-Sep-2014        17-Dec-2014          30-Jun-2015
          potential developed to evaluate
          and design feasible mitigation                                Comment   Studies carried    15 of the targeted   The list of the 19
          policies and measures                                                   out within the     management tools     targeted
                                                                                  framework of the   and/or studies are   management tools
                                                                                  Second National    being developed.     and/or studies is
                                                                                  Communication                           included in Annex
                                                                                  (mitigation                             1 of the December
                                                                                  studies as of                           2014 project
                                                                                  2007)                                   restructuring
                                                                                                                          paper.
Revised   A Climate Modeling Study and                Number            Value     0.00               2.00                 4.00
          studies on sector-specific impact,
                                                                        Date      14-Feb-2011        17-Dec-2014          30-Jun-2015
          vulnerability, and adaptation
          options developed                                             Comment   Studies carried    The Climate          The list of the
                                                                                  out within the     Modeling Study       targeted outputs is
                                                                                  framework of the   and related          included in Annex
                                                                                  Second National    database have been   1 of the December
                                                                                  Communication      finalized and        2014 project
                                                                                  (adaptation        disclosed.           restructuring
                                                                                  studies as of                           paper. 12 longer
                                                                                  2007)                                   studies with
                                                                                                                          demanding
                                                                                                                          procurement
                                                                                                                          processes will not
                                                                                                                          be doable by the




                                                                 42
Status            Indicator Name                      Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline               Actual(Current)      End Target
                                                                                                                                     June 2015 closing
                                                                                                                                     date.
.
Intermediate Results Indicators
Status            Indicator Name                      Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline               Actual(Current)      End Target
Marked for        Enabling environment for policies          Yes/No            Value     Yes                    Yes                  Yes
Deletion          to mitigate climate change
                                                                               Date      14-Feb-2011            20-Dec-2013          13-Nov-2014
                                                                               Comment   There is a             The Government       Enabling
                                                                                         number of              counts with a        environment for
                                                                                         ongoing                Governmental         adoption of
                                                                                         mitigation related     Committee on         policies to
                                                                                         initiatives, but the   Climate Change       mitigate climate
                                                                                         baseline remains       and has approved a   change has been
                                                                                         to be defined          National Climate     strengthened by
                                                                                         upon beginning         Change Strategy.     targeted sectors
                                                                                         of project                                  (energy and
                                                                                         implementation.                             transport, waste,
                                                                                                                                     agriculture and
                                                                                                                                     forestry) having
                                                                                                                                     access to
                                                                                                                                     mitigation-related
                                                                                                                                     information (e.g.
                                                                                                                                     updated and new
                                                                                                                                     GHG emission
                                                                                                                                     inventories) and
                                                                                                                                     feasible options
                                                                                                                                     and policies and
                                                                                                                                     measures for
                                                                                                                                     climate change
                                                                                                                                     mitigation.
                                                             Number            Value




                                                                        43
Status       Indicator Name                      Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline               Actual(Current)        End Target
Marked for   Estimated GHG intensity of the                               Date      14-Feb-2011            20-Dec-2013            13-Nov-2014
Deletion     proposed mitigation policies and
                                                                          Comment   To be generated        Implementation of      No specific
             measures
                                                                                    through related        component 1 is at      numeric target
                                                                                    TNC studies            its initial stage as   was set for the
                                                                                    under component        described under        GHG intensity
                                                                                    1.                     Implementation         (mitigation
                                                                                                           Status Overview.       potential) of the
                                                                                                                                  proposed
                                                                                                                                  mitigation
                                                                                                                                  options, but they
                                                                                                                                  are toidentify
                                                                                                                                  their estimated
                                                                                                                                  potential to
                                                                                                                                  reduce related
                                                                                                                                  GHG emissions.
Marked for   Enabling environment for policies          Yes/No            Value     Yes                    Yes                    Yes
Deletion     to adapt to climate change
                                                                          Date      14-Feb-2011            20-Dec-2013            13-Nov-2014
                                                                          Comment   There is a             The Government         Enabling
                                                                                    number of              counts with a          environment for
                                                                                    ongoing                Governmental           adoption of
                                                                                    adaptation related     Committee on           policies to
                                                                                    initiatives, but the   Climate Change         increase resilience
                                                                                    baseline remains       and has approved a     to climate change
                                                                                    to be defined          National Climate       has been
                                                                                    upon beginning         Change Strategy.       strengthened by
                                                                                    of project                                    targeted sectors
                                                                                    implementation.                               having access to
                                                                                                                                  new adaptation-
                                                                                                                                  related
                                                                                                                                  information:
                                                                                                                                  Regional
                                                                                                                                  Circulation
                                                                                                                                  Models (RCMs);




                                                                   44
Status       Indicator Name                        Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline             Actual(Current)       End Target
                                                                                                                                 climate change
                                                                                                                                 scenarios
                                                                                                                                 generated through
                                                                                                                                 various RCMs;
                                                                                                                                 and studies on
                                                                                                                                 impacts of past
                                                                                                                                 climate variability
                                                                                                                                 and change in the
                                                                                                                                 country, as well
                                                                                                                                 as to sectoral
                                                                                                                                 impact and
                                                                                                                                 vulnerability
                                                                                                                                 studies and
                                                                                                                                 feasible options
                                                                                                                                 and policies and
                                                                                                                                 measures for
                                                                                                                                 climate change
                                                                                                                                 adaptation.
Marked for   Estimated total losses and benefits          Number            Value
Deletion     of the proposed adaptation policies
                                                                            Date      14-Feb-2011          13-Dec-2013           13-Nov-2014
             and measures
                                                                            Comment   To be extracted,     Please see progress   No specific
                                                                                      if feasible, based   updates under         numeric target
                                                                                      on ongoing           Implementation        was set for the
                                                                                      initiatives to be    Status Overview.      total losses and
                                                                                      identified along                           benefits of the
                                                                                      the studies under                          proposed
                                                                                      component 2.                               adaptation options
                                                                                                                                 and P&M, but
                                                                                                                                 they are to present
                                                                                                                                 an attractive cost-
                                                                                                                                 benefit ratio.
Marked for   Increased awareness on climate               Percentage        Value
Deletion     change concerns
                                                                            Date      14-Feb-2011          13-Dec-2013           13-Nov-2014



                                                                       45
Status       Indicator Name                  Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline             Actual(Current)       End Target
                                                                      Comment   The survey used      Please see progress   At least
                                                                                in conjunction       updates under         satisfactory
                                                                                with each TNC        Implementation        percentage (50-
                                                                                event will include   Status Overview.      75%) of the
                                                                                questions on the                           survey responses
                                                                                general                                    collected at the
                                                                                awareness level                            TNC events
                                                                                of the                                     confirms
                                                                                respondents prior                          increased
                                                                                to their                                   understanding on
                                                                                involvement with                           climate change,
                                                                                the TNC.                                   and at least
                                                                                                                           satisfactory
                                                                                                                           amount (50-75%)
                                                                                                                           of the registered
                                                                                                                           teachers have
                                                                                                                           approved the
                                                                                                                           designed distance
                                                                                                                           course on climate
                                                                                                                           change.
Marked for   Timely project implementation          Percentage        Value                                                100.00
Deletion
                                                                      Date      14-Feb-2011          13-Dec-2013           13-Nov-2014
                                                                      Comment   No meaningful        The Project           All the planned
                                                                                baseline.            Implementation        studies are
                                                                                                     Unit (PIU) has        expected to be
                                                                                                     consolidated its      initiated and
                                                                                                     staff. Overall, the   delivered in a
                                                                                                     PIU is complying      timely fashion.
                                                                                                     with an action plan
                                                                                                     to speed up project
                                                                                                     implementation
                                                                                                     with a satisfactory
                                                                                                     manner. However,
                                                                                                     actual project



                                                                 46
Status   Indicator Name                      Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline             Actual(Current)        End Target
                                                                                                     execution remains
                                                                                                     low as the nature of
                                                                                                     the project design
                                                                                                     implies a lot of up-
                                                                                                     front work on
                                                                                                     procurement before
                                                                                                     actual execution.
New      Level of progress achieved in              Percentage        Value     0.00                 49.00                  100.00
         creating the targeted information
                                                                      Date      14-Feb-2011          17-Dec-2014            30-Jun-2015
         base for climate mitigation
                                                                      Comment   Studies carried      The methodology        The methodology
                                                                                out within the       used to measure the    used to measure
                                                                                framework of the     result is described    the result is
                                                                                Second National      in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                                Communication        December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                                (2000 inventory      project                December 2014
                                                                                of GHGs/             restructuring paper.   project
                                                                                mitigation studies                          restructuring
                                                                                as of 2007)                                 paper.
New      Level of progress achieved in              Percentage        Value     0.00                 75.00                  100.00
         creating the targeted information
                                                                      Date      14-Feb-2011          17-Dec-2014            30-Jun-2015
         base for climate adaptation
                                                                      Comment   Studies carried      The methodology        The methodology
                                                                                out within the       used to measure the    used to measure
                                                                                framework of the     result is described    the result is
                                                                                Second National      in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                                Communication        December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                                (adaptation          project                December 2014
                                                                                studies as of        restructuring paper.   project
                                                                                2007)                                       restructuring
                                                                                                                            paper.
New                                                 Number            Value     0.00                 8.00                   8.00
                                                                      Date      14-Feb-2011          17-Dec-2014            30-Jun-2015




                                                                 47
Status   Indicator Name                  Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline              Actual(Current)        End Target
         Level of participation in the                            Comment   Key agencies          The methodology        The methodology
         development of the mitigation                                      participated in the   used to measure the    used to measure
         studies by the key agencies                                        identification of     result is described    the result is
                                                                            the priority topics   in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                            to be addressed       December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                            under the TNC         project                December 2014
                                                                            mitigation            restructuring paper.   project
                                                                            component                                    restructuring
                                                                            during the project                           paper.
                                                                            design
New      Level of participation in the          Number            Value     0.00                  7.00                   7.00
         development of the adaptation
                                                                  Date      14-Feb-2011           17-Dec-2014            30-Jun-2015
         studies by the key agencies
                                                                  Comment   Key agencies          The methodology        The methodology
                                                                            participated in the   used to measure the    used to measure
                                                                            identification of     result is described    the result is
                                                                            the priority topics   in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                            to be addressed       December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                            under the TNC         project                December 2014
                                                                            adaptation            restructuring paper.   project
                                                                            component                                    restructuring
                                                                            during the project                           paper.
                                                                            design
New      Proportion of procurement              Percentage        Value     0.00                  76.00                  100.00
         processes initiated
                                                                  Date      14-Feb-2011           30-Sep-2014            30-Jun-2015
                                                                  Comment                         The methodology        The methodology
                                                                                                  used to measure the    used to measure
                                                                                                  result is described    the result is
                                                                                                  in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                                                  December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                                                  project                December 2014
                                                                                                  restructuring paper.   project




                                                             48
Status   Indicator Name              Core   Unit of Measure             Baseline      Actual(Current)        End Target
                                                                                                             restructuring
                                                                                                             paper.
New      Proportion of procurement          Percentage        Value     0.00          33.00                  100.00
         processes completed
                                                              Date      14-Feb-2011   30-Sep-2014            30-Jun-2015
                                                              Comment                 The methodology        The methodology
                                                                                      used to measure the    used to measure
                                                                                      result is described    the result is
                                                                                      in Annex 1 of the      described in
                                                                                      December 2014          Annex 1 of the
                                                                                      project                December 2014
                                                                                      restructuring paper.   project
                                                                                                             restructuring
                                                                                                             paper.




                                                         49
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This is a GEF enabling activity, thus a formal economic analysis for investment was not
done neither at appraisal nor at completion.




                                           50
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Marcelo Acerbi                 Senior Environmental Specialist        GENDR        TTL
Tuuli Bernardini               Environmental Specialist               GENDR Climate Adaptation
Federico Scodelaro             Chemical Engineer, JPA                 LCSEN    Environment
Seraphine Haeussling           Climate Change Consultant              LCSEN    Environment
Sofia Alejandra Garcia         Civil Engineer, JPA                    LCSEN    Environment
Estela Santalla                Climate Change Consultant              LCSEN    Environment
Ana Grofsmacht                 Procurement Analyst                    GGODR    Procurement
Daniel Chalupowicz             Financial Management Specialist        GGODR      Finance
Alejandro Alcala Gerez         Senior Counsel                         LEGES       Legal
Victor Ordonez                 Senior Finance Officer                 WFALN      Finance
Maria Emilia Sparks            Team Assistant                         LCC7C    Adm. Support
Walter Vergara                 Lead Chemical Engineer                  ENV    Peer Reviewer
Richard Hosier                 Senior Energy Specialist               GEEDR   Peer Reviewer
Richard Damania                Lead Economist                         GWADR Peer Reviewer

Supervision/ICR
Tuuli Bernardini               Environmental Specialist               GENDR       TTL
Paula Agostina Di Crocco       E T Consultant                         GGODR Financial Mgmt.
Gustavo Adrian Canu            Procurement Specialist                 GGODR   Procurement
Pablo Francisco Herrera        Environmental Specialist               GENDR   Environment
Fabiola Altimari Montiel       Senior Counsel                         LEGLE       Legal
Graciela Dora Broda            Team Assistant                         LCC7C Adm. Support (CO)
Beatriz Iraheta                Lang. Program Assistant                GENDR Adm. Support (HQ)
Peter M. Brandriss             Operations Analyst                     GENDR       ICR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks*
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09-FY11                                               8.44                   27,335.65
Supervision/ICR
FY11-FY15                                             38.26                    115,557.18
                                 Total:                                        142,912.83
* It is to be noted that due to budget restrictions and the considerable time the project support
required, only a part of the staff time used to support the project was actually charged against the
project code.



                                                 51
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. The Bank team developed and processed a qualitative on-line survey to collect opinions
and perceptions on the TNC final results and the project as a whole from a total of 81
individuals in late October-early November 2015; 43 SC and 16 TAC members and
alternates and 22 COFEMA focal points. A total of 24 responses (30 percent) were
collected; 10 from the SC representing nine GoA agencies, nine from COFEMA and five
from the TAC (two civil society and research/academic and one labor organization
representatives). The results do not allow broad or solid conclusions, but together with a
small number of face-to-face interviews conducted during the ICR mission, they do provide
valuable qualitative input to assessing the project results.

2. Overall, the vast majority of the respondents evaluated their own level of participation
in the project as moderate. Regarding their understanding of the climate change
problematic they gained through their participation in the project, 60 percent of SC, 77
percent of COFEMA, and 80 percent of TAC respondents stated satisfactory or highly
satisfactory result. TAC and COFEMA members valued also the quality of the final
mitigation and adaptation studies slightly more positively than the SC members.

3. Regarding the respondents’ valuation of the level of greater capacity to address
mitigation or adaptation P&M by their own agency/province/organization, 33 percent of
the nine responding SC representatives stated a satisfactory level of capacity increase and
56 percent a modest level; in case of COFEMA, 71 percent of the seven respondents to the
question stated a satisfactory or highly satisfactory level, and 100 percent of the 4
responding TAC representatives stated a satisfactory level. A related comment from a
COFEMA representative describes both the particular provincial-level as well as the
national situation: “There is no overall policy coordination or action in our province to
bring the project findings or recommendations forward. It takes time to assimilate these
results and transform them into concrete action steps such as related projects. Further, as
the country is processing a change of government, applicability of any new P&M needs to
be discussed with the new authorities.”

4. Regarding the thus far application of the project results, particularly the climate
modeling results to conduct further sector studies, most of the respondents stated the results
had not yet been, but were expected to be used by their respective agency/organization. A
labor organization stated they are already using the climate scenarios on a specific study
on defining fair labor transition strategies within the energy and agricultural sectors.

5. In terms of overall final comments on the project, respondents highlighted the
importance of continuing the communication and dissemination of the project results and
applying them in further development of the National Climate Change Strategy. A
COFEMA representative highlighted, beyond the valuable technical material provided by
the project, the importance of the continued exchange with the PIU/SAyDS staff and the
other provincial representatives: “Over time, a valuable group of focal points was formed
for future interactions.”



                                             52
6. Regarding the information base used for certain parts of the estimated mitigation
potential, a Ministry was criticized for not using the correct, most updated available
information on current prices of specific cleaner technologies that are available.

7. Overall, the five GTA respondents expressed high valuation of the project results:
“Progress has been made in systematization of information and active participation of
different sectors.” Further, it was stated: “…the challenge of participating in this type of
project served to internalize the problem of climate change in our institution.”




                                            53
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Please see Annex 5 that is also pertinent for stakeholders.




                                            54
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Recipient’s Comments on Draft ICR (Summary in English)

The SAyDS provided inputs to the draft ICR as requested by the Bank, e.g. on Annex 1 on
the project costs and financing and the above summary of the recipient’s completion report.
The comments from the SAyDS on the draft ICR were submitted as embedded comments
in the ICR electronic file rather than as a separate communication. They largely involved
technical suggestions and clarifications rather than offering different views or opinions on
the substantive findings, with the exception of the comments detailed below on the
coverage of some of the studies listed in Annex 2. Since the comments were not in the form
of stand-alone document, they are summarized below rather than included in their entirety

      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase, paragraph 42; also paragraph 59 on the
       BUR and 69 on the overall outcome rating: The SAyDS confirmed the UNFCCC
       submission of the final TNC and BUR reports took place on December 9, 2015.
       This was reflected in the respective parts of the final ICR.

      Main Objectives, paragraph 49 on the information base: The SAyDS requested
       clarification on the presentation of the sectors and economic activities covered by
       the TNC studies both on mitigation and adaptation. The respective sentences were
       modified in the final ICR.

      Building institutional capacity among key members of the Steering Committee,
       paragraph 60: The SAyDS preferred to refer to the Warsaw Agreements at COP 19
       as the initial moment of the INDCs preparation, instead of the broader interpretation
       of the related background having started already at COP 16 in Cancun. The
       comment was reflected in the final ICR.

      Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts, paragraph 73: The SAyDS confirmed
       there were none.

      Annex 2 on outputs by component, adaptation part of the table, section (2):
       Regarding the study on climate vulnerability of the agricultural sector, the SAyDS
       requested to remove the statement “The study includes qualitative analyses in most
       topics.” Further, related to the activities “Develop actions to improve adaptation on
       (i) eco-regions and ecosystem services; (ii) agricultural sector; and (iii) energy
       sector, the SAyDS did not agree with the statement that the elaboration of the
       identified adaptation measures did not cover the scope of the expected work. The
       SAyDS argued that the time available for conducting the studies did not allow said
       coverage. The Bank agrees with the fact in terms of the performance of the
       contracted consultants. However, the statement was not revised as the time finally
       available for the consultants to conduct the studies does not change the originally
       expected scope of the same.

      Map at the end of the ICR: The SAyDS requested the Bank to replace the map
                                            55
       provided by the Bank GSD Map Design Unit by the Argentine map that is approved
       by the National Geographic Institute. The latter presents the disputed Falkland
       Islands as Argentine territory, as well as the Argentine part of the Antarctic. The
       Bank was not able to accommodate this request as its official documents can only
       present maps obtained from the GSD Map Design Unit.


Note: The recipient prepared a 35-page completion report (June 2015) that is archived in
the Bank’s project files. The following summary comprises the key evaluative sections of
the report.

LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS DE DESARROLLO DEL PROYECTO

Para llevar adelante la evaluación final de los resultados del proyecto, se dividieron los
productos previstos en el Documento de Evaluación de Proyecto (Informe Nº 54488-AR,
Anexo 4) en función de su relación con los tres objetivos principales de Componentes 1 y
2 y el objetivo del Componente 3. Luego, se evaluó el nivel de cumplimiento de cada uno.
Componente 1:  Aprovechamiento del Potencial Nacional para la Mitigación del
Cambio Climático
Objetivo 1: Mejora y desarrollo del inventario nacional de emisiones de gases de efecto
invernadero (GEI) del Receptor, incluida la provisión de apoyo para fortalecer la
capacidad técnica del Receptor para la modelización, análisis y proyección de las
emisiones de GEI.
Se alcanzó la mayor parte de los objetivos esperados: Se ha realizado el inventario del año
2012 junto con las series históricas desde el año 1990 y las proyecciones hasta 2030. Se
revisaron los inventarios anteriores, se desarrollaron fichas provinciales de emisiones y
patrones de emisión por sector. También se compararon los resultados del inventario
utilizando las dos directrices metodológicas propuestas por el IPCC (1996 y 2006) y se
plasmó en un informe todos los obstáculos encontrados y sus posibles opciones de mejora.
Los principales hallazgos de dicho informe se vinculan principalmente a dificultades a la
hora de identificar la información relevante, tales como dispersión de fuentes de datos,
inconsistencias entre diferentes fuentes de información, no sistematización de los métodos
de obtención de los datos de origen, falta de valores de incertidumbres asociados a los datos
consignados por las fuentes de información, carencia de factores de emisión locales,
limitaciones de información al nivel de desagregación necesario, entre otros.

Objetivo 2: Realización de estudios sobre el potencial de mitigación en los principales
sectores económicos y emisores de GEI del Receptor, con el propósito de identificar
medidas de mitigación prioritarias.

Se alcanzó la mayor parte de los objetivos esperados: Se desarrollaron informes de
mitigación sectoriales y específicos cubriendo las fuentes de emisión más relevantes
(energía, industria, residuos, agricultura, ganadería, cambio de uso de suelo y silvicultura,

                                             56
transporte y eficiencia energética). En dichos estudios, las medidas fueron analizadas
teniendo presente diferentes aspectos: reducción de emisiones, costos, co-beneficios e
impactos sociales y ambientales, barreras, entre otros.
Objetivo 3: Mejora de un marco habilitante para la implementación de medidas de
mitigación, incluido el diseño y provisión de un conjunto de políticas y medidas de
mitigación destinadas a integrar el cambio climático en la estrategia de desarrollo y
programas sectoriales del Receptor.
Este tercer objetivo del Componente no logró cumplirse según planeado. Sin embargo,
como resultado de los estudios de mitigación, se identificaron posibles Acciones
Nacionales Apropiadas de Mitigación (NAMAs, por su sigla en inglés) en cada uno de los
sectores. También, teniendo en cuenta el marco de las negociaciones internacionales sobre
cambio climático, en el cual cada país debe elaborar y presentar una Contribución Prevista
y Nacionalmente Determinada (INDC, por sus siglas en inglés) con miras a un próximo
acuerdo global vinculante de la CMNUCC, el abundante volumen de información generado
por el Componente 1 se convirtió en el insumo principal del proceso de desarrollo de los
aspectos de mitigación de la INDC que la Argentina presentó a la CMNUCC el 1º de
octubre de 2015.
Componente 2: Fortalecimiento de la Agenda Nacional de Adaptación
Objetivo 1. Provisión de apoyo para la realización de escenarios de modelización
socioeconómica y de cambio climático, destinados a la identificación de acciones
prioritarias e impactos, costos y beneficios esperados (usando como base las conclusiones
de la SNC, según corresponda).
El estudio de Modelos Climáticos, realizado por el Centro de Investigaciones del Mar y la
Atmósfera (CIMA) bajo la Universidad de Buenos Aires (UBA) por una contratación
directa, se desarrolló a la cabalidad según lo planificado.
El objetivo general del estudio Modelos Climáticos fue generar, analizar y sintetizar la
información sobre cambios climáticos observados y proyectados para este siglo en la
Argentina, que pueda servir como base para las decisiones sobre políticas de adaptación al
cambio climático del país. El estudio Modelos Climáticos cuenta con dos productos
principales: un Informe y una Base de Datos.
El Informe contempla el estado del clima en el pasado reciente (desde la segunda mitad del
siglo XX) tanto como el clima proyectado para el futuro (siglo XXI) de la Argentina. Se
basa en una detallada revisión y uniformización de literatura existente, pero sobre todo en
los análisis de los nuevos resultados generados en el marco del estudio. El informe está
dividido en un informe generalizado sobre cambios climáticos de todo el país, incluyendo
una detallada descripción de la metodología utilizada en la generación de los escenarios de
cambio climático, y, además en un informe por cada una de las cuatro regiones del país, a
saber: Región Húmeda, Región Centro, Región Andes y Región Patagonia, Antártida e
Islas del Atlántico Sur. El informe analiza los campos medios anuales y estacionales de

                                            57
precipitación y los campos medios anuales de temperatura media, mínima y máxima de
temperatura, tanto como sus tendencias en clima observada y proyectada. Además se
analizan seis extremos de temperatura y cinco extremos de precipitación en cuanto a sus
valores medios y tendencias. Los 11 extremos fueron elegidos entre 27 extremos del
“Expert Team on Climate Change Detection and Indices” por su relevancia para estudios
de impacto en la Argentina. Para la generación de los escenarios de cambio climático, se
partió de los resultados de 42 modelos climáticos globales de AR5 y 11 modelos climáticos
regionales del proyecto Sudamericano-Europeo CLARIS LPB. Estos 53 modelos fueron
evaluados en cuanto a su representación de 10 índices del clima pasado sobre las cuatro
regiones anteriormente mencionados, y a partir de esta evaluación se eligieron los cuatro
mejores modelos por región. Luego los resultados de estos modelos fueron corregidos y
las correcciones fueron aplicadas sobre cada escenario de cambio climático.
La Base de Datos, disponible en http://3cn.cima.fcen.uba.ar/, contiene todos los datos
observados y simulados que fueron analizados en el informe. El formato de los datos tanto
como la arquitectura de la base y el diseño de su interfaz web fueron especialmente
desarrollados pensando en las consultoras que realizarían los estudios de impacto,
vulnerabilidad y adaptación al cambio climático. Una versión de evaluación se facilitó a la
UEP, al Banco Mundial (Banco), al Comité de Conducción y al Gabinete Técnico Asesor
a mediados de 2014 y, a fines del mismo año la base de datos se liberó para acceso público.
Hasta mediados de diciembre de 2015, se han registrado 680 usuarios en la base de datos
y se han realizado más que 74.478 consultas y 7703 exportaciones de archivos (descargas).
Para apreciar el tamaño de la base de datos se destaca que abarca 10.400 ubicaciones,
cubriendo la Argentina, Antártida e Islas del Atlántico Sur. Comprende 156 millones de
datos observacionales provenientes de 6 bases de datos y 23.700 millones de datos
simulados de los 13 modelos que mejor representan el clima de Argentina.
Objetivo 2. Realización de estudios para el desarrollo ulterior de acciones prioritarias de
adaptación necesarias para fortalecer la preparación del Receptor para los impactos del
cambio climático en las áreas identificadas como más vulnerables.
En lo que respecta a los estudios sobre impacto y vulnerabilidad y adaptación, sobre la base
de la reestructuración realizada en diciembre de 2014, se redefinieron algunas metas de los
resultados esperados, superando la meta de estudios sobre adaptación al cambio climático
oportunamente redefinida. En este sentido, se pasó a desarrollar 9 estudios sectoriales en
lugar de 2, los cuales suman un total de 19 consultorías individuales, superiores a las 14
contrataciones basadas en calidad y costo previstas en el marco de resultados originalmente
revisado para la reestructuración.
Objetivo 3. Mejora de un marco habilitante para la implementación de medidas de
adaptación, incluido el diseño y provisión de un conjunto de políticas y medidas de
adaptación, destinadas a integrar el cambio climático en las estrategias de desarrollo y
programas sectoriales del Receptor.



                                            58
No se pudo realizar el estudio debido a que el tiempo de ejecución del Proyecto no resultó
suficiente.
Componente 3: Fortalecimiento Institucional, Desarrollo de Capacidad y Gestión de
Información
Objetivo: Fortalecer la capacidad institucional de las organizaciones integrantes del
Comité de Dirección del Proyecto, y difundir los resultados de la TNC a un amplio público.
Los esfuerzos de difusión deben estar orientados por una estrategia integral de
comunicación. Se deben adaptar los mensajes y los canales de comunicación en función
de diversos públicos objetivo.
En una primera etapa las necesidades de la TCN respecto al fortalecimiento institucional
se orientaban a la conformación del Comité de Conducción (CC) y Gabinete Técnico
Asesor (GTA), como así también a la designación – a través del COFEMA – de puntos
focales provinciales. En tal sentido, para el monitoreo y evaluación, primero se tomó en
cuenta el número de las designaciones recibidas en cada órgano. En el CC, participaron un
total de 26 agencias públicas; en el GTA ocho organismos no gubernamentales, y del
COFEMA se lograron la designación de 22 puntos focales provinciales (sobre un total de
24 jurisdicciones). Esta arquitectura institucional fue utilizada para someter a consulta y
evaluación los distintos términos de referencia e informes de avance y finales de
Componentes 1, 2 y 3.
Una vez alcanzadas las metas de la participación, se acordaron dos nuevos indicadores:
Nivel de participación en el desarrollo de los estudios de mitigación/adaptación por parte
de organismos claves que integran el Comité de Conducción, respectivamente. En ese
sentido la participación fue definida como la contribución con al menos un comentario
relevante sobre el documento revisado. Las metas definidas para cada indicador fueron
alcanzados.
Dado el poco tiempo que quedó para presentar los resultados de los estudios concluidos
previo al cierre del Proyecto, quedaron pendientes varias acciones del Componente 3,
pensadas originalmente en la estrategia de comunicación. Entre ellas se destaca la
elaboración de materiales educativos, tanto para nivel primario como secundario. Respecto
a la articulación con las provincias, se organizaron talleres y jornadas para la difusión de
actividades y un evento de difusión de los resultados e informes preliminares de la TCN en
cada una de las seis regiones del COFEMA. Por otro lado, la UEP desarrolló una página
web con una difusión amplia de las actividades del Proyecto, incluyendo la publicación
completa de los informes finales de los estudios realizados.
Hacia finales del Proyecto, la Secretaría de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable, a través de
la Dirección de Cambio Climático, exploró alternativas para elaborar el Informe Final de
la Tercera Comunicación Nacional así como para poder llevar a cabo las actividades de
difusión y capacitación pendientes. Se logró un financiamiento de la Comisión Económica
para América Latina y el Caribe (CEPAL) para la compilación de los informes finales de
la TCN y el primer BUR de la Argentina.

                                            59
Componente 4: Gestión del Proyecto
Cabe mencionar que el Banco ha sido riguroso en el cumplimiento de sus estándares, a los
cuales la UEP ha respondido exitosamente en cada uno de ellos.
Respecto a la sostenibilidad de los resultados del Proyecto, desde la SAyDS se habilitarán
todos los mecanismos institucionales correspondientes para poder lograr con mayor éxito
el objetivo último del Proyecto, teniendo presente las limitaciones que el mismo ha sufrido
durante toda su ejecución.
Ante el cierre del Proyecto a mediados de 2015, con el escaso tiempo disponible se realizó
un replanteo de las actividades restantes, dado que fue necesario rearmar otros valores en
función de nuevos compromisos, contratos y consultorías. Esta situación llevó a ajustar los
informes que se envía a áreas gubernamentales de Economía, Control Presupuestario y
Administración, y complementariamente se calcularon los pedidos de desembolsos y
comenzaron las tareas de cierre contable. Se realizaron las gestiones y justificativas finales
del Proyecto, cerrando cuentas bancarias y realizando transferencias definitivas.
LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
El análisis de desempeño respecto de los logros alcanzados y de los principales
inconvenientes experimentados durante la etapa de ejecución del Proyecto permite
formular las siguientes conclusiones y recomendaciones que a continuación se detallan:
Aspectos generales
En primer lugar, cabe mencionar un aspecto referido al diseño del Proyecto ya que en el
cronograma de ejecución inicial la SAyDS y el Banco Mundial no consideraron
adecuadamente los tiempos que demoran los procesos administrativos, los cuales
retrasaron sustancialmente el inicio efectivo de los estudios previstos por el Proyecto.
Por otro lado, el plazo previsto para la apertura de la cuenta para recibir los fondos de la
donación se extendió considerablemente por cuestiones que trascendieron a la Unidad
Ejecutora. Ello llevó, a su vez, a que se aplazara la fecha de inicio del Proyecto, la cual
inicialmente estaba estipulada para el 2 de mayo de 2011. El Decreto 899/12 por el cual se
aprobó la donación recién tuvo lugar en junio de 2012, realizándose el primer desembolso
en diciembre de 2012.
Los procesos de revisión de términos de referencia (TdRs), informes de avance e informes
finales han demandado más tiempo del previsto tanto por las modificaciones solicitadas
por el Banco Mundial como por parte de los miembros del CC y del GTA. Sin embargo,
no se trató de una instancia que pudo reducirse ni omitirse ya que de ella dependió
sustancialmente la calidad de los productos. Es por ello, que la UEP realizó todos los
esfuerzos para agilizar y profundizar dichos mecanismos.
La ejecución del Proyecto ha demostrado que los indicadores con los que contaba el mismo
en su etapa inicial no eran los adecuados para medir la eficacia del Proyecto y la
participación de los actores clave. Estos se encontraban muy enfocados en los resultados

                                             60
finales de los estudios y actividades previstos12. Este aspecto mereció especial atención ya
que la adicionalidad del Proyecto se basó justamente en lograr la incorporación de la
problemática del cambio climático en la agenda de los organismos gubernamentales. En
este sentido, si bien se buscó cumplir en primer término con las obligaciones asumidas con
la CMNUCC, esto es, presentar la Comunicación Nacional, también se hicieron todos los
esfuerzos tendientes a lograr que la misma aporte información relevante y actualizada del
fenómeno en nuestro país, lo cual ha sido alcanzado.
Por último, resulta clave destacar que al encontrarse la UEP dentro de la estructura
institucional de la SAyDS, se contó con un esquema interno específico para la firma de los
contratos y/o convenios, el cual no fue considerado al momento de la preparación del
Proyecto. Por lo expuesto, fue necesario reformular en diversas oportunidades el plan de
ejecución del Proyecto, debido a que los plazos que se consideraron al inicio no permitieron
la ejecución de la cantidad de estudios y actividades previstos originalmente.
Cuestiones relativas a los diferentes Componentes del Proyecto
En lo concerniente al Componente 1 y con relación a la validez de las metas planteadas, el
análisis indica que el factor que más incidió en su incumplimiento fue el establecimiento
de metas temporales que no contemplaran todo el trabajo de preparación que se requiere
para poner en marcha los procesos de contratación del Componente. Además, del análisis
realizado se desprende que al formular el plan original existió una importante sub-
valoración de los plazos de las diferentes etapas de los procesos de contratación respecto
de los reales.
Particularmente, en lo que respecta a los procesos iniciados del Componente 1, se trataba
en todos los casos de la primera vez que se aplicaban los métodos de Selección basada en
la Calidad y el Costo (SBCC) y Selección basada en las Calificaciones de los Consultores
(SCC) en el marco del Proyecto. Esto significó que los mismos debían ser revisados
previamente por el Banco. En la práctica esto hizo que los tiempos requeridos se
duplicaran, ya que cada instancia debía ser revisada y aprobada por la agencia de
implementación.
Por otro lado, considerando la especificidad de los estudios y la imposibilidad de formar
listas cortas con firmas de la misma naturaleza, derivó en la necesidad de un cambio en
los métodos de contratación. Estas cuestiones generaron, a su vez, retrasos que no estaban
previstos. Adicionalmente, el Manual Operativo del Proyecto indicaba límites en los
montos para la definición de métodos de contratación estrictos, según las reglas del Banco


12
 Cabe mencionar que en el diseño del Proyecto se previó que el sistema de monitoreo y evaluación requerirá
más trabajo para ser operativo: “Monitoreo y evaluación: El Proyecto contará con un sólido sistema de
monitoreo y evaluación (M&E). La UEP será responsable del M&E general del Proyecto. En el Manual
Operativo se incluirá un sistema detallado y normas de M&E.”




                                                   61
a nivel de su portafolio en la Argentina. Esto también aportó al desvío de las metas
planteadas. Además, el hecho de no contar con un formato modelo para el pedido de
propuestas para el método SCC hizo que éste tuviera que desarrollarse desde la UEP. Esto
generó varios intercambios y correcciones solicitadas por el Banco que resultaron en
atrasos a los plazos planeados originalmente.
Por otro lado, también se considera que el Plan de Adquisiciones no debió definirse tan
exhaustivamente para todos los estudios previstos del Proyecto en la instancia de diseño de
éste. En ese momento, ni siquiera estaba conformada la UEP con los responsables técnicos
de cada área y se tomaron decisiones que afectaban notablemente la flexibilidad del
Proyecto, sin el asesoramiento necesario. Que se hayan definido los métodos de
contratación para todos los estudios, sin tener en cuenta las características específicas de
cada uno, restringió notablemente la flexibilidad a lo largo del Proyecto y obligó a invertir
mucho tiempo en las gestiones requeridas por el Banco para cambiar el método de
contratación de los estudios.
Por otro lado, se considera que en la etapa de diseño también se subestimaron los tiempos
que iban a requerirse para llevar adelante un proceso tan participativo como lo fue la TCN.
Los envíos de TdRs e informes a revisión por parte de los órganos institucionales y el
Banco insumieron mucho más tiempo del planificado.
Respecto del Componente 2, resulta importante destacar que el CIMA, que elaboró el
estudio referido a Modelos Climáticos, dependiente de la Universidad de Buenos Aires,
tiene un proceso de contratación complejo el cual no estaba previsto en el cronograma de
ejecución del Proyecto elaborado en la etapa de diseño. La Universidad de Buenos Aires
requirió, previo a la firma de un contrato, la celebración de un convenio marco con la
contraparte. Además, no puede aceptar el contrato modelo del Banco en su forma original,
siendo objeto de negociación entre la UBA y la SAyDS. Para futuros contratos a celebrarse
con universidades y/o centros de investigación nacionales deberán considerarse estas
cuestiones.
En cuanto al abordaje de “Impactos y Vulnerabilidad del CC y Adaptación” del
Componente 2, también son válidas las lecciones comentadas por el Componente 1,
respecto a las metas temporales y lo referente al método SCC. Se suma a ello que gran
parte de los expertos sectoriales del Banco que revisaros los documentos apoyando el
equipo responsable desconocen las realidades y particularidades del país (metodológicas,
legales, territoriales, de conflictos, etc.).
Otra de las lecciones aprendidas es, que si bien en el país no son muchos los consultores
expertos en la temática, todos los profesionales contratados han demostrado un interés
supremo por formar parte de Proyecto, superando con extrema responsabilidad y
profesionalismo el cumplimiento de los objetivos específicos y por ende el alcance de los
estudios.
Respecto del Componente 3, el involucramiento de los destinatarios de la información
resultante de la TCN se ve acrecentado a partir de las tareas de difusión en los distintos

                                             62
puntos del país. Con las jornadas de difusión se logra un alto nivel de participación, se
refuerzan y generan vínculos y se abren canales de diálogo e intercambio. En este escenario
queda evidenciado que una forma de llegar a los actores clave, tomadores de decisión e
interesados en general es el encuentro presencial visitando las provincias y generando
espacios de diálogo tanto con referentes técnicos, como con tomadores de decisión. En este
sentido se realizaron, hacia el final del Proyecto, encuentros en Misiones, Mendoza, Salta,
Tierra del Fuego y Ciudad de Buenos Aires. En total participaron más de 400 personas.
Respecto a la participación de organismos institucionales en la revisión de TdRs, informes
de avance y finales cabe señalar que muchas veces el volumen de información generada
por la TCN generó una sobrecarga de trabajo a los técnicos y expertos de esos organismos.
En varias oportunidades hemos recibido pedidos de extensión del plazo para que los
expertos pudieran revisar debidamente los materiales enviados.
En relación al Componente 4, la falta de cobertura de algunos puestos clave de la Unidad
Ejecutora durante el inicio de la ejecución, en particular el Coordinador de Comunicación
y el Especialista de Adquisiciones generó ciertos retrasos, los cuales se reflejaron en la
dinámica de dichas áreas. Sin embargo, resulta importante destacar que durante el inicio
del Proyecto, el personal de la UEP adquirió una amplia experiencia respecto de los
procesos de contratación de firmas consultoras. La UEP destaca la importancia de
eficientizar los procesos relativos a la selección de firmas consultoras con el objetivo de
agilizar los plazos de contratación. En este sentido, se ha identificado que contar con el
asesoramiento del Especialista de Adquisiciones del Banco asignado al Proyecto a lo largo
de cada uno de los procesos a llevar a cabo, facilita el cumplimiento de los objetivos del
Proyecto en tiempo y forma.
Referido a la Gestión Financiera es importante destacar para futuros proyectos que una vez
que se inicie el acuerdo del préstamo o donación, inmediatamente se deberán obtener las
autorizaciones necesarias de la Tesorería General de la Nación y de la Oficina Nacional de
Presupuesto, que permita la apertura de las cuentas ante el banco asignado y acelerar los
tiempos para el primer desembolso.
CONCLUSIONES
A modo de síntesis de las conclusiones obtenidas puede indicarse que las principales causas
que impidieron el logro de los resultados esperados fueron: problemas coyunturales de la
SAyDS que afectaron la ejecución incrementando los tiempos de gestión y un cronograma
de ejecución ambicioso en relación a los tiempos de ejecución, habiéndose subestimado
los tiempos y plazos necesarios para los procesos de contratación de los estudios.
La experiencia indica que el Proyecto no ha presentado dificultades respecto de las
cuestiones técnicas, sino meramente administrativas. En este sentido, no debe dejar de
considerarse que el funcionamiento de la UEP dentro de la SAyDS permite al organismo
responsable de la definición de las políticas ambientales, la inclusión y consideración de
temáticas de relevancia a nivel nacional en las actividades previstas por el Proyecto, lo cual
agrega un gran valor a los estudios que han sido generados.

                                             63
Por último, es importante destacar que si bien el plazo de ejecución del Proyecto no resultó
suficiente para llevar a cabo la totalidad de los estudios y actividades planificados, el
proceso participativo aplicado para los diferentes TdRs, informes de avance e informes
finales en coordinación con las agencias gubernamentales relacionadas y otros sectores
clave de la sociedad facilitará el desarrollo de futuros estudios en sectores clave. Este
Proyecto ha logrado un amplio consenso en lo que se refiere a los estudios a ser
contemplados en la Comunicación Nacional: sus alcances y objetivos, y finalmente se
espera también su apropiación por parte de dichos organismos. La calidad de estudios
resultante permitirá a los tomadores de decisión evaluar las estrategias a seguir para la
incorporación de la temática a los planes de desarrollo sectoriales, contando con
información precisa y actualizada. Además, el Proyecto supo responder a las vicisitudes
surgidas en relación al tiempo de ejecución, debiendo dejar de lado algunos estudios pero
incorporando nuevos adecuados en el marco temporal previsto para su ejecución.  




                                            64
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    65
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The Project Appraisal Documents is available in English at:
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/12/13548072/argentina-third-national-
communication-united-nations-framework-convention-climate-change-project

The Project Appraisal Documents is available in Spanish at:
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/12/13994271/argentina-third-national-
communication-united-nations-framework-convention-climate-change-project-argentina-
proyecto-relativo-la-tercera-comunicacion-nacional-la-convencion-marco-de-naciones-
unidas-sobre-cambio-climatico

The disclosed Bank Project Implementation Status Reports are available through the
Project’s document site at the InfoShop:
http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P116974/ar-third-national-communication-
unfccc?lang=en

All the final TNC reports, in Spanish and with an executive summary in English, are
available at the SAyDS Project website through the hyperlinks presented below:

                            Resumen Componente Inventario y Mitigación
                                       Inventario de GEIs Argentina



                                        Volumen 2.
                                         Procesos       Volumen 3.Agricultura,
  Capítulo     Volumen 1. Energía       Industriales Ganadería y Cambio de Uso del Volumen 4.Residuos
                                         y Uso de        Suelo y Silvicultura
                                         Productos
                                                                 Inventario
 Inventario        Inventario            Inventario                                    Inventario
                                                             Anexos 1 2 3 4 5
   GEIs             Anexos                Anexos                                        Anexos
                                                        Anexos Capas SIG 1 2 3 4 5 6
                    Informe
            EnergíaRenovable MEM                                 Informe
               Biocombustible y                           ReducciónDeforestación
                    Biomasa                                    Forestación
  Estudios          Captura y            Informe               Agricultura              Informe
              Almacenamiento de
                                                                Ganadería
     de             Carbono
                                          Anexos              Curva de CMM              Anexos
 Mitigación  Recuperación Sistema
                   Ferroviario                                Caña de Azúcar
            Eficiencia Energética en                              Anexos
                     PyMES
                    Anexos
                  Indicadores           Indicadores               Informe
 Indicadores                                                                           Indicadores
                     Anexo                Anexos                   Anexo


                                                   66
   Fichas               Fichas                Fichas                     Fichas                Fichas
Provinciales            Anexo                 Anexos                     Anexo                 Anexos
Comparativa             Informe
                                              Informe                    Informe               Informe
Guías IPCC              Anexo
                                            Incluído en
  Plan de
                                             Informe
  Mejora                Informe                                          Informe               Informe
                                            Inventario
Inventarios
                                               GEIs
Acciones de
 Mitigación             Informe              Informe                     Informe               Informe
Identificadas



     Instrumentos                 Relevamiento Internacional / Anexo Relevamiento Internacional / Sistema
      Financieros                                               Financiero
       Escenario
                                                                    Informe
    Socioeconómico




 Informes Finales Componente Fortalecimiento de la Agenda Nacional de
 Adaptación




      Agricultura y Ganadería. Impacto y Vulnerabilidad al Cambio Climático. Posibles Medidas de
                                             Adaptación
        Impacto y Vulnerabilidad al Cambio Climático. Posibles Medidas de Adaptación. Región
                          Cordillerana y de los Oasis de Piedemonte Andino
    Impactos Sobre las Fuentes de Generación de Energía y Sobre la Demanda y Adaptación Frente al
                                          Cambio Climático
               Mundo del Trabajo: Oportunidades, Desafíos y Adaptación al Cambio Climático
    Ecorregiones y Servicios Ecosistémicos: Impacto y Vulnerabilidad al Cambio Climático. Posibles
                          Medidas de Adaptación. Ecorregión Mar Argentino
     Ecorregiones y servicios Ecosistémicos: Impacto y vulnerabilidad al cambio climático. Posibles
                               medidas de adaptación. Región Patagonia
        Vulnerabilidad y Adaptación de la Región Árida y Semiárida Frente al Cambio Climático
       Turismo: Impacto y Vulnerabilidad al Cambio Climático. Posibles Medidas de Adaptación
                   Vulnerabilidad Social Amenaza y Riesgo Frente al Cambio Climático

                                           Anexo 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6




                                                       67
MAP




      68
