      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020187


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P116974                                                AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Argentina                                              Environment & Natural Resources



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-98640                                              31-May-2013                                                               3,054,974.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  01-Feb-2011                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                      0.00                                                 2,439,209.00

  Revised Commitment                                                       0.00                                                 1,397,396.47

  Actual                                                                   0.00                                                 1,397,396.47




 Sector(s)
 Public administration- Transportation(25%):Public administration- Energy and mining(25%):Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and
 forestry(25%):Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood protection(25%)

 Theme(s)
 Climate change(100%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            Victoria Alexeeva                   Christopher David Nelson            IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    This project was financed by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund. The project development objective as stated in the GEF
    Grant Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page ii) was:
    " To strengthen the information base and institutional capacity of the key members of the Steering Committee, in order to integrate
    climate change priorities into the Recipient’s development strategies and relevant sector programs by providing financial and
    technical support to prepare the Third National Communication (TNC)."
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      Component 1. Harnessing National Potential for Climate Change Mitigation. Appraisal estimate US$0.67 million. Actual cost
      US$0.57 million. Activities included: (i) updating Argentina’s Green House Gasses (GHG) inventory for each emitting sector and
      strengthening technical capacity for modeling, analyzing and projecting GHG emissions. (ii) undertaking studies on the potential for
      mitigation in the main GHG emitting sectors and identifying priority mitigation measures. (iii) enhancing the capabilities for implementing
      mitigation measures, including developing Policies and Measures (P&Ms) for integrating climate change considerations in the country
      development strategy and specific sector programs.
      Component 2. Strengthening the National Adaptation Agenda. Appraisal estimate US$1.16 million: Actual cost US$0.63 million. This
      component provided technical assistance for assessing and identifying climate change impacts in the most vulnerable sectors. Activities
      included, conducting socio-economic and climate change modeling scenarios and developing and implementing adaptation actions.
      Component 3. Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building and Information Management. Appraisal estimate US$1.09 million.
      Actual cost US$0.33 million. This component aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of the project steering committee. Activities
      included, providing support for defining the technical scope of activities to be carried for the Third National Communication (TNC),
      strengthening the institutional capacity of national, provincial and municipal governments to integrate climate change considerations in
      sector programs and strategies and preparing and disseminating the TNC.
      Component 4. Project Management. Appraisal estimate US$0.13 million. Actual cost US$0.22 million. This component provided
      technical and operational assistance to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost. Appraisal estimate US$3.05 million. Actual cost US$1.75 million. Actual costs were lower than the appraisal estimate, in
      view of the non-utilization of funds and reduced scope of project activities at completion.
      Project Financing. Appraisal estimate US$2.44 million. At closure, US$1.40 million was disbursed.
      Borrower Contribution. Appraisal estimate 0.61 million. At closure, their contribution was less than planned, at US$0.36 million.
      Dates. There were three project restructurings. Following the first restructuring on 09/05/2011, the fiduciary management responsibility
      was consolidated. The Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (SAyDS) - was to be the implementing agency, unlike in
      the original plan, when technical and fiduciary functions were split between the implementing agency and the Chief of the Cabinet of
      Ministers (JGM).
      The second restructuring on 02/15/2013 extended the project closing date by 18 months (from 05/31/2013 to 11/13/2014), to make up
      for the delays in project effectiveness in the initial stages and implementation delays during project execution.
      The third restructuring was on 12/19/2014. This restructuring extended the project closing date by an additional seven and half months ,
      from 11/13/2014 to 06/30/2015). This extension was approved for a combination of factors including, completing ongoing climate
      mitigation and adaptation studies, preparing a basic Biennial Update Report (BUR) to the UNFCC and conducting dissemination work
      related to capacity building. The restructuring also reallocated funds between components and revised the results framework. The targets
      for climate adaptation studies were reduced and studies pertaining to preparation of climate adaptation policies and measures was
      dropped.
      The project closed about 25 months beyond schedule on 06/30/2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Despite uncertainties regarding the precise consequences of Carbon dioxide emissions, there is general consensus that climate change
     impacts will affect the functioning of key worldwide ecosystems. Having ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
     (UNFCCC) in 1994, Argentina was required to periodically submit National Communications (NCs) to UNFCCC regarding the following. (i)
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



       National inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removal by greenhouse gases using agreed methodologies. (ii) A general
       description of the steps taken. (iii) Other information relevant to UNFCCC objectives. Argentina submitted the First FC in 1997 and the second
       in 2007. According to the Second NC, significant vulnerabilities in Argentina for the period up to 2040 included: (i) reduction in the water level
       in the La Plata Basin. (ii) increased water stress in northern and western parts of the country. (iii) potential water crisis in selected areas. (iv)
       intense precipitation and floods in some zones. (v) glacier retreat with implications for hydro-power generation and agriculture. (vi) increased
       vulnerability of coastal areas to sea level rise. The project objectives of improving the information base for making policy decisions on climate
       related issues and designing climate change priorities that could be integrated with the development strategy and sector programs, were
       highly relevant for the government strategy at appraisal.
       The project development objectives are relevant to the Bank strategy for Argentina. At appraisal, the key objective of the growth pillar of the
       Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2010-2012 period highlighted the need for: (i) Infrastructure development with a focus on
       expanding access of the poor to basic services in vulnerable sectors (such as water supply and sanitation, urban and regional transport,
       reducing vulnerability to urban flooding and drainage problems, removing logistics and transport bottlenecks). (ii) Rural development and
       environmental management. The project activities, aimed at generating relevant data for planning and strengthening the capacity for
       assessing climate change considerations in the vulnerable sectors, were consistent with the project development objectives. The CPS for the
       fiscal years 2015-2018 identifies climate change as one of the key action areas and the third theme of the CPS highlights the need for
       reducing environmental risks and safeguarding natural resources. The Bank’s regional climate change strategy identified adaptation to climate
       change impacts as a top priority in Latin America.
       The project development objectives were in line with the GEF support to Enabling Activities (EA) under the GEF Climate Change Focal Area
       (CCFA). The GEF-4 programming document also emphasizes the need to help national communications develop strategic documents for
       identifying and implementing climate change programs and activities at the national level.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design


       The statement of the project development objectives is clear and the causal link between project activities, outputs, and outcomes is
       logical. Component one activities (such as, updating the GHG inventory and undertaking studies on the potential for mitigation in the main CHG
       sectors) in conjunction with component two activities (such as assessing climate change impacts and developing climate change and
       developing adaptation actions, policies and measures) can be expected to contribute to the project development objective of strengthening the
       information base for climate change agenda. This in combination with Component three activities aimed at capacity building can be expected to
       contribute to improving the institutional capacity for integrating climate change priorities into development strategies and sector programs. The
       results framework, however, lacked clarity and neither the original nor the revised framework provided a robust way for measuring capacity
       considerations which were needed for integrating climate change considerations in development strategy and sector programs. The original two
       year implementation period was unrealistic, given that project activities could not be implemented simultaneously but required sequencing. For
       instance, climate modeling studies were to precede adaptation studies and developing mitigation policies and measures was contingent on
       completion of the other two studies.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



     To strengthen the information base of the key members of the Steering Committee to prepare the Third National Communication (TNC).


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Green House Gasses (GHG) inventories were developed for 2010 and 2012 as targeted, using the methodology used by the
        Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
        • The regional climate change scenarios and database with climate change scenarios were completed as targeted. The database
        covered 11 indicators used for assessing climate change factors during two time periods: The near term (defined as expected conditions
        between 2011 and 2039) and the long term (defined as the period from 2075-2099). This information was made publicly available
        through the Internet.
        • An analysis of GHGs emissions were completed for the following sectors (energy, industrial processes, agriculture, forestry and other
        land use and the waste sector, as targeted.
        • Climate vulnerability assessments were completed as targeted for four geographical regions (Cordilleran, Patagonia, Central and
        Argentina Sea and Coastal Areas). The assessments included identification and preliminary prioritization of adaptation measures in key
        socioeconomic sectors.
        • The inputs for the Biennial Update Report (BUR) of the Argentine Republic were completed at project closure, while the compilation of
        the actual BUR report was carried out during the second half of 2015 with ECLAC funding and submitted to UNFCCC during COP21.
        • The project delivered inputs for preparing Argentina’s “Intended Nationally Determined Contribution” (INDC), a new UNFCCC
        initiative under the Warsaw Agreement (Conference of the parties (COPs 19) in late 2013, for preparing the first global arrangement in
        the climate change agenda.
        • 18 sector specific studies on climate mitigation were completed. This exceeded the original target of 11 but was slightly short of the
        revised target of 19, which was set as some tools were re-defined as separate outputs.
        • 11 studies were completed (including a climate modeling study and studies on sector-specific impact, vulnerability and adaptation
        options), as compared to the original target of nine and revised target of four.


     Outcomes

        • The Third National Communications was submitted by Argentina in December 2015. According to the additional information provided
        by the Task Team Leader, this included an updated national GHG inventory, the identification of national mitigation potential, the
        development of climate change scenarios, the identification of the impact and vulnerability to climate change and adaption measures to
        face them; in most cases, mitigation measures were identified with cost-benefit analyses.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To strengthen the institutional capacity of the key members of the Steering Committee, in order to integrate climate change priorities into
     the country's development strategies and relevant sector programs by providing financial and technical support to prepare the Third
     National Communication (TNC).

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Eight agencies reviewed and provided comments on each mitigation study, reviewed by the Steering Committee and Technical
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



    Advisory Committee as targeted.
    • Seven agencies reviewed and provided comments on each adaptation study reviewed by the Steering Committee and Technical
    Advisory Committee.
    • Many activities aimed to expand dissemination and capacity building were not completed as targeted.


 Outcomes
 A qualitative on line survey was conducted to collect information on the perceptions regarding the Third National Commitment of 81
 individuals, including 43 from the Steering Committee (SC), 16 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and 22 Federal Council of
 Environment (COFEMA) members. Based on a small share of responses in the perception of the increase in capacity (a total of 24
 responses), about half of 10 SC members rated the increase in capacity as modest, and 33% -satisfactory, while 77% of nine
 COFEMA representatives and all five from TAC expressed satisfaction (ICR, p.16; Annex 5). Overall, the ICR (p.19) assesses the
 institutional capacity strengthening as substantial for the SAyDS and modest for the SC and TAC members and COFEMA focal points; as
 for other initial target groups such as teachers and municipal level decision-makers, capacity building was negligible.




 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 Economic and Financial Analysis
 A formal economic or financial analysis for the project was not conducted at appraisal or at completion, as the project financed mainly
 technical assistance, capacity building and awareness activities.
 Administrative and Operational Issues
 There were administrative and operational inefficiencies. The project which was approved in February 2011, became effective only in July
 2012 on account of government delays. These delays meant that the project which was originally envisaged for a 25 month implementation
 period, started 23 months after approval. These delays further exacerbated by procurement delays for the critical climate modeling study.
 Finally, despite a 25 month extension to the project closing date, a number of activities were dropped due to insufficient time. At closure,
 around 43 percent of the GEF grant (including much of the financing intended for institutional strengthening and capacity building through
 dissemination and consultation with stakeholders) was not utilized.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                             Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                               0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                            0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)




Relevance of objective is rated High and that of Design is Modest. Efficacy, of the first objective, “to improve the information base of the key
members of the steering Committee to prepare the Third National Communication” was rated as Substantial and efficacy of the second objective
“To strengthen the institutional capacity of the key members of the steering committee” was rated Modest. Efficiency was rated Modest due to
administrative inefficiencies, which contributed to delays, and the scope of the project was reduced considerably during implementation.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Government Commitment. Having ratified the UNFCCC, Argentina is required to periodically submit National commitments and Biennial
Update Reports (BUR2) to UNFCC. According to the Task Team Leader, unlike the national commitments which did not stipulate a time line,
BUR's are to be submitted once in every two years. The Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (SAyDS) began the process
of preparing the BUR2 in August 2015 with support from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and since the UNFCC process is
gaining traction and getting stronger national contributions across the globe, the risk to development outcome from Government Commitment is
rated as Modest.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design was based on lessons from prior Bank financed GEF and carbon finance activities, analytical activities on climate change
     and from the preparation of Argentina’s Second National Communications to the UNFCCC. Several risks were identified (including substantial
     risks associated with institutional and coordination risk, given that the mitigation and adaptation agenda involved a variety of sectors,
     institutions and policies, limited experience of the agency responsible for the implementing the project, possibility of cost-overruns and a
     relatively short implementation period and procurement risk). Several risk mitigation measures were incorporated and the overall project risk
     was rated as Modest at appraisal.

        • The implementation period was short and as indicated in Section 3b, the design underestimated the time for implementation, since
        project activities could only be implemented in a sequenced fashion. This in conjunction with other implementation delays resulted in
        reduced scope of project activities at closure.
        • There were drawbacks in Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) indicators. The indicators chosen for the capacity building dimension of the
        project (which aimed at integrating climate change policies into the development strategy and sector programs were inappropriate.
        • The project underestimated the commitment of the implementing agency. The sense of ownership of the implementing agency was not
        strong and this was reflected through inadequacy of staffing during the first year of implementation. The preparation team underestimated
        the issues associated with coordination. Given that the 26 ministries/agencies were involved, the main implementing agency was not able
        to effectively secure coordination between the different agencies.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



b. Quality of supervision
   Nine Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were filed over a five year period. During implementation, the supervision team restructured the
   project seven months after approval to reflect changes in Argentine regulations that created an opportunity to improve implementation
   arrangements through consolidating fiduciary responsibilities under the implementing agency.

      • The supervision team was not able to proactively identify problems, given that it took nearly 18 months to make the project effective on
      account of government delays.
      • The project closing date was extended by only 18 months initially in February 15, 2013, despite the slow pace of execution. The project
      closing date was extended further by about seven and half months in November 13, 2014. A longer initial extension could have helped in
      smoothing implementation.
      • The revised indicators did not strengthen the results framework.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government engagement and commitment was proactive and consistent in the final year of the project as demonstrated by the strong
   support provided by the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance and Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers (Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros.
   JGM).

      • The Government’s commitment, however, lacked strong political priority in the initial years of the project and this was reflected
      through the delays in making the project effective.
      • Although the Government provided counterpart funding in kind, the counterpart funding was less than planned at appraisal.
      • Some of the procurement and implementation delays were exacerbated by the weak monitoring and supervision by the government
      and the relevant government agencies were not proactively involved in resolving problems.




   Government Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (Secretaria de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable – (SAyDS) was in charge
   of implementing the project. The project implementation unit was in charge of coordinating activities with involved other ministries
   and government agencies. The implementing agency provided the in kind administrative and logistical support during implementation.
   Given the lack of time to complete the required reports and studies, the implementing agency found alternative source of funding (including
   from the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), to complete and submit the Third National Commitment
   and the Biennial Update Report to UNFCCC).

      • There were procurement delays due to staffing issues in the Project Implementation Unit and the agency was not able to recruit a full
      time procurement specialist or coordinator with relevant experience on Bank-financed projects and political authority.
      • The implementing agency representatives were not able to coordinate effectively between the 26 ministries and agencies.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The original monitoring indicators were appropriate. This included two GEO indicators relating to strengthening the information base through
   production of mitigation and adaptation studies and one GEO indicator for measuring the increased capacity of government institutions and
   other targeted stakeholders. The original Intermediate indicators related to the aspects of the mitigation and adaptation studies (namely GHG
   intensity of the proposed mitigation and total cost-benefit of the proposed adaptation).




b. M&E Implementation
   A new GEF outcome indicator, submission of a Biennial Update Report (BUR) by Argentina’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship (MREC)
   to UNFCCC - was added. The submission of a BUR was a new UNFCC requirement, established after the project was approved. The original
   GEO indicator pertaining to monitoring capacity building activities through surveys of targeted stakeholders was dropped. Neither the original
   nor the revised framework provided a robust way for measuring outcomes associated with capacity building dimension of the project.




c. M&E Utilization
   The monitoring indicators mainly measured implementation progress.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as “Category C” for environmental assessment purposes. No safeguard policies were triggered (PAD, page 23).
   The ICR does not report any environmental or safeguard issues during implementation.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management
   The ICR (page 11) notes that there was compliance with Bank’s Financial Management requirements and the 2013 audit report was unqualified.
   Procurement.
   Procurement management was shifted to the implementing agency after project effectiveness to consolidate and streamline key project
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



     management responsibilities within a single institution. The implementing agency found it difficult to attracting a procurement specialist with
     proven experience with Bank procedures. This resulted in procurement delays both in the initial years of the project and in the final half of
     2014. The ICR does not report any case of misprocurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                    ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                    Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Risk to Development Outcome                Modest                             Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                           Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Borrower Performance                       Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     ---
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons




The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.
1 A careful assessment of the implementation period is required both during preparation and at restructuring. In the case of this
project, despite the slow pace of execution, the project closing date was extended by only 18 months during the second restructuring. The
project closing date was extended again by seven and half months.
2 Long delay between project design and execution can result in high transactions costs. A project that faced significant initial delays in
getting operational may require working within a changed context, with new actors and/or circumstances. This can cause high transaction costs
and efficiency losses, in particular for a small operation.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR 3rd Natl Communication UNFCCC (P116974)



15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and well-written; it candidly discusses the problems encountered both in the initial years and during the rest of project
implementation. It also provides an in -depth critical analysis in the assessment of the project's efficacy. The lessons are generic. While there
was no formal economic analysis of the project, the efficiency section of the ICR could have been substantiated with some qualitative
evidence. A more sparring use of acronyms could have helped in making it easy for the reader.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
