CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1966, between the
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called. the Associ-
ation).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Province of East Pakistan
have requested the Association to assist in financing a
project for the establishment of modern grain storage and
handling facilities in the Province of East Pakistan;
WHEREAS Sweden has by an agreement of even date here-
with agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in
a principal amount of twenty five million Swedish kronor
equivalent at present parity rates to four million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) for the purpose
aforesaid;
WHEREAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the
Borrower's assistance, carry out the said project or cause
it to be carried out and the Borrower will as part of such
assistance make available to the Province of East Pakistan
the proceeds of the development credit provided for herein
and the proceeds of the aforesaid credit from Sweden;
WHEREAS the Borrower, Sweden and the Association
have by an agreement of even date herewith made arrange-
ments for the processing of applications for withdrawal of
the proceeds of the financing to be provided by the Associ-
ation and Sweden, and for the regulation of other matters
of common interest connected with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing on the basis of the
foregoing, to make a development credit available on the
terms and conditions provided herein, in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Province of East


﻿4
Pakistan and the Association, and in the aforesaid agree-
ment between the Borrower, Sweden, and the Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitiona
SEoTIoN 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No.
1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is deleted.
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Coat of Goods is
to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit
are to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in
the respective currencies of the countries from
which such goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency
of the Borrowet or for goods produced
in (including services supplied from)
the territories of the Borrower, in such
currency or currencies as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in
which the cost of the goods financed out


﻿5
of such proceeds has been paid or is pay-
able.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from
time to time agree on any other currency in
which withdrawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03
as follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal
with Other Currency. If withdrawal shall be made in any
currency which the Association shall have purchased with
another currency for the purpose of such withdrawal,
the portion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such
other currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is re-numbered Section 3.05.
(e) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 are deleted,
and Section 4.06 is re-numbered Section 4.01.
(f) Section 5.03 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 5.03. Cancellation by the Association.
If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous
period of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in the
Development Credit Agreement as the Closing Date an
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the
Credit Account or (c) if by June 30, 1967 the actions
listed in the Schedule to this Agreement shall not have
been carried out to the satisfaction of the Association
and there shall remain unwithdrawn any amount of the
Credit, the Association may by notice to the Borrower
terminate, in whole or in part, the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount of the Credit shall
be cancelled. If, however, the Borrower informs the


﻿6
Association that the Province is ready to award contracts
for the construction of any or all of the silos (except
Chalna), then for the purposes of this Sub-Section (c)
hereof the Association will determine before June 30,
1967, whether the actions listed in the Schedule to this
Agreement have been carried out satisfactorily."
(g) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "the
Project Agreement, the Swedish Agreement or the Adminis-
tration Agreeient" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement."
(h) Section 7.02 is deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
" Section 7.02. Evidence of Authority.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of the Borrower, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by the Borrower under the Development Credit
Agreement, and the authenticated -pecimen signature of
each such person.II
(i) Paragraph 9 of Section 9.01 is modified as follows:
"Tha term 'Project' means the project for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Schedule to the
Administration Agreement and as the description thereof
shall be amended from time to time by agreement between
the parties thereto."
(j) Section 8.04 is deleted.
(k) Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan, acting by its President."
(1) For the purposes of the Development Credit Agree-
ment the term "goods" as defined in paragraph 10 of
Section 9.01 shall include any immovable property required
for the Project.


﻿7
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement or in any schedule thereto, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
(a) "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Province and the Association of even date herewith,
providing for the carrying out of the Project.
(c) "Swedish Agreement" means the agreement referred
to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreoment, as the same may
from time to time be amended by agreement of the parties
thereto.
(d) "Swedish Credit" means the financing made avail-
able to the Borrower under the Swedish Agreement.
(e) "Administration Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may from time to time be amended by agreement of
the parties thereto.
(f) " Food Department" means the Food Department of
the Government of East Pakistan or any successor agency
thereof responsible for the regulation and control of pro-
curement, storage, supply and distribution of foodgrains
and with responsibility for carrying out the Project.
(g) "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the
Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million two hundred thousand dollars
($19,200,000).


﻿8
SECTiON 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit . Meount the amount of the Credit. The amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the. rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in the Development Credit Agreement
and the Administration Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Associ-
ation a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/ of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(b) Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 1, and July 1 in each year.
SEcTION 2.04. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing January 1, 1976, and ending July 1, 2015, each
iistalment to and including the instalment payable on
July 1, 1985 to be one-half of one per cent (Y of 17o) of
such principal amount, and each instalment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (12%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Swedish Credit to be applied exclu-
sively to financing the cost of goods required to carry out
the Project. The proceeds of the Credit and of the Swedish
Credit shall be withdrawn and utilized only in accordance
with the Development Credit Agreement and the Swedish
Agreement respectively, and as provided in the Adminis-
tration Agreement.            I
SECTioN 3.02, Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all


﻿9
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Swedish Credit to be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SzcTioN 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out and operated with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering and
financial practices.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall re-lend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to the Province
on terms and conditions to be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, subject to
modifications by further agreement between them.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available to the Province, promptly as needed, all
sums and other resources which shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
action which shall be necessary on its part to enable the
Province to perform all its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Swedish Agreement and the Administration
Agreement and shall not take or permit any action that
would interfere with the performance of such obligations
by the Province.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to fmancial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and


﻿10
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit or to the Administration Agreement.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the - "edit hall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.05. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement and the Administration Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territoriec
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or
registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event' specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified or referred to in paragraph
(b) or paragraph (j) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days


﻿11
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof the Association, at its option, may
declare the principal of the Orodit thon outstanding to be
due and payable immediatrly, anr upon any such declara-
tion such principal shall become 6ue and payable immedi-
ately, anything in the Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (j) of
the Regulations, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit shall have been suspended or termi-
nated in whole or in part.
(b) The outstanding principal of the Swedish Credit
shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in
advance of the agreed maturity thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall have cancelled any part of the
Swedish Credit without a cancellation of a corresponding
proportion of the Credit.
(d) The Province shall have failed to perform any
covenant or agreement of the Province under the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Regulations:
(a) That the Borrower and Sweden shall have entered
into an agreement providing for a credit in a principal
amount of twenty-five million Swedish kronor equivalent


﻿12
at present parity rates to four million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($4,800,000) for the Project.
(b) That the Borrower, the Association and Sweden shall
have entered into an agreement making arrangements for
the processing of applications for the withdrawal of the
proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit, for the utilization of such proceeds and for the
rgulation of other matters of common interest connected
therewith.
(c) That either concurrently with or prior to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement becoming effective, the Swedish
Agreement, the Administration Agreement and the Project
Agreement shall become or shall have become effective and
constitute valid and binding obligations on the respective
parties to those agreements in accordance with their respec-
tive terms.
(d) That the Province shall have, in accordance with
Section 2.01 (a) of the Project Agreement, appointed a
Project Manager acceptable to the Association.
SEcTIoNq 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Swedish Agreement and the Administration
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
that each such agreement constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Province and that each constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Province in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by May 15, 1966,
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of


﻿the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associ-
ation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for purposes of this Section. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower, Sweden
and the Province of such later date.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the carrying out of the Project
shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Rawalpindi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Economic
Rawalpindi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿14
SEcTION 7.03. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for
the purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAmic REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By S. M. SULAIMAN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION
By GEORGE D. WOODS
President


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Actions to be taken by June 30, 1967
Engineering and Preliminary Works
(a) completion of the works on Part I (1) (except for
construction drawings) and (2) (except for Chalna) of
the Description of the Project;
(b) performance of sufficient work on Part I (3) of the
Description of Project that construction of the silos can
proceed according to the schedule envisaged in the contracts
therefor.
Improvement of Existing Storage
Employment of engineering consultants to determine
requirements, godown repairs and modifications, including
preparation of a plan of operations.
Inventory Control System
Appointment of consultants to devise a system of inven-
tory control and to prepare a plan to carry it out.
Pest-Infestation Control
(a) employment of experts to devise a program of sani-
tation and pest-infestation control;
(b) adoption of a training program for pest control
squads.
Training Program
(a) selection of personnel to be trained in silo manage-
ment and operations, grain inventory control, sanitation,
pest-infestation control and other technical skills needed
for silo operations;
(b) adoption of a training program to be conducted in a
training facility to be established in East Pakistan.


