CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 381 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 381 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) on February 10, 1966 the Association agreed to make
available a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 83) in an amount
equivalent to nineteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($19,200,000) to assist
in the financing of a project for the establishment of modern grain storage and
handling facilities (hereinafter called Foodgrain Storage Project);
(B)   on February 10, 1966 the Kingdom of SwCden (hereinafter called
Sweden) agreed to make available a development credit in an amount of twenty-five
million Swedish Kronor (SKr25,000,000) to assist in the financing of Foodgrain
Storage Project;
(C)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association and
from the special account opened by the Sveriges Riksbank, Stockholm, acting as
agent for Sweden, under the aforementioned development credits were suspended
on December 29, 1971 and February 1, 1972, respectively;
(D)   the Borrower has requested Sweden and the Association, jointly, to
extend financial assistance to the Borrower for the continuation and completion
of Foodgrain Storage Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, and to include
in such joint financial assistance provision for repayment to Sweden of the financial
assistance extended by Sweden for Foodgrain Storage Project under the
development credit referred to in paragraph (B) above and for repayment to the
Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 83 withdrawn from the credit
account opened by the Association thereunder;
(E)   Sweden has agreed to extend a development credit to the Borrower
in a principal amount of twenty-five million Swedish Kronor (SKr25,000,000) upon
the ter-   and conditions set forth in an agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Swedish Credit Agreement);
(F)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;


﻿4
(G)   by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Joint
Financing Agreement) the Borrower, Sweden and the Association deem it to be
in their mutual interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds
of said credits and the execution of the project, as well as other matters relating
thereto, be regulated therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum shall be payable on the portion to be paid out of the Credit
Account of the principal amount of any special commitme   entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of the 3oint Financing
Agreement and outstanding from time to time if, under such special
commitment, the Association shall have agreed to pay such principal amount
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Credit."
(b)   Article V is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellations by the Borrower. The Borrower may by
notice to the Association cancel any amount of the Credit which the
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such notice, except
that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit in respect
of which the Association shall have entered into a special commitment
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered into
Section 6.02(h).


﻿5
(e)   Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or the Swedish Credit
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement" wherever the latter words appear in Section 6.02.
(f)   Section 6.04 is amended to read as follows:
" Section 6.04. Anounts Subject to Special Commitment Not Affected
by Cancellation or Suspension by the Association. No cancellation or
suspension by the Association shall apply to amounts subject to any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of
the Joint Financing Agreement."
(g)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(h)   Section 8.01 is amended by inserting the wordo "and the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
the first sentence of Section 8.01 and by inserting the words "or the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in the second
sentence of Section 8.01.
(i)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($19,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth


﻿6
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with Article II of the
Joint Financing Agreement.
(c)   Except as shall otherwise be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.04. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1983 and ending January 1, 2023,
each installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 1993 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.06. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit;
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to
be applied in accordance with Article III of the Joint Financing Agreement.
(b)   If the Association shall have reasonably determined    that the
procurement of any item in any Category of Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing
Agreement is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
3.01 of the Joint Financing Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association


﻿7
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with Article IV of the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria
of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in the Swedish Credit Agreement shall have been suspended, or the


﻿8
Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part,
and the Borrower shall have failed to obtain funds from other sources in substitution
therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and such event
shall have continued for a period of one hundred and twenty days;
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower under the Joint Financing Agreement and
such default shall have continued for a period of sixty days; and
(c)   The outstanding principal of the credit provided for in the Swedish
Credit Agreement, or any part thereof, shall have been declared, or become, due
and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with the
terms of said Agreement.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any event specified in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
The execution and delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement and the Joint
Financing Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and Sweden shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of each such Agreement or the right to make
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the other of such
Agreements or of this Development Credit Agreement or the right to make
withdrawals thereunder, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   The Swedish Credit Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement
have been d,ly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf


﻿9
of the Borrower and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower in
accordance with their terms:
(b)  The Borrower's Ministry of Food has full power and authority to
implement the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in connection
therewith, and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been
duly and validly performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of July 18, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By   /s/ A. R. Choudhury    Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


