CONFORMED COPY
0
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
Development Credit
Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1973, between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
and the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called Bangladesh).
WHEREAS (A) on February 10, 1966 the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter
called Sweden) agreed to make available a development credit in an amount of
twenty-five million Swedish Kronor (SKr25,000,000) to assist in the financing of
a project for the establishment of modern grain storage and handling facilities
(hereinafter called Foodgrain Storage Project);
(B)   on February 10, 1966 the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the Association) agreed to make available a development credit
(hereinafter called Credit No. 83) in an amount equivalent to nineteen million
two hundred thousand dollars ($19,200,000) to assist in the financing of Foodgrain
Storage Project;
(C)   Bangladesh has requested Sweden and the Association, jointly, to
extend financial assistance to the Borrower for the continuation and completion
of Foodgrain Storage Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, and to include
in such joint financial assistance provision for repayment to Sweden of the financial
assistance extended by Sweden for Foodgrain Storage Project under the
development credit referred to in paragraph (A) above and for repayment to the
Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 83 withdrawn from the credit
account opened by the Association thereunder;
(D)   the Association has agreed to extend a development credit to
Bangladesh in a principal amount of nineteen million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($19,700,000) upon the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
of even date herewith;
(E)   Sweden has agreed to extend a development credit to Bangladesh upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
(F)   by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Joint
Financing Agreement) Bangladesh, Sweden and the Association deem it to be in
their mutual interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of
said credits and the execution of the project, as well as other matters relating
thereto, be regulated therein;


﻿4
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Credit
1.   Sweden shall make available to Bangladesh a development credit in an amount
of twenty-five million Swedish Kronor (SKr25,000,000) subject to the provisions
of the Agreement, of which the attached Annex forms an integral part, and to
such other provisions as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
2.   Unless otherwise agreed, withdrawals shall be made as described in the Joint
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
Bangladesh shall cause the proceeds of the Swedish Credit to be used in
accordance with the Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement to assist jointly
with the credit provided for under the Association Development Credit Agreement
in financing the Project and in repaying certain financial assistance previously
extended, as described in the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with Article I shall be paid
by Sweden, as required to meet requests by Bangladesh for withdrawals and to
comply with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule I to the Joint Financing
Agreement, to the credit of an account in Swedish Kronor opened in the books
of the Sveriges Riksbank, Stockholm, acting as agent for Sweden. The account
shall be denominated "People's Republic of Bangladesh, Special Account No. 3"
(hereinafter called the Special Account).
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1.   Bangladesh shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of the Agreement and
the Joint Financing Agreement, to withdraw from the Special Account such


﻿5
proportion of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed by Sweden and the Association as agreed in accordance with
the terms of the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Service of the Swedish Credit
1.   Bangladesh shall pay to Sweden a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Swedish
Credit withdrawn from the Special Account and outstanding from time to time.
The service charge shall be payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31
in each year. The first payment shall, however, be made not before December 31,
1973. The service charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.
2.    Bangladesh shall repay to Sweden the principal of the Swedish Credit
withdrawn from the Special Account in semi-annual installments payable on
June 30 and December 31 commencing June 30, 1983 and ending December 31,
2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on December 3 1,
1992 to be one-half per cent (1/2%) of such principal amount and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Bangladesh shall have the right to repay in advance of maturity all or any part
of the principal amount of one or more maturities of the Swedish Credit specified
by Bangladesh.
3.   The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be paid by
Bangladesh in Swedish Kronor to the Sveriges Riksbank in favor of Sweden.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
1.   Bangladesh shall perform all the covenants, agreements and obligations of
Bangladesh under the Joint Financing Agreement.
2.    Bangladesh shall furnish to Sweden evidence of the authority of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Bangladesh, take any action or execute any
document under the Agreement.
3.   Any notice or request under the Agreement and any agreement between
the Parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
Ip


﻿6
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when delivered through
diplomatic channels.
4.    With regard to procurement of goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Swedish Credit, Bangladesh shall afford to Swedish suppliers
no less favorable treatment than that afforded to other foreign suppliers.
5.   The Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) shall represent
Sweden in (i) the implementation of the Agreement and (ii) amendments to the
Agreement which do not significantly affect the objectives and scope of the
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
1.   The Agreement shall become effective after it has been signed by duly
authorized representatives of the Parties and concurrently with the Association
Development Credit Agreement becoming effective.
2.    The Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hereunder, except those
set forth in Article V and in the Annex, shall terminate on a date 25 years after
the date of the Agreement or the date upon which the Parties shall have fulfilled
all obligations, including those set forth in Article V, arising from the Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kingdom of Sweden and the People's Republic
of Bangladesh, acting through their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Agreement to be signed.
Done in the District of Columbia, United States of America on the 18th day
of May, 1973, in two original copies in English.
For the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Curt Lidgard
For the
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / A. R. Choudhury
on behalf of the President


﻿7
ANNEX
The following provisions shall govern the rights and obligations under the
Agreement, of which they are considered an integral part with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.
Paragraph 1: Cancellation and Suspension
1.1  The Borrower may by notice to the Lender cancel any amount of
the Swedish Credit which the Borrower shall not have withdrawn, and with respect
to which the Lender shall not be bound through a special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement, prior to the
giving of such notice.
1.2  If any of the following events shall have happened and be continuing,
the Lender may by notice to the Borrower suspend, in whole or in part, the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Special Account:
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or
service charge under the Agreement or in the payment of
principal, service charge or interest under any other financial
commitment entered into by the Borrower in relation to the
Lender.
(b)   The Borrower shall have failed to meet any other obligation
under the Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement and shall
not have rectified such failure after notice by the Lender.
(c)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make
it improbable that the Borrower will be able to perform its
obligations under the Agreement.
(d)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
Development Credit provided for in the Association Agreement
shall have been suspended or terminated, in whole or in part.
(e)  The outstanding principal of the Development Credit provided
for in the Association Development Credit Agreement shall have
been declared, or become, due and payable in advance of the
agreed maturity thereof.
(f)  The Borrower shall have cancelled aay part of the Development
Credit provided for in the Association Development Credit


﻿8
Agreement without the Borrower's having cancelled a
corresponding proportion of the Swedish Credit.
1.3  The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Special
Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be,
until the event or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to
exist or until the Lender shall have notified the Borrower C'iat the right to make
withdrawals has been rOstored, whichever is the earlier; provided, however, that
in the case of any such notice of restoration, the right to make withdrawals shall
be restored only to th extent and subject to the conditions specified in such
notice, and no such no ice shall affect or impair any rights, power or remedy
of the Lender in t!>r ..ct of any other or subsequent event described in this
Paragraph.
1.4  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Special
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Swedish
Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Article
IV, Section 2, of the Agreement as the closing date an amount of the Swedish
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Special Account, the Lender may by
notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice such amount of
the Swedish Credit shall be cancelled.
1.5  No cancellation or suspension by the Lender shall apply to amounts
with respect to which the Lender shall be bound through a special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement.
1.6  Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension all the provisions of
the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as in this Paragraph
specifically provided.
Paragraph 2: Remedies of the Lender
If any event specified in sub-paragraph 1.2 (a), (d) or (f) of Paragraph I
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or if any event specified
in sub-paragraph 1.2 (b) or (c) of Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Lender
to the Borrower, or if the event specified in sub-paragraph 1.2 (e) of Paragraph
1 shall occur, then at any subsequent time the Lender, at his option, may declare
the principal of the Swedish Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.


﻿9
Paragraph 3: Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to either Party under the Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such Party in respect of any
default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power or
remedy of such Party in respect of any oth3r or subsequent default.
Paragraph 4: Arbitration
(a)   Any controversy between the Parties to the Agreement and any claim
by either Party against the other arising under the Agreement which
cannot be settled in a satisfactory manner through diplomatic channels,
within six months, will at the request of either Party be submitted
to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)   The Parties to such arbitration shall be the Lender and the Borrower.
(c)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Lender; a second
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Borrower; and the third arbitrator
(hereinafter called the presiding arbitrator) shall be appointed by
agreement of the Parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President
of the International Court of Justice or failing appointment by him,
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the Parties
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed
by the president arbitrator. In case any arbitrator appointed in
accordance with this Paragraph shall resign, die or become unable to
act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as
herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and
such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original
arbitrator.
(d)   Arbitration proceedings may be instituted under this Paragraph upon
notice by the Party instituting such proceeding to the other Party.
Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the
controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the
relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the Party
instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after the giving of such
notice, the adverse Party shall notify the Party instituting the
proceeding of the name of the arbitrator appointed by such adverse
Party.


﻿10
(e)   If, within sixty days after the giving of such notice instituting the
arbitration proceeding, the Parties shall not have agreed upon a
presiding arbitrator, either Party may request the appointment of a
presiding arbitrator as provided in sub-paragraph (c) of this Paragraph.
(f)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and p!ace as shall
be fixed by the presiding arbitrator. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal
shall determine where and when it shall sit.
(g)   Subject to the provisions of this Paragraph and except as the Parties
shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions
relating to its competence and shall determine its procedure. All
decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by a majority vote.
(h)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the Parties a fair hearing and
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by
default. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall
constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the
award shall be transmitted to each Party. Any such award rendered
in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph shall be final and
binding upon the Parties to the Agreement. Each Party shall abide
by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal
in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph.
(i)   The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Paragraph shall be in
lieu of any other procedure for the determination of the controversies
between the Parties to the Agreement and any claims by either Party
against the other Party arising thereunder.
(j)   Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding
under this Paragraph or in connection with any proceeding to enforce
any award rendered pursuant to this Paragraph shall be made through
diplomatic channels.


