CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 381 BD
Joint Financing Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 381 BD
Joint Financing Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 18, 1973


﻿JOINT FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower), KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
(hereinafter  called   Sweden)    and   INTERNATIONAL        DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement with the Borrower of
even date herewith, Sweden has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in a principal amount of twenty-five million Swedish Kronor (SKr25,000,000), for
the purpose of assisting in the financing of a project for the establishment of modern
grain storage and handling facilities in the territories of the Borrower, as such project
is described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   by a development credit agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in a principal amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($19,700,000), for the purpose aforementioned;
(C)   the parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual interest that the
allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of such credits and the execution
of the project to be financed thereby, as well as other matters relating thereto,
be regulated as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms
wherever used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings:
(a)   The term "Swedish Credit Agreement" means the agreement referred
to in the recital (A) to this Agreement, as from time to time amended.
(b)   The term "IDA Credit Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in the recital (B) to this Agreement, as from time to time amended.
(c)   The term   "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in the
Swedish Credit Agreement.


﻿4
(d)   The term  "IDA Credit" means the credit provided for in the IDA
Credit Agreement.
(e)   The term  "Swedish Credit Account" means the account established
under the Swedish Credit Agreement.
(f)   The term "IDA Credit Account" means the account established under
the IDA Credit Agreement.
(g)   The term "Project" means the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(h)   The several terms defined in the Swedish Credit Agreement and the
IDA Credit Agreement shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds of
Swedish Credit and IDA Credit
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation set forth
in the Swedish Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement, and subject to
the provisions of Section 2.02(c) of the IDA Credit Agreement, the amount of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit may be withdrawn from the Swedish Credit
Account and the IDA Credit Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement among the parties to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Swedish
Credit Account and from the IDA Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments
to be made) for the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount
of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, the Borrower shall deliver to the
Association a written application in such form and containing such statements and
agreements as the Association shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation
to expenditures for the Project.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence in support of each application as the Association shall reasonably
request, whether before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in such application.
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence
must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the
Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the Swedish Credit Account and the IDA
Credit Account the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only
for the purposes specified in this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each such application by the Borrower for withdrawal shall
be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Swedish Credit Account
and from the IDA Credit Account and the funds to be withdrawn pursuant to
such application shall be apportioned by the Association, as nearly as practicable
in the circumstances, between the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit in the ratio
of 1:4 or such other ratio as shall be agreed between Sweden and the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) When the Association shall have approved an application
by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association shall:
(1)        pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the IDA Credit Account to or on the order of
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the IDA
Credit Agreement;
(ii)       promptly give notice to the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as agent
for Sweden, that it has received an application for withdrawal
from the Swedish Credit Account and the IDA Credit Account
in the aggregate amount specified in such notice, that it has
approved payment of the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from
the IDA Credit Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Swedish Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Sveriges Riksbank.
(b)   Upon receipt of such notice from   the Association, the Sveriges
Riksbank, shall, subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation of the Swedish
Credit set forth in the Swedish Credit Agreement, pay the amount so to be
withdrawn from the Swedish Credit Account in the currency and to the payee
stated in the notice.


﻿6
Section 2.06. If at any time the amount of the Swedish Credit or of the
IDA Credit shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applications by the
Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to be requests for withdrawal
of the full amount applied for from the IDA Credit Account or the Swedish Credit
Account only and the provisions of this Article II shall continue to apply mutatis
mutandis until the full amount credited or to be credited to such Account shall
have been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 2.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such terms as shall
be agreed between the Association and the Borrower, the Association may enter
into special commitments to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods and services required for the Project. Any such special
commitment by the Association shall, once it has been notified to Sweden and
the Sveriges Riksbank, constitute an obligation on the part of Sweden to pay in
fulfillment of such special commitment, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension
or cancellation of the Swedish Credit and in conformity with Sections 2.05 and
2.06 of this Agreement, such portion of the total amount to be disbursed, as agreed
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.08. If for the purposes of this Agreement any proceeds of the
Swedish Credit are to be withdrawn in a currency other than Swedish Kronor,
the Sveriges Riksbank shall remit the requested foreign currency amount and shall
debit the Swedish Credit Account with the Swedish Kronor equivalent of such
amount calculated on the basis of the current market selling rate or, if no such
rate applies, such rate as shall be reasonably determined by the Sveriges Riksbank.
ARTICLE III
The Project; Use of Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
and the IDA Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Swedish Credit
and the IDA Credit to expenditures on the Project in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA
Credit shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) the Borrower shall promptly issue
all licenses or permits required for the importation of such goods and services
into its territories.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Food with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, all goods and all
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for carrying out, operating
and maintaining the Project.
Section 4.02. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 4.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association, upon terms
(including terms of reference) and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that by September 30, 1973 (or
such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association)
(a) structural tests and observations of the jetty serving the Chittagong silo in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association shall be completed, and
(b) a plan and schedule of implementation satisfactory to the Association shall
be prepared for modifying said jetty so as to meet the Chittagong Port Authority's
safety standards for the berthing of ocean-going grain carriers.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that all works and facilities included
in the Project, as well as all works and facilities constructed or installed under
Credit No. 83 or under the development credit extended by Sweden on
February 10, 1966, and all works and facilities not included in the Project but
necessary to the proper and efficient operation thereof, will at all times be properly
and efficiently operated and adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices and standards.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports
and work and procurement schedules for the Project and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the Swedish Credit
and the IDA Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project and to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof); (ii) shall enable Sweden's and
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the aforementioned goods
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to Sweden and to the Association all such information as Sweden or
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, and the
operations and financial condition with respect to the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with Sweden and with
the Association to ensure that the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower shall furnish to Sweden
and to the Association all such information as either of them shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower, Sweden and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the
purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit. The Borrower shall promptly
inform Sweden and the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish
Credit or the IDA Credit or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under this Agreement or which shall increase or threaten to increase materially
the estimated cost of the Project.
Section 4.08. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the
Association: (i) the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Swedish Credit or the IDA Credit or Credit No. 83 or the
development credit extended by Sweden on February 10, 1966 to be used in the
territories of the Borrower exclusively in the construction and subsequent operation
of the Project, (ii) the Borrower shall cause title to all such goods to be obtained
free and clear of all encumbrances, and (iii) such goods shall not be sold or otherwise
disposed of without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 4.09. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adJequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely useable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿9
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in the territories of
the Borrower on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration of
this Agreement, or the payment of principal and service charges thereunder.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall afford all reas, n '-le opportunity for
accredited representatives of Sweden and the Association to visit any part of the
territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Swedish Credit and the
IDA Credit.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement contemplated by this Agreement
shall be made in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made such party's address specified below or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For Sweden:
(a)   insofar as Sveriges Riksbank acts as agent for Sweden
for purposes of this Agreement:
Sveriges Riksbank
Stockholm 2


﻿10
Cable address:
RIKSBANKEN
Stockholm
(b)   for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development
Authority
1525
Stockholm 1
Cable address:
SIDA
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the
Borrower, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement, and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original. All such counterparts shall collectively be but one
instrument.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as shall otherwise be agreed by the parties hereto,
this Agreement shall become effective on the earliest date upon which the Swedish
Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement shall both be in effect.


﻿11
(b) If the IDA Credit Agreement terminates for failure to become effective
in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall forthwith terminate and the
Association shall promptly notify the other parties of such termination.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereto
thereunder shall terminate (i) on the date upon which both the Swedish Credit
Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement shall have terminated or (ii) on June 30,
1992, whichever is the earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the Swedish Credit Agreement, or the
IDA Credit Agreement only, Sweden or the Association, as the case may be, shall
promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such notification, this
Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect only for the purpose of
implementation of the IDA Credit Agreement or the Swedish Credit Agreement
and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties hereunder,
subject to such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed among the parties
thereto or as shall be reasonably requested by Sweden or the Association for such
purposes.
Section 5.07. Unless otherwise notified to the Borrower and the Association
by Sweden, the Association shall represent Sweden in all matters relating to the
implementation of, including amendments to, this Agreement.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /is/ Curt Lidgard
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill         Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit, the allocation of amounts
of such proceeds to each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so
to be financed in each category:
Amount of the        Amount of the
Swedish Credit        IDA Credit
Allocated            Allocated              % of
(Expressed in        (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category         Swedish Kronor)      Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
I.   Silos and re-        775,000               720,000        100% of foreign
lated facili-                                             expenditures
ties (exclud-
ing jetty serv-
ing Chittagong
silo) - civil
works, mate-
rials and
equipment
II.  Jetty serving        180,000               168,000        70% of total
Chittagong                                                expenditures
silo - civil
works and
materials
III.  Consultants'        170,000               160,000        100% of foreign
services                                                  expenditures
IV.  Repayment of                             18,448,900.89
principal
amount with-
drawn under
Credit No. 83
V.   Repayment of       23,849,048.13
principal
amount with-
drawn under
Swedish Credit
dated February
10, 1966
VI.  Unallocated           25,951.87            203,099.11
TOTAL         SKr 25,000,000.00         $19,700,000.00


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from the territories, and in the currency, of any
member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Categories I, II and III in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage
*          shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Swedish Credit or of the IDA
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    (a)   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the
Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit set forth in the second column of the table
in paragraph I above:
(i)        if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall
decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and
of the IDA Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer
required therefor will be reallocated by the Association, by
increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit;
(ii)       if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the
table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall
be applied to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding
amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.


﻿14
(b)   Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the
table set out in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the IDA Credit Account and pay to the Association, under Category
IV, an amount equivalent to $18,448,900.89, in full repayment in advance of
maturity of the principal amount of Credit No. 83 withdrawn from the credit
account opened by the Association thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded
that, for the purpose of determining the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid by the Borrower, in accordance with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions,
this withdrawal shall be deemed to have been made as of the respective dates
of withdrawal under Credit No. 83.
6.    Sweden shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Swedish Credit Account and pay to the Sveriges Riksbank,
Stockholm, for the account of Sweden, under Category V, an amount of SKr
23,849,048.13, in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of the Swedish Credit dated February 10, 1966 withdrawn from the special account
opened by the Sveriges Riksbank thereunder.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the completion of the construction and placing in operation
of four reinforced concrete silos with a total capacity of about 232,000 tons and
the improvement of related facilities and services, and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A
Construction of and engineering services for foodgrain storage silos at
Chittagong, Narayanganj, Ashuganj and Santahar and related facilities, including
the modification of the jetty serving the Chittagong silo.
Part B
The carrying out of a study of policies, programs and facilities required for
improved grain handling, storage and marketing and expanded domestic grain
procurement, including a feasibility study of facilities suitable for inclusion in a
second-stage foodgrain storage and marketing project.
Part C
Establishment and implementation of a pest infestation control program,
including the training of pest control squads.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Goods and services in Categories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit, shall, wherever possible, be grouped
together in amounts sufficient to attract international competition. Whenever the
estimated cost of such goods and services, severally or as so grouped, exceeds the
equivalent of $100,000 in the case of civil works or $50,000 in the case of materials,
they shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972. All
other procurement shall be on the basis of local competitive procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    With respect to every contract or letter of intent for goods and services
in Categories I and II of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credits and involving
expenditures estimated to exceed the equivalent of $1.00,000 in the case of civil
works or $50,000 in the case of materials, the following procedure shall be
followed:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed, shall be submitted to the Association for
review and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to the issuance of
invitations to bid.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids and
the recommendations thereon of the Borrower's Ministry of Food and of the Project
consultants, as well as the proposals for awards, shall be submitted to the
Association for review and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to
making any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ materially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the
Association under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) above, the text of the proposed changes
shall be submitted to the Association for review and approval, which approval shall
be obtained prior to the execution of such contract or issuance of such letter
of intent.
(d)   Two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued and of any
contract executed under this paragraph shall be sent to the Association upon their
issuance or execution.


﻿17
3.    With respect to every contract or letter of intent for goods and services
in Categories I and 1I of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credits and involving
expenditures estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less in the case of
civil works or $50,000 or less in the case of materials, copies of the invitations
to bid, bid analyses and evaluations, as well as any other bid documents or relevant
information requested by the Association and two conformed copies of any such
contract or letter of intent, shall be furnished to the Association after the execution
thereof and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Accounts in respect of any such contract
or letter of intent.
4.    With respect to the consulting services to be provided in connection with
Part B   of the Project, the Borrower shall, except as the Borrower and the
Association may otherwise agree:
(a)   adhere to the procedures for selection of consultants set forth in the
publication entitled "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers"
dated September 1966, as revised in October 1971;
(b)   prior to inviting proposals, submit proposed terms of reference for
consulting services to the Association for review and approval;
(c)   prior to issuing any letter of intent or contract to consultants, submit
draft letter of intent or contract to the Association for review and approval; and
(d)   send two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued or any
contract executed to the Association upon their issuance or execution.


