CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Administration Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Administration Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿Abministration Agreemtent
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1966, between the
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called
Sweden) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASsoCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has by an agreement of even
date herewith agreed to make available to the Borrower a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($19,200,000)
to assist in financing a project for the establishment of
modern grain storage and handling facilities in the
Province of East Pakistan;
WHEREAS Sweden has by an agreement of even date
herewith agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in a principal amount of twenty-five million Swedish kronor
equivalent at present parity rates to four million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) for the purpose
aforesaid;
WHEREAS the Parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual
interest that withdrawals of certain of the proceeds of such
financing and certain other matters of common interest be
regulated as hereinafter provided;
Now THEREFORE, the Parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Except where the context otherwise
requires, the following terms have the following meanings
wherever used in this Agreement:


﻿4
The term "Lenders" means Sweden and the Association
collectively, and the term "Lender" means each of them,
severally.
The terms "Development Credit Agreement" and
"Swedish Agreement" mean the agreements referred to
in paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively of the preamble to
this Agreement as such agreementp may from time to time
be amended.
The term "the Agreements" means the Development
Credit Agreement and the Swedish Agreement, collectively,
and the term "Agreement" means each of them severally
as the same shall be modified from time to time by agree-
ment of the parties thereto.
The term "Project" means the project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such description may from
time to time be amended by agreement of the parties hereto.
The term "goods" means equipment, supplies, services
and immovable property which are required for the Project;
and wherever reference is made to the cost of any goods,
such cost shall, except where the context otherwise requires,
be deemed to include the cost of importing such good into
the territories of the Borrower.
The term "Proceeds" means the proceeds of the financing
provided for in the Agreements.
ARTICLE II
Use of Proceeds of Financing;
Applications for Withdrawal
SECTION 2.01. Except as the Parties hereto shall other-
wise agree, (i) the Proceeds shall be applied in accordance
with the provisions of the Agreements exclusively to financ-
ing the cost of goods required to carry out the Project, and
(ii) withdrawals of the Proceeds shall be made and
processed as provided in this Article.


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. The specific goods to be financed out of
the Proceeds and the methods and procedures for procure-
ment of such goods shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, subject to
modification by further agreement between them.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled, subject to
the provisions of this Agreement and of the Agreements,
to make withdrawals in amounts equal to such amounts as
shall have been paid for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed out of the Proceeds. Except as shall be otherwise
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of (a) expenditures prior
to March 1, 1965, or (b) expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) the territories of the Borrower or (c)
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (other than Switzerland) or for goods pro-
duced in (including services supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.04. Before making any agreement pursuant to
Section 2.02 or 2.03 hereof, the Association shall obtain the
concurrence of Sweden but the Borrower shall be under
no obligation to ascertain whether such concurrence has
been obtained and may rely upon the Association's agree-
ment as conclusive evidence thereof.
SECTION 2.05. When the Borrower shall desire to with-
draw any of the Proceeds it shall deliver to the Association
a written application in such form, and containing such
statements and agreements, as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Such applications, with the necessary docu-
mentation as provided in this Article hereinafter, shall,
except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.


﻿6
SECTION 2.06. Each such application shall constitute a
request to withdraw funds under each of the Agreements,
and the Association shall apportion the amount so requested
as follows: the equivalent of 80% to be withdrawn from
the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement, and the equivalent of 20% to be withdrawn
from the credit provided for under the Swedish Agreement.
The percentages specified in this Section may be varied
from time to time by agreement of the Lenders.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Associ-
ation such documents and other evidence in support of each
withdrawal application as the Association shall reasonably
request, whether before or after withdrawal shall have
been permitted of any of the Proceeds requested in the
application.
SECTION 2.08. Each withdrawal application and the
accompanying documents and other evidence must be
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association
that the Borrower is entitled to withdraw under the
Development Credit Agreement the amount of the Proceeds
applied for which has been apportioned thereto in accord-
ance with Section 2.06 hereof, and that the amount so to be
withdrawn is to be used only for the purposes specified
in this Article II.
SECTION 2.09. (a) When the Association has approved
disbursement under the Development Credit Agreement, it
shall promptly notify the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as
agent for Sweden, that it has received an application by
the Borrower to withdraw Proceeds, in an aggregate
amount to be set forth in such notice; the amount thereof
apportioned to each of the Agreements pursuant to Section
2.06 hereof ; and that the Association has approved disburse-
ment of its share of such aggregate amount. The notice
shall be in such form, and contain such other information,
including the currency or currencies (if any) in which the


﻿7
Borrower has indicated its desire that the respective dis-
bursements be made and to whom, or to the order of whom,
payment of the requested Proceeds is to be made, as the
Lenders shall from time to time determine.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice the Sveriges Riksbank,
acting as agent for Sweden, shall, subject to the provisions
of the Swedish Agreement (including any rights of
suspension or termination of withdrawals thereunder),
promptly disburse the amount specified in such notice as
having been apportioned pursuant to Section 2.06 hereof.
(c) The currency or currencies of any such disbursement
by a Lender, and the value thereof in terms of the currency
in which the amount so apportioned to its Agreement is
expressed, shall be determined in accordance with such
Agreement.
SECTION 2.10. It is the intention of the Parties that
disbursements of Proceeds will be made only in reimburse-
ment of expenditures for the reasonable cost of the goods.
However, in special circumstances, and upon the request
of the Borrower, if and to the extent that the Association
shall so agree, disbursements will be made to meet payments
for the reasonable cost of the goods.
ARTICLE III
Exercise of Functions by Association
SECTION 3.01. The Association shall exercise the same
care in the discharge of its functions under this Agreement
as it exercises in respect of the administration and manage-
ment of its own affairs.
ARTICLE IV
Exchange of Information and Consultation
SECTION 4.01. The Parties to this Agreement shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes thereof will be


﻿8
accomplished. To that end, the Parties shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of this Agree-
ment and each of them shall furnish to any of the others
such information as they shall reasonably request with
regard to the operation thereof.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly inform each
of the Lenders of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of this Agreement and shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Lenders
to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower and of
the Province for purposes related to this Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. It is the intention of the Lenders that
there be close collaboration between them on matters relat-
ing to the execution of the Project and on other matters of
common interest to them in the administration of the
Agreements. To that end, they propose, as hereinafter
provided, to keep each other currently informed of the
progress of the Project and to consult with each other
before taking important actions bearing on it. The Lenders
shall retain, however, their respective independent rights of
decision and action under the Agreements, including the
right of one Lender to permit continued disbursements
under its Agreement with the Borrower in case of suspen-
sion or cancellation under the other Agreement.
SECTION 4.04. Each Lender shall inform the other if any
event comes to its knowledge which materially affects the
progress of the Project or which threatens substantially
to impede it, and the Lenders shall consult with each other
concerning the action which each of them proposes to take
in respect thereof.
SECTION 4.05. Each Lender shall promptly inform the
other whenever it proposes (a) to modify materially its


﻿9
Agreement with the Borrower, (b) to suspend or terminate,
in whole or in part, withdrawals under such Agreement or
(c) to declare the indebtedness of the Borrower under such
Agreement to be due and payable in advance of the agreed
maturity thereof. In each such case, each Lender shall
afford the other all reasonable opportunity, in advance of
taking the proposed action, to exchange views with respect
thereto.
SECTION 4.06. Each Lender shall keep the other informed
of the progress of the Project, on the basis of the findings
of any inspections by its representatives.
SECTION 4.07. The Association shall transmit to Sweden
by cablegram or radiogram notice that the Development
Credit Agreement has come into force and effect.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 5.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or
made at such party's address specified below, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Rawalpindi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Economic
Rawalpindi


﻿10
For Sweden: (a) for the purposes of Section 2.09:
Sveriges Riksbank
P.O. Box 2119
Stockholm 2
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Riksbanken
Stockholm
(b) for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
P.O. Box 342
Stockholm 1
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Swedevelop
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will sign the applications provided for in
Article II of this Agreement or who will, on its behalf take
any other action or execute any other documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Borrower under
this Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.


﻿11
SECTION 5.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement may be taken or executed
on behalf of the Borrower by The Secretary to the Govern-
ment of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance (who is hereby
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of this Section) or by any person thereunto duly
authorized in writing by him. Any modification or ampli-
fication of the provisions of this Agreement may be agreed
to on behalf of the Borrower by written instrument executed
on behalf of the Borrower by its representative herein-
before designated or, any person thereunto duly authorized
by the representative; provided that, in the opinion of such
representative, such modification or amplification is reason-
able in the circumstances and will not substantially increase
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
The Lenders may accept the execution by such representa-
tive or other person of any such instrument as conclusive
evidence that in the opinion of such representative any
modification or amplification of the provisions of this
Agreement effected by such instrument is reasonable in
the circumstances and will not substantially increase the
obligations thereunder of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
All such   coniterparts shall collectively  be but one
instrument.
SECTION 5.05. Except as shall otherwise be agreed by the
Parties hereto, this Agruement shall become effective on
the earliest date upon which the Agreements shall be in
effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿12
names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
IsLAmic REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By S. M. SULAIMAN
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By G6RAN BUNDY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By GEORGE D. WOODS
President


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of the construction and operation of
five reinforced concrete silos with a total. capacity of about
315,000 tons and the improvement of related facilities and
services.
I. Engineering and Preliminaxy Works
(1) Drawing up of detailed designs, specifications and
contract documents for the construction of the grain
storage silos specified in part II of this Schedule;
(2) Acquisition of all rights in immovable property needed
for the construction and operation of said silos;
(3) Fill of the sites for said silos, construct embankments
and drainage works, and prepare sub-grade for road
and rail connection.
II. The Silos
(1) Location and approximate capacity:
Silo at Chittagong:      104,000 tons
Silo at Narayanganj:      51,000 tons
Silo at Ashunganj:        51,000 tons
Silo at Santahar:         26,000 tons
Silo at Chalna:           83,000 tons
(2) Equipment aid facilities.
(a) All silos will have facilites for receiving and unload-
ing grain in bulk and will be equipped for bagging and
out-loading of bagged grain. Also, all silos will have hopper
scales and truck scales, grain cleaner, temperature indicat-
ing system, dust collecting system, chemical protectant
spray and special fumigating bins, bagging scales and a


﻿14
bag conveyor system, connection for electric power supply,
water supply and sewage disposal systems, and key staff
housing.
(b) The facilities of each silo will include additional
items such as:
Silo at Chittagong:  a ship berth, a coaster berth and a
floating barge jetty, pneumatic ship-
unloading units, receiving and ship-
ping conveyors, grain drier, facilities
for boat loading of both bulk and
bagged grain;
Silo at Narayanganj: railway receiving and loading sta-
tion, jetties for stationary gantries
and a floating barge jetty, receiving
conveyors;
Silo at Ashunganj:  railway receiving and loading sta-
tion, jetties for stationary gantries
and a floating barge jetty, receiving
conveyors;
Silo at Santahar:   railway receiving and loading sta-
tion, receiving conveyors;
Silo at Chabna:     a ship berth, a barge berth and a
floating barge jetty, pneumatic ship-
unloading units, receiving and ship-
ping conveyors, grain drier, facilities
for river loading of both bulk and
bagged grain, diesel-electric genera-
tors and water storage tanks.
III. Improvement of Facilities and Operations
(1) Improvement of existing storage facilities and oper-
ations, including modification and repair of godowns
for adequate protection of bagged foodgrain, and im-
provement of facilities for re teiving, handling and
bagging of foodgrains at the major river-front
godowns.


﻿(2) Establishment of modern inventory controls including
the collection and analysis of essential data on a timely
and regular basis.
(3) Establishment and implementation of an adequate pro-
gram of sanitation and pest-infestation control, includ-
ing transport facilities, equipment and chemicals.
(4) Establishment of a program for training personnel in
silo management and operation, grain inventory con-
trol, sanitation and pest-infestation control and in
-Other technical skills necessary for the efficient oper-
ation of the Project, and establishment of a Training
Facility in East Pakistan.
(5) Establishment of a new organization under the direct
supervision of the Head of the Food Department and
at the appropriate level in the Food Department to
operate the silos and perform ancillary functions.
(6) Improvement of transport facilities for the orderly
movement of bulk grain, including adequate provision
of rail wagons and river transport vessels for grain
movement and modification of such wagons and vessels
for bulk hauling of grain.
IV. Consulting Services
Consulting services in connection with the construction
and operation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1971.
The date for completion of the silo at Chalna depends upon
the decision regarding the location of the proposed deep-
water port in East Pakistan.


