CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Project Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 83 PAK
Project Agreement
(Foodgrain Storage Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1966


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1966, between the
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (herein-
after called the Province) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to nine-
teen million two hundred thousand dollars ($19,200,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Province
agree to undertake certain obligations to the Association
as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set forth;
WHEREAS Sweden has by an agreement of even date
herewith agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit
in a principal amount of twenty-five million Swedish kronor
equivalent at present parity rates to four million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) to be used for the
Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower, Sweden, and the Association
have by an agreement of even date herewith made arrange-
ments for the processing of applications for withdrawal of
the proceeds of the financing to be provided by the Associ-
ation and Sweden, and for the regulation of other matters
of common interest connected with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the foregoing
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTIoN 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause the Project
to be carried out and operated by its Food Department
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound engineering and financial practices. The Project shall
be under the direction of a Project Manager with adequate
engineering and administrative qualifications.
(b) The Province shall make available, promptly as
needed, all sums and other resources required to carry
out the Project.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Swedish Credit shall be
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Swedish Agreement,
respectively, to financing the cost of goods required to
carry out the Project.
(d) In the carrying out of the Project, the Province shall
(i) employ or cause to be employed competent and experi-
enced consultants acceptable to the Association, to an
extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) cause the Project to be constructed by
one or more contractors acceptable to the Association
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿5
(e) The Province shall cause all works and facilities
included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
repaired in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices and shall cause all works and facilities not
included in the Project but necessary for the proper and
efficient operation thereof to be carried out and operated
and adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with
such practices.
(f) Upon request by the Association, the Province shall
promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associ-
ation the plans, specifications and work schedules for the
Project and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall request.
(g) The Province shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof), and to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the oper-
ations and financial condition of the Food Department
responsible for the construction or operation of the Project
or any part thereof ; shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods and any other
properties, equipment, operations, records and documents
relevant to the construction or operation of the Project or
any part thereof; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Food Department responsible for the construction or
operation of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Province and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish


﻿6
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance by the Province of its obligations
hereunder and the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Food Department responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(c) The Province shall promptly inform or cause the
Association to be informed of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by
the Province of its obligations under this Project Agree-
ment or which shall increase or threaten to increase
materially the estimated cost of the Project.
(d) The Province shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of its territory for purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Province shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
(b) Without limiting the geiierality of the foregoing, the
Province undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financedl out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Province to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 2.04. Except as shall otherwise be agreed by
the Province and the Association, the Province shall cause
all goods purchased in whole or in part with the proceeds of


﻿7
the Credit to be used exclusively in the territories of the
Borrower for the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. Except in the normal course of business,
goods purchased or paid for out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swedish Credit shall not be sold or otherwise
disposed of without the prior consent of the Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. (a) This Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(h) If the Association shall terminate the Development
Credit Agreement pursunt to Section 6.03 thereof, the
Assoeiation shall promptly notify the Province and upon
,if givil$( of 4uch notice, this Project Agreement and all
1 iton  of the parties hereunder shall forthwith cease
:. 1)02. This Project Agreement shall terminate
4$J1li%ations of the parties hereunder shall cease and
.A - 9i) on the (late when the Development Credit
Vr  'n   t -w hall teriniate in accordance with its terms; or
t4 t :2a when the nlit ire amount of the Credit remaining
mmwithdrawn from    the Credit Account shall have been
cancelled pursulnt to 8ection 1.01 (f) of the Development
Credit A(reement; or (iii) 20 years after the date of this
Project Areenient, whichever shall be earliest.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made


﻿8
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
(a) For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca, East Pakistan
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
East Pakistan
Dacca
(b) For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary
to the Government of East Pakistan or such other person
or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Associ-
ation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any action


﻿9
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by the Province pursuant to any of the pro-
visions of this Project Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective names
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By S. M. SVLAIMAN
Authorized -Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN
By   ('F)RGE D. WODS
President


