Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2324 
Operation Name 
Punjab Education Development Policy Credit - III 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (60%);Sub-national government administration 
(40%) 
Project ID 
P097636  
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB 
CIVIL SECRETARIAT, LAHORE 
Tel: 92-42-9210039 
Fax: 92-42-9210042 
Date PID Prepared 
April 12, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 21, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
May 30, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background  
Pakistan’s education indicators compare poorly with those of other countries of similar economic standing.  
Therefore, improving human development outcomes is a key priority for Pakistan, and forms a core objective 
of the national Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which recognizes that the responsibility for service 
delivery implementation rests with the districts.  Punjab is leading the other provinces in its effort to fully 
implement the national decentralization initiative, using education as the leading sector.  Education outcomes 
in Punjab are marginally higher than the Pakistan average.  The main challenges confronting education sector 
service delivery and performance in Punjab like in the rest of Pakistan include poor quality of education as 
demonstrated by poor learning outcomes
,
weak governance and public sector management, and inequitable 
and inadequate access to education.  Although public sector enrollments have recently shown significant 
increases, primary net enrollment rates show that more than 40% of children are still not in school in Punjab, 
and completion of primary and access to higher education are still of concern.       
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The Punjab Education Development Policy Credit (PEDPC-III) would be the last of a series of three 
development policy Credits to support the Government of Punjab’s three year education sector reform 
program (PESRP) to enhance access, improve quality of education, and improve gender parity in Punjab.  
The purpose of this third development policy Credit is to provide budget support for the Province of Punjab, 
which is implementing a wide-ranging sector reform agenda backed by fiscal and fiduciary reforms.  The 
program would contribute to helping Punjab progress toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
related to poverty reduction, achieving gender parity and universal primary enrollment.  Improvements in 
education outcomes in Punjab, the largest province of Pakistan, have a countrywide impact, and could 
improve Pakistan’s chances of moving towards achievement of the MDS.  Initial success in Punjab is already 
motivating other provinces to follow a similar path for education reforms.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Bank is helping Punjab to bring about improvements in education outcomes by supporting system-wide 
reforms.  Bank’s continued involvement through the DPC series has enabled Punjab’s education reform 
efforts to remain on track, and is providing incentive for the Province to continue to implement these reforms 
through a Second Phase that is under preparation and would be supported by a follow-on DPC series by the 
Bank.  Bank budget support has been instrumental in supporting the Government of Punjab’s MTBF and the 
underlying strategy for promoting fiscal sustainability.
 
Page  2
4. Financing 
Source: ($m) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 700 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
800 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The reforms are being implemented by the provincial government and District Governments through annual 
Terms of Partnership agreements.  The Provincial Education Reforms Steering Committee headed by the 
Chief Secretary and reporting to the Chief Minister provides high level oversight to guide the reforms.  The 
Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit of the Education Department is responsible for overseeing 
implementation of key reform inputs and for monitoring through the well-established management 
information system. 
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
At the start of the reforms, the Program was considered a high-benefit, high-risk program but the positive 
impact that is happening sooner than expected shows a reduction in risk and higher benefits than anticipated.  
The main benefits of the Program are resulting from the improvements in public sector enrolments, reduction 
in gender disparities, and changes in sector management and monitoring.  If the Program maintains its 
performance, it would contribute to helping the country move towards the MDGs relating to universal 
primary enrollment and closing the gender gap.   
 
There are some risks, however.  The rapid expansion in public sector enrolments can pose a major risk if 
quality improvements do not keep pace with enrolment increases.  There is also an inherent political risk 
relating to continued ownership of the program by the district governments and in any changes in provincial 
leadership.  Weak institutional and technical capacity to implement and monitor the program poses another 
risk.   Finally, there is a risk related to macroeconomic management. Although the policy stance of the 
government has remained appropriate, continued high inflation and external trade deficit indicate significant 
excess liquidity in the economy require resolute actions to contain money supply.
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Policies and programs supported by PEDPC III are pro-poor and aim at reducing gender inequities.  The 
program seeks to provide access to schooling for poor and underserved areas, with emphasis on girls.  The 
program is environmentally benign, and will not have significant effects on the environment, natural 
resources, or forests. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Tahseen Sayed 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 5722+166 
Fax: 92-51-2822396 
Email: Tsayed@worldbank.org 
Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Page  3
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
