Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4176 - PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Punjab Education Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4176 - PAK 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2006, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (
“Recipient”), and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions 
which Recipient’s Province of Punjab (“Punjab”) has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in the Schedule to the Program Agreement, and (b) Punjab’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 69,600,000) 
(“Credit”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are September 15 and March 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient, the Association, and Punjab shall from time to time, at the 
request of any party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association and 
Punjab on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the 
Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, Economic Affairs Division. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Khalid Saeed 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ John W. Wall 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken under the Program are 
set forth in the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
 
Section II. 
Availability of Credit Proceeds
A. General 
 
1.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall make the rupee equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit 
available to Punj
ab in accordance with the Recipient’s on-lending policy. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Credit Amounts.
 The Credit shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.   
 
C. 
Deposits of Credit Proceeds
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account”).  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause Punjab to open, prior to the Recipient furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a deposit account in 
Rupees (“Local Currency Deposit Account”).   
 
3. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Credit into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall deposit an 
equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
D. Audit.
 Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  6
-
5
-
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4)
 months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E.  
Excluded  Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. Closing 
Date. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2016 to and including 
March 15, 2026 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2026 to and including 
March 15, 2041 
2.5% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Account No. 4” means the Account No. 4 of the District Governments. 
 
2. 
“Continuous Professional Development Framework” means the teachers’ 
Continuous Professional Development Framework referred to in paragraph 8 of the 
Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consolidated Fund Account” means the Consolidated Fund Account 
 
No. 1 (Non-Food) of the Government of Punjab. 
 
4. 
“DAC” means the Education Department’s Departmental Accounts Committee. 
 
5. 
“District Government” means a District Government as defined in the Punjab 
Local Government Ordinance (Ordinance No. XIII of 2001)
 
(PLGO), as may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
6. 
“Education Department” means Punjab’s Education Department. 
 
7. 
“Examination Commission” means the Examination Commission as constituted 
by Punjab, under Notification Number SO (Schools)(PEC) 1-1/2006, and referred to in 
paragraph 9 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Page  9
-
8
-
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
9. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and of Punjab beginning on 
July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next following calendar year. 
 
10. 
“Foreign Currency Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of  
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Financings,” dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth 
in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
12. 
“Local Currency Account” means the account referred to in Part C.2 of Section II 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“PESRP” means the Punjab Education Sector Reform Program. 
 
14. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable improvement in education and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 28, 2006, from the Recipient to the Association, 
transmitting a letter from Punjab dated April 14, 2006, declaring the Punjab’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
15. “Program
 
Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and Punjab 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Program Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Punjab” means the Recipient’s Province of Punjab. 
 
17. 
“Punjab Education Foundation” means the foundation established under the 
Punjab Education Foundation Act (Act No. XII of 2004), or successors thereto. 
 
18. 
“Rupees” or “Rs” means the currency of the Recipient.  
 
19. 
 “TOP Agreements” means the agreements executed between the Education 
Department, on the one hand, and the District Governments, on the other hand, setting 
out, among other things: (i) various matters relating to the implementation of the Program 
by the District Governments; (ii) arrangements to ensure that the District Governments 
maintain appropriate budgetary allocations for the education sector in Fiscal Year 06;  
Page  11
-
10
-
(iii) the respective roles and responsibilities of the Government of Punjab and the District 
Governments for Program monitoring and implementation; and (iv) annual targets to be 
achieved by the District Governments.   
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
Page  12
-
11
-
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is 
put in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are
 deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
