Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/21/2010 
Report No.:  AC4888
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Gambia, The 
Project ID:  P119892 
Project Name:  Gambia Emergency Agriculture Production Project 
Task Team Leader:  Manievel Sene 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 2, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: January 20, 2010 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (100%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Global Food Crisis Response Program 
7.50
7.50 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
To improve access to agricultural inputs, equipment and post-harvest storage capacity by 
targeted farmers in nine vulnerable districts.   
 
3. Project Description 
Three Components:  
 
Component A: Provision of agricultural inputs and machinery, will support the purchase 
of 3,000 tons of fertilizer and 525 tons of seed for distribution to 20,000 farmers to 
enhance domestic food production capacity. In addition it will support the procurement of 
667 pieces of machinery for distribution to 667 women's farmer groups to enhance labor 
productivity in bas-fonds rice cultivation.  
 
Component B: Rehabilitation of seed multiplication and post-harvest storage 
infrastructure is aimed at (i) increasing the availability of improved seed through the 
rehabilitation of three seed multiplication centers and (ii) increasing the capacity and 
quality of post-harvest cereal storage through the rehabilitation of 35 existing village-
Page  2
level facilities. These activities are expected to increase annual seed production capacity 
from 30 tons to 90 tons and storage capacity from zero to 350 tons.  
 
Component C: Support for project coordination and monitoring and evaluation, will 
provide incremental funding to the PCU for coordination, communications, and 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, as the operation will be implemented by the 
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of The Gambia - Africa Emergency Locust Project 
(GM-AELP).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project activities will focus on the nine Districts identified as most vulnerable rural 
districts in the Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Brikama (Foni Bintang, Foni 
Kansala, Foni Bondali), Mansakonko (Jarra West), Kerewan (Lower Nuimi, Upper 
Nuimi), Janjanbureh (Niamina East), Basse (Wulli, Sandu). The estimated total 
population of all these districts amounts to 230,000. Cereals represent an average 52 
percent of the cultivated area. About 20,000 farmers will benefit from the assistance of 
the project.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Demba Balde (AFTCS) 
Mr Denis Jean-Jacques Jordy (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This project has been rated as a Category B, because the potential adverse impacts on 
human populations or environmentally important areas are assessed as being low. The 
proposed intervention will include: (i) supply of fertilizers and implementing 
machineries,(ii)rehabilitation of existing community storage facilities and, (iii) 
installation of supplemental irrigation to enhance year round production of certified seed. 
No pesticides will be procured. Despite the fact that the project will rehabilitate boreholes 
Page  3
for complementary irrigation, OP/BP 7.50 is not triggered as boreholes are not tapping 
transboundary aquifer. Accordingly, OP/BP 4.01 is triggered by the project. An 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) will be prepared, with 
appropriate elements incorporated into the Project Implementation Manual.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The environmental impacts will be local and very limited, and specific mitigation 
measures will be designed in the ESMF.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
No pesticide will be procured by the project and the project will exclude all activities 
requiring resettlement. The ESMF should allow these guidelines to be updated and new 
ones added based on project implementation experience.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Government has experience in planning and implementing safeguard measures. The 
PCU has already prepared a Pest Management Plan (PMP) in October 2004 and an 
Environmental Assessment (EA) in September 2005 for GM-AELP in 2004.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI), Agricultural Pest Management Unit 
(APMU), National Environment Agency (NEA), Ministry of Health, Quest Teams, 
Farmer brigades and the Project Coordination Unit are among key stakeholders for the 
consultation and disclosure process. Through the GM-AELP, Trainings have been 
provided to all stakeholders in order to strengthen their capacities on safeguard, 
especially on environmental and pest management. The proposed operation will 
complement trainings with very specific areas to be described in the ESMF on which 
there are needs for a full mitigation of potential of its activities. As authorized under 
OP/BP 8.00, the ESMF will be publicly disclosed in The Gambia and at World Bank 
Infoshop within a period of 60 days after the effectiveness of the project.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/26/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/19/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/26/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Page  4
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
Yes 
Page  5
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Manievel Sene 
11/17/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Denis Jean-Jacques Jordy 
11/17/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Demba Balde 
11/18/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
11/30/2009 
Comments:   
