                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2420



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-96106)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 5.30 MILLION
                       (US$ 7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA

                                     FOR AN

            EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT



                                   June 30, 2012




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region




                                          i
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 2012)

                   Currency Unit = Gambia Dalasi
                       GMD1.00 = US$ 0.034
                       US$ 1.00 = 29.00GMD

                          FISCAL YEAR


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AES       Agricultural Engineering Services
AfDB      Africa Development Bank
CAP       Country Action Plan
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU        European Union
EU-TF     European Union Food Crisis Response Facility Trust Fund
FM        Financial Management
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEAPP     Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project
GM-AELP   Gambia Africa Emergency Locust Project
GoTG      Government of The Gambia
GTS       Gambia Television Services
IASFP     Inter-Agency Assessment of Soaring Food Prices
IFAD      International Federation of Agricultural Development
ISFP      Initiative on Soaring Food Prices
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
JAS       Joint Assistance Strategy
LRR       Lower River Region
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MoA       Ministry of Agriculture
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NAO       National Audit Office
NARI      National Agricultural Research Institute
NBR       North Bank Region
NEA       National Environmental Agency
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPC       National Planning Commission
NPK       Nitrogen, Phosphorus, and Potassium
O& M      Operation and Maintenance
PPS       Plant Protection Services

                                 ii
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
PSRP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RDA        Regional Director of Agriculture
SGA        Seed Grower Association
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VDC        Village Development Committee
WAAPP      West African Agricultural Production Program
WB         The World Bank
WCR        West Coast Region
WFP        World Food Program




        Vice President:            Makhtar Diop
        Country Director:          Vera Songwe
        Sector Manager:            Martien van Nieuwkoop
        Project Team Leader:       Jean-Phillip Tre
        ICR Team Leader:           Kadir Osman Gyasi




                                  iii
                                        THE GAMBIA
                            Emergency Agricultural Production Project




                                                      CONTENTS


A. Basic Information ...................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 32
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 43




                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Gambia Emergency
Country:               Gambia, The              Project Name:             Agriculture Production
                                                                          Project
Project ID:            P119892                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-96106
ICR Date:              08/25/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF THE
Lending Instrument:    ERL                      Grantee:
                                                                          GAMBIA
Original Total
                       USD 7.51M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.93M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 6.52M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process               Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/25/2010    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   08/31/2011        02/29/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                                 100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                            100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Vera Songwe                          Habib M. Fetini
Sector Manager:            Martien Van Nieuwkoop                Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Philippe Tre                    Manievel Sene
ICR Team Leader:           Kadir Osman Gyasi
ICR Primary Author:        Kadir Osman Gyasi
                           Kofi Amponsah

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve access to agricultural inputs and equipment, as well as seed and storage capacity
by targeted farmers in nine vulnerable districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A




                                               vi
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                              documents)        Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of famers that received improved early millet and rice seeds.
Value
quantitative or   0                        20,000                             76,981
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
                  76,981 farmers received early millet and rice seeds due to expansion of
Comments
                  coverage from 479 to 600 villages. 20,701 were indirect beneficiaries through
(incl. %
                  family members and National Women Council. About 60% of the total
achievement)
                  beneficiaries are women.
                  Number of farmers that received recommended doses of NPK and urea
Indicator 2 :
                  fertilizer.
Value
quantitative or   0                        20,000                             56,280
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               01/31/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  56,280 farmers received the recommended doses of NPK and urea early millet
(incl. %
                  and rice fields. About 60% of the beneficiaries are women.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of organized farmer groups that receive farm machinery.
Value
quantitative or   0                        667                                870
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                01/31/2010                       12/31/2011
Comments          Target exceeded due to procurement and distribution of additional machinery
(incl. %          and equipment such as rice and coarse grain milling machines, multi-crop
achievement)      threshers, knap sack sprayers and motorized sprayers.
Indicator 4 :     Increase in post-harvest storage capacity (tons).
Value
quantitative or   0                        350                                550
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                 01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments          Village level grain and seed post-harvest storage capacity in targeted districts
(incl. %          increased by 200 tons due to the fact that 10 out of the 23 village seed stores
achievement)      built/rehabilitated had their capacity increase to accommodate current demands.
Indicator 5 :     Total number of direct beneficiaries.
Value
quantitative or   0                        30,000                             56,280
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               01/31/2010                           12/31/2011
Comments          Over 56,280 farmers directly benefited from different interventions. Additional
(incl. %          20,701 were indirect beneficiaries, bringing total to 76,981. About 60% of the
achievement)      beneficiaries are women.


                                              vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                            Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Tons of seed procured and distributed to farmers.
Value
(quantitative     0                          525                                 525
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                 01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
                  350 tons - upland rice varieties, 150 tons- lowland rice varieties and 25 tons of
(incl. %
                  early millet seeds procured and distributed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Tons of fertilizer procured and distributed to farmers
Value
(quantitative     0                          3000                                3000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                 01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
                  1500 tons of NPK - (30,000 50kg bags) and 1500 tons of Urea - (30,000 50kg
(incl. %
                  bags) fertilizer procured and distributed to farmers.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of pieces of farm machinery procured and distributed to farmers
Value
(quantitative     0                          667                                 1,668
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                   01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
                  1,668 farm implements, machinery and equipment (367 seeder, 367 sine hoes,
Comments
                  367 threshers, 300 power tillers, 32 milling machines (22 for rice, 10 for coos), 5
(incl. %
                  multi crop threshers, 200 knapsack sprayers, 30 motorized sprayers) distributed
achievement)
                  to farmer groups.
                  35 storage facilities fully rehabilitated and available to farmers for storage of
Indicator 4 :
                  seed and grain.
Value
(quantitative     0                          35                                  23
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                 01/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
                  Target not met; there was no responsive bidder for one of the lots, and there was
(incl. %
                  not enough time to re-launch the procurement process.
achievement)
                  Three (3) seed multiplication centers are fully rehabilitated to produce seed for
Indicator 5 :
                  farmers.
Value
(quantitative     0                          3                                   3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               01/31/2010                         02/29/2012
Comments          All the three (Chamen, Sapu, and Giroba) seed multiplication centers have been
(incl. %          rehabilitated.

                                                   viii
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Seed production capacity increased from 30 to 90 tons.
Value
(quantitative     30                           90                                 90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                   01/31/2010                         02/29/2012
Comments
                  All required facilities are in place and 40 ha of arable land in the three centers are
(incl. %
                  expected to produce more than 90 tons of seeds.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     04/30/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     07/30/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       1.17
  3     03/23/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       4.72
  4     11/19/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       5.09


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                    ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Gambia is one of the poorest countries in the world that face many economic
challenges and struggle with high levels of poverty and household food insecurity.
Indeed, some 58% of The Gambian population lived in poverty, with the majority living
in the rural areas, and relying heavily on agriculture for their livelihood. The agricultural
sector employed over 68% of the total workforce in The Gambia. It accounted for about
33% of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) making it the second largest sector
of the economy. Major agricultural exports were groundnuts, which constituted about
60% of domestic exports. Majority (55%) of rural households engaged in groundnut
production.

2.      As in other Sahaelian countries, the food security situation in The Gambia is
severely and regularly affected by erratic climatic conditions. Since 2005 total food grain
production has declined by about 35%. Indeed, the agricultural sector had witnessed a
decade of poor performance. Primary cereal deficits increased from 65,000 metric tons
to 150,000 metric tons between 2004 and 2007. Cereal imports account for between 50%
and 60% of domestic consumption needs, and the average Gambian household spends
about 60% of its income on food. The poor performance of the agricultural sector has
largely been attributed to the 2002 locust invasion coupled with several years of adverse
climatic conditions and lack of adequate delivery mechanisms that would ensure constant
provision of agricultural inputs (e.g. seed, fertilizer, etc.), and other agricultural goods
and services needed by farmers and rural enterprises. The rising food and fuel prices,
that began to have a worldwide effect in 2007, pushed inflation in the country to 6% by
2008. It was estimated that between October 2007 and 2008 the retail prices of millet and
maize had increased by 10% and 27% respectively, and the prices of imported rice
between 16% and 27%. The increases in prices did not affect only the urban populations,
but also the rural dwellers who had been severely hit by the 2004 locust invasion and a
series of droughts that affected both cereal and cash crop (groundnut) production. That
situation brought untold sufferings on the majority of households, who faced serious
hardships in terms of household food security.

3.      To address this situation, the Government of The Gambia (GoTG) put in place a
variety of measures, including the removal of the sales tax on rice imports, negotiations
with traders for a temporary ceiling on the price of a 50kg sack of imported rice, and
allowing for a gradual rise in fuel pump prices in response to the increase in petroleum
prices. It also established a National Task Force (NTF) for food security which is a
technical working group coordinated by the Ministry of Agriculture and comprising all
key stakeholders. The GoTG requested an Inter-agency Assessment of Soaring Food
Prices (IASFP) mission, comprising of staff of Food and Agriculture Organizations
(FAO), the World Bank, the World Food Program (WFP), and the International Fund for




                                             1
Agricultural Development (IFAD), which was carried out between July and August 2008.
The main output of the mission was a Country Action Plan (CAP) 1 , developed in
collaboration with the NTF, for short, medium and long term measures to (i) support
agricultural production and productivity; (ii) social safety nets to support food security,
and (iii) improving the enabling environment for promoting policy and market access.
The proposed priority activities for immediate action included: provision of production
inputs for the 2009 cropping season; rehabilitation of seed and grain stores; provision of
post-harvest processing equipment, provision of inputs for poultry production and
stocking of cereal banks.

4.     To implement the priority recommendations of the IASFP, the GoTG requested
support from its technical and financial partners. The World Bank’s support to the
GoTG’s response to the food crisis in The Gambia under the European Union Food Crisis
Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund (EU-TF)) was in support of the National Food
Security Strategy and Country Action Plan (CAP) based on the recommendations of the
IASFP mission, and complementary to, and coordinated with other donor interventions.
Given the structural nature of the constraints facing The Gambian agriculture and the
emergency nature of this intervention, The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production
Project (GEAPP) focused on restoring the means of production of the most affected
households, particularly by providing key inputs (starter packs), and equipment to
smallholders in order to stimulate an immediate supply response during the 2010
cropping season. Because of the structural issues bedeviling the country’s agriculture,
and the risk of not achieving increase in food production, a strategic choice was made to
focus objectives of the project on access to inputs rather than production, and to target
only two commodities (rice and early millet) in 9 out of 35 districts.

5.      Largely, the activities undertaken under the project were intended to support the
Government’s objective to enhance domestic food production in the short-, medium- and
long-terms so as to ensure food security, by: (i) supporting the rebuilding and restoration
of physical assets; (ii) restoring means of production and economic activities; and (iii)
supporting measures to mitigate or avert potential effects of imminent emergencies or
future emergencies.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.       The development objective of The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production
Project was to improve access to agricultural inputs, equipment and post-harvest storage
capacity by targeting farmers in nine vulnerable districts. Specifically, the project aimed
at (i) providing subsidized improved seeds, fertilizer and farm machinery to smallholder


1
 Republic of The Gambia, Initiative on Souring Food Prices (ISFP), Final Report
Situation Assessment and Country Action Plan. November 2008.




                                            2
farmers and farmer groups, (ii) improving post-harvest storage capacity through the
rehabilitation of village-level grain and seed storage facilities, and (iii) laying the
foundation for a sustainable farmer-based seed multiplication system through the
rehabilitation of three seed multiplication centers. The agreed performance indicators
were as follows.


7.        By the end of project:


         20,000 farmers have received improved millet and rice seeds;
         20,000 farmers have received recommended doses of NPK and urea fertilizer;
         667 organized famer groups have received farm machinery (benefiting a total of
          about 10,000 farmers);
         Village level grain and seed storage capacity in targeted districts have increased
          by 350 tons; and
         Total number of direct beneficiaries has reached 30,000.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.        The PDO and key performance indicators were not revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The project targeted nine districts2, with a total population of 238,000 people,
identified as the most vulnerable districts in The Gambia. The beneficiary districts were
selected on the basis of the 2008 WFP report as most vulnerable in terms of food security
based on the following factors: rainfall frequency; soil degradation; and the lingering
impact of the 1980’s drought; the impact of the 2006 dry spell; the impact of the locust
invasion, and the impact of the food crisis. Individual beneficiaries targeted by the project
included farmers and farmer groups at village and community levels. These groups were
identified based on need, with specific consideration to gender. In particular, support for
seed, fertilizer, and farm equipment was directed at female farmers with less than 0.25
hectares of land, while poor farmers with less than 0.5 hectares of land were targeted for
the production of millet. The project’s investment helped the target beneficiaries to
expand their areas of cultivation and to increase their outputs. The project also supported
Village Development Committees (VDCs), in the form of training in store and product
management, to build the capacity of the user groups in sustainable management of the
community infrastructure, and in addition, make them functional in steering the affairs of
farmers and farmer groups in the communities.


2
  The number of districts increased to 10 districts as a result of cost savings, but also because many more beneficiaries
received less than the recommended doses of the inputs.


                                                            3
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.   The project had three components: (i) Provision of agricultural inputs and
equipment; (ii) Rehabilitation of post-harvest and seed multiplication infrastructure; (iii)
Support for project coordination, and monitoring and evaluation.

Component 1: Provision of agricultural inputs and equipment (US$4.1million)

11.      The objective of this component was to increase access to improved seed,
fertilizer and tillage equipment. To this end, the component was to support the purchase
of 3,000 tons of fertilizer and 525 tons of seed for distribution to 20,000 millet and rice
farmers to increase domestic food production capacity. The component was also to
support the procurement of about 667 pieces of farm machinery (power tillers, threshers,
seeders, and sine-hoes) for distribution to 667 farmer groups to enhance labor
productivity. This support was to cover approximately 10,000 hectares of cereal crops
(5,000 hectares of millet and 5,000 hectares of rice), which was expected to generate -
under favorable climatic conditions - an additional 6,500 tons of cereals (1,500 tons of
millet and 5,000 tons of rice). In addition, the component sought to provide training and
extension services to beneficiaries on the proper use of the inputs. In addition, the project
was to support a communication campaign and sensitization activities to underscore the
emergency and one time nature of the subsidized inputs intended to kick-start production
and fill granaries in vulnerable areas.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of seed multiplication and post-harvest infrastructure
(US$1.7 million)

12.     The objective of this component was to (i) increase the availability of improved
seed through the rehabilitation of three seed multiplication centers, and (ii) increase the
capacity and quality of post-harvest cereal storage through the rehabilitation of 35
existing village-level facilities. These activities were expected to increase annual seed
production capacity from 30 tons to 90 tons, and storage capacity to 350 tons. The
component was to support the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure in three seed
multiplication centers located in Sapu, Chamen and Jah Kundah, procurement and
installation of supplemental irrigation and equipment to increase year-round production
of certified seed, including the supply of variable inputs (base seed and fertilizer) needed
to initiate seed multiplication in year two of the project. Also, the component was to
support the rehabilitation of 35 out of 250 village-level storage facilities to minimize
post-harvest losses (then estimated at nearly 30 percent of production) in the nine most
vulnerable districts. Besides, it was to provide training on storage techniques through the
National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) and the Plant Protective Service (PPS)
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA).




                                             4
Component 3: Support for project coordination and monitoring and evaluation
(US$1.4 million)

13.     The objective of this component was to support the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to enable it carry out its coordination, communication, and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) functions. To this end, the component was to strengthen the capacity
of the PCU to enable it to adequately monitor project activities, including support to field
staff and implementing partners through provision of fuel, office supplies, travel
allowances, etc.  

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.     The project was extended twice. Firstly, as at August 2011, the project had made
significant progress toward the achievement of the PDO, and the PCU had performed
satisfactorily. Procurement and distribution of input (seeds and fertilizer) had been
successfully accomplished under component one (1). However, implementation of
component 2 activities was delayed. In response to this situation, the GoTG requested a
six-month extension to provide it with adequate time to complete all project activities,
including the rehabilitation of the targeted 35 village seed storage facilities and 3 seed
multiplication centers envisaged in the project. The Bank approved the request in June
2011 and the project was extended with a new closing date of December 31, 2011.

15.     Secondly, as at December 2011, major construction works had been undertaken
under Component 2. But during a joint supervision mission, in November 2011,
additional works and omissions/variations at construction sites in the three seed
multiplication centers as well as the village seed stores were identified. These additional
works included rehabilitation of female and male hostels, restrooms, additional fencing,
guest house and junior staff quarters in the three seed multiplication centers, and the -
rehabilitation of two dilapidated stores, and aprons around some stores. To ensure
successful completion of these activities, the contracts of two construction firms were
amended to cover the additional works required. The associated additional costs
amounted to about 27% of the original contract amount. The project was subsequently
extended for additional two months to the end of February 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     The project was prepared as an emergency operation aimed at combating the food
shortage crises that hit The Gambia in 2008. The preparation was very rapid: using
emergency procedures it took just about one month to prepare and obtain approval for the
project. The operation benefitted immensely from the GFRP framework document and

                                             5
the step-by-step procedures for GFRP operations financed under the European Union
Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility. The project design reflects the Bank’s overall
experience in implementing rural development and agricultural projects, and lessons
learned in previous projects, particularly the African Emergency Locust Project (AELP),
which focused on restoring the agricultural production capacity of 230 villages affected
by the 2004-2005 desert locust invasion and rehabilitation of infrastructure.

17.     The project design also benefited significantly from the comprehensive analysis
of the food crisis situation in The Gambia by the Inter-Agency Assessment on Soaring
Food Prices (IASFP) mission in 2008. The mission assessed food security and
vulnerability situation in rural areas, including the most vulnerable districts of the
country, and examined the effectiveness of household and community coping strategies
as well as ongoing project initiatives. The intervention was therefore found congruent
with the National Food Security Strategy and the Country Action Plan, which was largely
derived from the recommendations of the IASFP mission. Accordingly, the design sought
to ensure that the response was consistent with the government’s short-, medium-, and
long-term measures to improve food security and mitigate the impact of food crisis on the
population. It therefore had a simple and straightforward objective of restoring the
production capacity of the affected communities.

18.      The design was forward looking as it incorporated the establishment and
revamping of three seed multiplication centers, including the village seed storage
facilities. This was a prudent decision because the rehabilitation of the country’s seed
system can have a longer-term impact on the population by assuring future availability of
seed and improved resilience of the country to cope with potential future crisis.
Moreover, given the numerous structural constraints facing agriculture in The Gambia,
and since as an emergency operation, the project cannot be expected to address the
broader agricultural development agenda, the team thought it wise to focus the project
objectives on access to inputs rather than production.

19.     The team assessed the risks related to the implementation of the project given
both its emergency nature and extra short-term course (eighteen months), and the fact that
procurement activities were very critical for the 2010 growing season. Based on this
assessment, a clear and comprehensive implementation action plan was prepared for the
Project. The preparation team also identified other potential risks, such as elite capture
and weak capacity of the agricultural extension system, and factored into the design
appropriate mitigation measures. For example, the risk of elite capture was mitigated by
putting in place social accountability mechanisms including the establishment of
implementation and monitoring roles for organized farmer groups and village
development committees. Also incorporated in the design was involvement of NGOs,
both within the district and national level task forces, in the distribution of inputs to
ensure transparency and efficiency.

20.    Project preparation was participatory and was designed in broad consultation with
key stakeholders. The team consulted extensively and ensured coordination among
partners particularly the European Union, the UN Agencies (including, WFP, FAO,

                                            6
IFAD, and UNDP) and ActionAid, as well as the representatives of relevant government
ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), Ministry of Finance (MoF), and
National Planning Commission (NPC), to ensure that this intervention was prepared in
conformity with the country action plan and the joint UN response, and its
implementation coordinated with on-going interventions of development partners. The
preparation team received strong management support and made good use of cross-
sectoral collaboration.
2.2 Implementation

21.    The project was approved on December 30, 2009 and was to be implemented over
a period of 18 months after having been signed on March 1, 2010 to become effective
immediately. Project implementation was entrusted to an on-going IDA funded Africa
Emergency Locust Project (GM-AELP), which by virtue of its past activities had gained
experience in the implementation of emergency projects. There was therefore little time
required for mobilization. Project implementation thus started swiftly and all dated
covenants were implemented in good time to allow for implementation to proceed. To
urgently get farm inputs to farmers in readiness for the approaching 2010 cropping
season, a taskforce was put in place to prepare and implement a seed multiplication plan,
which accomplished its task within one month of project effectiveness 3 . This plan
became the project’s guide for the distribution of inputs to the beneficiaries. Table 1
presents a summary of input distribution plan by district.

Table 1: Summary of GEAPP Inputs Distribution Plan
                                                                Upland     Lowland    NPK
                         No. of                  Early Millet   Rice       Rice       (in        UREA
    No.     District     Villages   Population   (in kg)        (in kg)    (in kg)    Bags)      (in Bags)
    1.      FONI
            BINTANG      41         12,145       -              24,040     12,300     1,030      1030
    2.      FONI
            KANSALA      38         8,550        -              16,930     6,589      725        725
    3.      FONI
            BONDALI      27         4,807        4,807          8,800      3,600      411        411
    4.      JARRA WEST   21         16,099       2,390          32,000     18,800     1,366      1366
    5.      LOWER
            NIUMI        72         42,172       8,400          38,800     36,000     3,365      3365
    6.      UPPER
            NIUMI        57         24,959       4,800          35,020     20,000     1,500      1,500
    7.      NIANI        14         6,086        1,090          7,500      4,800      320        320
    8.      NIAMINA
            EAST         48         15,835       4,200          32,000     25,000     1,343      1343
    9.      WULI         77         35,962       0              104,220    3,000      0          3000
    10.     SANDU        80         18,304       2,800          50,690     20,000     1,940      1,940
    Total                     475     184,919        28,487      350,000    150,089     12,000      15,000
Source: PCU. Note: One more district was covered due to cost savings, bringing the total number of
districts covered to ten.



3
 Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project, District and Village Level
Agricultural Inputs Distribution Plan, March 2010.


                                                 7
22.     The PCU also prepared the procurement plan in advance of funds disbursement
and in readiness for the 2010/2011 cropping season; by the second supervision mission in
May 2010, all contract processes related to procurement of inputs and equipment had
been advanced4. Table 2 provides the status of contracts as at the second supervision
mission.

Table 2: Status of procurement activities for preparedness toward the 2010 growing season
(fertilizers, seeds, seeders, sine hoes, power tillers, threshers and motorcycles)
                                                  Expected
    Input/Equipment     Contract Status         Delivery Date      Responsible Unit
    Fertilizers         Signed                June 15th, 2010      PCU/Supplier
    Seeds               Signed                May 30th, 2010       PCU/Supplier
    Seeders             Signed                June 20th 2010       PCU/Supplier
    Sine Hoes           Signed                June 15th, 2010      PCU/Supplier
    Power Tillers       Signed                June 20th, 2010      PCU/Supplier
    Threshers           Signed                June 16th, 2010      PCU/Supplier
    Motorcycles         Signed                June 15th, 2010      PCU/Supplier
Source: Second Implementation Support Mission, Aide-Memoire, Annex 1

23.     These actions facilitated timely acquisition and distribution of inputs and
equipment, and by July 2010 the majority of inputs and equipment had already been
distributed to the beneficiaries5.

24.     Implementation of component 2 activities was however delayed, requiring an
extension of the project closing date to enable completion of those activities. The choice
of the PMU to start working on the second component only after the first one was
completed is the main cause for this delay. Both the Implementation Action Plan in the
Emergency Project Paper and the Aide Memoire of the May 2010 Implementation
Support Mission suggest that there was initial agreement to purposefully not give priority
to activities related to Component 2 (the rehabilitation of three seed multiplication centers
and of thirty-five storage facilities): (i) to ensure that all dated covenants are satisfactorily
implemented in good time; (ii) given, both its emergency nature and extra short term
course (eighteen months duration over which the project had to be implemented),
procurement was seen as very critical for activities related to the 2010 growing season.
Priority was therefore accorded to the procurement of inputs (fertilizers, seeds, seeders,
sine hoes, power tillers, threshers and motorcycles) in preparation for the 2010 growing
season that was only a few weeks away from starting; and (iii) plan to launch activities
related component 2 which by their nature could be delivered during the second year of
the project. Although this sequencing made sense, the PCU apparently overly


4
 Republic of The Gambia, Emergency Agricultural Production Project (P119892),
Second Supervision Mission and Implementation Support, May 10-11, 2010.
5
 Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project, Ministry of Agriculture, Status
Report, National Sensitization and Inputs Distribution of the GEAP, July 1st, 2010.


                                                8
concentrated on the delivery of inputs to the extent that the rehabilitation of civil works
component started too late for these to be completed in time to benefit the very good
harvest that was realized at the end of the 2010 cropping season.

25.     Notwithstanding, project implementation was bolstered by several factors,
including the high level of commitment of the PCU staff, the level of awareness created
in the beneficiary communities, the involvement of local government structures including
regional and village chiefs and the establishment of a national task force to oversee the
distribution of inputs. The rapid action by project management and Bank’s prompt
response to the proposals made by project management, have contributed to keeping the
implementation timetable on track. Besides, the degree of responsiveness on the part of
farmers and farmer groups, the NGOs involvement in the distribution of inputs, and
strong stakeholder synergies between the GoTG and development partners were equally
crucial to the successful implementation of the project.

26.     With the background of previously acquired experience in the management of
emergency projects, the PCU staff proactively undertook regular monitoring and
supervision of project activities, particularly during periods when there were no
supervision missions, and worked around the clock to ensure successful implementation
of the project. The PCU also ensured that the project received a great deal of publicity,
and a great deal of awareness was created at community levels. It built an awareness
creation team comprising 60 extension workers and 6 Regional Directors of Agriculture
(RDA). The team launched a week-long nationwide sensitization campaign exercise,
which covered 465 villages. During the exercise, the team conducted village-based
meetings to sensitize members of village development committees (VDC), kafoo (women
groups) and other farmers on the one-time nature of the intervention and how to work
together to reduce the risks of elite capture and input diversion. This effort was boosted
by the use of the national media, regional and community radios, including The Gambia
Television Services (GTS) to raise the awareness about the project and most specifically
the inputs distribution. Concurrently, the Deputy Minister and Permanent Secretary of
MoA, supported by key staff of the PCU, conducted nationwide sensitization meetings
with Regional Governors, Chiefs and Alkaloos (village heads) including the beneficiaries.
These coordinated efforts resulted in effective community participation, which ensured
real sense of ownership of the project amongst community members.

27.     Also, project implementation was helped by effective involvement of the local
government structures, including regional and village chiefs. At the local level, the
village chiefs frequently championed and mobilized the various farmers and farmer
groups under their respective areas of jurisdiction to fully participate in the
implementation of project activities. These farmers were very responsive to undertaking
agreed project activities. It is important to note that, the participation of NGOs was also
central to the successes of the project, particularly in group mobilization and transparent
distribution of the agro-inputs and equipments. The project relied heavily on the local
NGOs for implementation of activities, and they were very instrumental in the
distribution of farm inputs and equipment to the beneficiaries at village level. Strong
stakeholders’ synergies also contributed significantly to improved project

                                            9
implementation. The project enjoyed good collaboration between the government, the
World Bank and the EU delegation in The Gambia, which facilitated effective
monitoring, supervision, and funding.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.    The design of the M&E system was simple and focused on measuring the
performance indicators of the project, as indicated in the Results Framework of the
Emergency Project Paper. Given its emergency nature, the project focused on improving
access of beneficiaries to inputs rather than production, and so chose to measure the
number of beneficiaries and quantities of inputs/equipment delivered. The M&E
framework was therefore not designed to collect data on production or yields.

29.     To facilitate monitoring and reporting, the project signed a memorandum of
understanding with the Department of Agriculture to get the agricultural extension
workers equipped and assigned with some roles in monitoring the project
implementation. The extension workers were tasked with the responsibility of monitoring
and reporting implementation progress at all levels. In addition, six focal points under the
office of the Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA), were placed in the six regions of
the country. The focal points worked closely with the extension workers to ensure
effective monitoring and reporting of project outcomes.

30.     Field extension workers collected data and sent these onward to the focal persons,
who reviewed, cross checked data, and passed them onto the RDA for validation. Data
were then sent to the M&E unit of the PCU at the national level. The unit collated all data
and conducted counter field visits to verify the authenticity of the data before feeding it
into the M&E system. After the verification process, the unit inputted data into the
system, and then analyzed the results to inform management of areas that needed
attention. With the exception of the civil works, whose monitoring and supervision was
done on weekly basis, data collection and reporting efforts for the overall project was
conducted on monthly basis.

31.    The main threat to M&E implementation was poor quality of data from the
regions during the initial stages of project implementation. To resolve this issue, the staff
of the M&E unit of the PCU conducted intensive training for all field workers, including
the focal points and that tremendously improved data quality and reporting. Another
nagging issue was lack of requisite staff to support M&E implementation; the M&E unit
was run by one person, and the increased workload, to some extent, hindered effective
monitoring and supervision of project activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1. Safeguard Compliance
32.     Based on environmental and social safeguards assessments, GEAPP was rated as
a Category B project. The project triggered the environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)
safeguard policy. In line with the Bank’s requirements, an environmental and social

                                             10
       management framework (ESMF)6 was prepared and disclosed. The main objective of the
       framework was to identify and manage potential negative environmental impacts
       associated with project implementation, and ensure that appropriate mitigating measures
       were taken. The provisions of the ESMF were successfully implemented and no
       significant safeguard issues were detected during implementation. An environmental
       monitoring and inspection report conducted by the National Environmental Agency
       (NEA) at intervention/construction sites affirmed a safe disposal of asbestos roofing
       materials at the three rehabilitated seed multiplication centers. The project complied fully
       with safeguard procedures as outlined in OP/BP 4.01.

       2.4.2. Fiduciary Compliance
       33.     Financial Management. The project inherited its FM arrangement from its
       predecessor operation, the Bank financed GM-AELP. The PCU provided the Bank with
       the required financial management information through the quarterly interim reports
       which were of good quality and responsive to the recommendations of the Bank. The
       project’s financial management performance has been consistently rated satisfactory in
       the various ISRs. The project submitted Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) within
       acceptable timeframe, and in line with the Bank’s procedures. At the initial stage of
       implementation, the Bank FM team identified weaknesses in the FM system, including
       budgeting, internal controls, and accounting and reporting. The team appropriately made
       recommendations to improve the system. The project implemented the recommendations,
       which led to effective budget monitoring, switching from cash basis to accrual basis
       accounting and reporting. As a result of the implementation of effective FM system, the
       project achieved a disbursement rate of about 98% of total project financing.

       34.    Procurement. Procurement under the project was satisfactory. As discussed in
       section 2.2, the PCU prepared the procurement plan for the acquisition of inputs and
       equipment far in advance of the disbursement of the first tranche of project funds. The
       procurement plan was fully implemented and that ensured on-time distribution of inputs
       to farmers. The procurement process for civil works, however, took longer than expected
       and actual civil works started in October 2011. Regrettably, the benefits that would be
       derived from these facilities are deferred to the near future. A key issue that ensued
       during implementation was the recruitment of an independent auditor. Under the project
       implementation arrangement, this function was to be performed by the National Audit
       Office (NAO). However, the process took longer than expected as bureaucratic
       procedures, coupled with low capacity at NAO significantly delayed the procurement
       process.

       35.   The procurement process for the 35 storage facilities was successfully launched in
       October 2011. However, bids were received for only 23 facilities all of which were


6
 The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project (GEAPP), Environmental and Social Management Framework,
May 2010




                                                           11
successfully completed. Bids for the remaining 12 facilities were unsuccessful, because
none of the bidders for one lot met the required financial and technical qualification
criteria. A re-launch of the process could not be carried out due to the limited time for the
completion of the project. A little bit of flexibility in the selection criteria could have
helped in ensuring that the project’s target was met in this case.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36.      GEAPP specific post-completion operation was not discussed. But the preparation
and design of the West African Agricultural Production Program (WAAPP), which was
launched on March 20, 2012 benefitted significantly from GEAPP operations. The
WAAPP will consolidate the gains of GEAP in seed production and capacity building.
WAAPP will utilize the three rehabilitated seed multiplication centers as training
facilities for seed producers and also for the production of basic and foundation seeds, as
a means of laying the foundation for a sustainable farmer-based seed multiplication
network in The Gambia. The WAAPP will also strengthen the capacity of the relevant
institutional structures established under GEAPP to enable them to carry out their
functions of improving agricultural productivity in the Gambia effectively.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

37.     Satisfactory. The project’s objectives, design and implementation remain
relevant as it was at project inception and was a timely response to the rising food and
fuel prices. The intervention was consistent with the priorities of GoTG and its strategy to
moderate impact of the crisis in the short-, medium- to long-term. By focusing on
restoring production capacity and supporting farmers to improve their agricultural
production and productivity, the intervention fitted well into the set of priorities outlined
in the country action plan developed in collaboration with the national task force for food
security that was established as a response to the food crisis. The intervention was also
aligned with the sector strategic directions as enshrined in the country’s PRSP II and the
Vision 2020 document, and also consistent with the Joint Bank and AfDB Assistance
Strategy (JAS) for The Gambia, which emphasized the need to make agriculture the pole
for economic growth.

38.     The project’s design was appropriate and fully consistent with the procedures of
the European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility. It was also consistent with the
broader objectives of the Bank’s GFRP, which were to: (i) reduce the negative impact of
high and volatile food process on the poor in a timely way; (ii) support governments in
the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the impact of high and volatile food prices
on poverty while minimizing the creation of long-term distortions in the market; and (iii)
support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in agriculture to
ensure adequate and sustainable food supply response.




                                             12
39.      The intervention was complementary to on-going interventions of other
development partners, including: the Animal Production Project (PROGEBE) funded by
the Islamic Development Bank and GoTG; World Bank funded Community Demand
Driven Project (CDDP); Participatory Integrated Watershed Management Project
(PIWAB) funded by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the
African Development Bank (AfDB). Project support to the production of the main local
food crops (early millet and rice) was a particularly insightful proposition. By focusing
on the provision of key inputs (starter packs) and equipment to smallholders and
improving post-harvest storage capacities while building capacity for seed production,
the intervention rightly supported the short-, medium- to long-term strategy of the
government to improve and maintain food security. The swift manner in which seed,
fertilizer and basic farm equipments were procured and distributed to farmers illustrate
the proactive measures that were taken during preparation to ensure adequate
implementation readiness that would allow the project to hit the ground running
immediately after approval.

40.      Moreover, the project relied on a limited number of simple results indicators
which is deemed an appropriate choice for emergency interventions of this kind. The
emergency interventions, such as distribution of agricultural inputs, and development
activities that have short-to medium-term goals, e.g. the rehabilitation of agricultural
infrastructure (such as seed production systems and seed stores), were well balanced. The
latter are expected to lead to a self-sustaining production system.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41.     Satisfactory. Overall, the GEAPP was successful in achieving its development
objectives. Its interventions helped increase farmers access to early millet and rice seeds,
doses of NPK and urea fertilizers for the targeted crops, as well as farm machinery and
equipment.

42.     The achievement of the PDO is measured by five key performance indicators,
agreed at appraisal and outlined in the Emergency Project Paper. The project successfully
achieved all of the performance indicators. The following section assesses the
achievement of the PDO indicators (see Annex 2 for a detailed review of the project’s
outputs by component).

By the end of project:

      20,000 farmers have received improved millet and rice seeds. This indicator was
       fully achieved. The project surpassed this target by distributing 25 tons of early
       millet and 500 tons of rice seeds to over 76,981 farmers (made up of 56,280 direct
       beneficiaries and 20,701 indirect beneficiaries) in 600 villages. This resulted in
       total production of 22,113 tons for both rice and early millet at the end of project.
      20,000 farmers have received recommended doses of NPK and urea fertilizer.
       This indicator was largely achieved. The project exceeded this target and provided
       56,280 farmers (direct beneficiaries) with 3,000 tons of NPK and urea fertilizers

                                            13
           to farmers in 600 villages in the intervention districts, largely at doses less than
           the recommended rates as many more farmers pressured for support.
          667 organized farmer groups have received farm machinery. The target for this
           indicator was surpassed by 203 as a result of procurement and distribution of
           additional machinery and equipment such as rice and coarse grain milling
           machines, multi-crop threshers, knap sack sprayers, and motorized sprayers,
           which benefitted a total of 26,100 farmers.7
          Village level grain and seed post-harvest storage capacity in targeted districts
           has increased by 350 tons. This indicator was fully achieved and the target
           surpassed. The post-harvest capacity in all the intervention districts increased by
           550 tons at the end of project.
          Total number of direct beneficiaries reached by the end of project. This
           indicator was fully achieved. The total number of direct beneficiaries reached at
           the end of project amounted to 56,280 farmers.

43.    Table 3 summarizes the achievement of the PDO outcomes and their effect on
production and yield at the end of project.

Table 3: Achievement of key performance indicators and their impact on production and yield
                                                                                  End of Project
    Indicator                                                   Target              Outcome
    Number of farmers that received improved millet and         20,000         76,981
    rice seeds
    Number of farmers that received recommended doses of        20,000         56,280
    NPK and urea fertilizer
    Number of organized farmer groups that received farm        667            870
    machinery
    Village level grain and seed pot-harvest storage capacity   350 tons       550 tons
    in targeted districts increased by 350 tons
    Total number of direct beneficiaries reached.               30,000         56,280*
Source: Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, PCU
* An additional 20,701 indirect beneficiaries received seeds from direct beneficiary farmers, bringing the
overall total to 76,981 beneficiaries.

3.3 Efficiency

44.     As this is an emergency operation and in line with the Bank’s operational policies
(OP 8.0), a conventional economic and financial analysis was not undertaken at appraisal.
In spite of the difficulties in carrying out thorough analysis, however, the socio-economic
impact of the project has been significant as witnessed by beneficiaries and other
stakeholders. Taking into account all activities, the project has reached over 76,000
beneficiaries, which is an appreciable figure. Analysis of the project’s costs per


7
  At total of 870 farmer groups received equipment. Each famer group comprised of 30 members, averagely, bringing
the total beneficiary farmer that received machinery to 26,100= 30x870, and included in the total number of
beneficiaries stated above.


                                                       14
beneficiaries and inputs indicated that the project was cost efficient. (See Annex 3 for a
summary discussion of the analysis).

45.     This being an emergency operation, the timing of making support available is also
of the essence. In this context it is worth noting that the project was swift in procuring
seed, fertilizers and basic farm equipment because of pro-active planning. With the 2010
growing season only a few weeks away from the project was able to provide the farm
input support to all the beneficiaries in a timely fashion.

46.    The impact on the seed multiplication centers and seed store is equally significant.
The project is credited for contributing to the rehabilitation of the seed system in The
Gambia. Regrettably, the benefits that would be derived from these facilities are deferred
to the near future. However, once the operation begins, their contribution to increased
farm level productivity and household food security will be enormous.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

47.     Rating: Satisfactory. The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. This is
based on the high relevance of the PDO, the achievement of all the project outcome
indicators, and the cost efficiency as well as the timeliness of the operation. It helped to
restore the production capacity of the majority of poor farmers who were seriously
affected by the food crisis.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.     Impacts on incomes of farmer groups. The project helped improved incomes of
organized farmer groups, particularly during the first cropping season, at community
level, and thereby improved livelihoods among the target population. It assisted 300
communities to set up village accounts and seed banks into which proceeds generated
from revolving seeds, fertilizer and the use of machinery were saved. Information from
the beneficiary assessment survey show that an organized farmer group in Madina Sering
Mass village in the North Bank Region (NBR) generated GMD250, 000 (US$8,303.33)
from revolving seeds and fertilizers, and an organized farmer group, Fass Omar Chako
also in the North Bank Region generated about GMD400, 000 (US$13,285.30) from the
use of the inputs (seed, fertilizer, and machinery) they received. In Kani Kunda in the
Lower River Region (LRR) and Bondali Tenda in the West Coast Region (WCR), an
organized      farmer     group       realized   GMD68,000        (US$2,193.46)     and
GMD10,000(US$332.13) respectively from seeds, fertilizers and the use of power tiller.

49.     Impacts on gender. The project substantially had positive impacts on women. As
noted in section 3.2, over 76,981 farmers in the intervention areas benefitted from the
project’s investments, of which 46,188 (about 60%) were women. The project’s support
to Women in The Gambia is highly commendable, to the extent of being awarded a
Certificate of Commendation and Appreciation by the Vice President (who is also the

                                            15
Minister for Women’s Affairs), in recognition of the invaluable support of the Project to
Gambian Women during the National Women’s Day Celebration on May 19, 2012.

(b)Institutional change/strengthening
50.     The project resulted in a number of institutional changes at community and
national level.

      At the community level, the project, in close collaboration with Plant Protection
       Services (PPS) of the Department of Agriculture (DoA), built the capacity of
       farmers from the beneficiary village stores management committees (VSMC) in
       stores and product management techniques, including bookkeeping, labeling and
       seed storage skills. To improve labeling and storage, the project provided farmers
       with 23 sets of store record books and labels. This enhanced their day-to-day
       operations.
      At the national level, the project strengthened the PCU’s capacity in monitoring
       and evaluation and financial management through the establishment of a robust
       M&E systems and an electronic accounting system. Additionally, the project
       strengthened the PCU’s staff capacity through several short-term courses in
       financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, data
       management, stores and supplies management and administrative and project
       management. This has put the PCU in good shape to effectively implement the
       WAAPP. However, there is the need to beef up the numerical strengthen of the
       PCU in core fiduciary and monitoring and evaluation functions as these units are
       significantly under staffed. Further capacity building interventions will also be
       required to enhance their expertise.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

51.     As part of project completion, a beneficiary assessment survey was conducted.
The findings from the survey highlighted significant benefits to the beneficiaries in the
project’s intervention areas. The following benefits were noted.

      Improved food self-sufficiency: The project helped beneficiaries accumulate
       enough food stuffs from their 2010/2011 farm produce. As a result, most
       beneficiaries were able to save monies that would have been used to purchase
       food for other purposes, such as expenditure on their children’s education and
       health care for the members of their households.
      Improved household incomes: Through the project’s interventions, the majority
       of households were able to keep seeds for the next season, and sold the surplus.
       This culminated in increased incomes for the beneficiary households. With an
       increase in incomes levels, some of the households diversified their economic
       activities and embarked on animal rearing and petty trading.
      Increased area of cultivation: The project’s support to famers enabled them to
       increase their area of cultivation. The survey found that about 76.3% of the target

                                           16
       beneficiaries were able to increase their areas of cultivation compared to 45.7% of
       the non-target group.
      Change in community crop cultivation habit: Traditionally, the community of
       Fass Omar Saho focused on the cultivation of groundnut. Prior to the
       implementation of GEAPP, the community members had never cultivated rice.
       But through intensive sensitization campaigns carried out by the project, the
       community adopted rice cultivation and became the largest producer of upland
       rice in the district during the 2010 cropping season. The community also
       increased the production of early millet considerably.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: moderate.
52.    The major risk to development outcomes and sustainability of project benefits are
moderate, given the renewed commitment of the government, the improvement in the
socio-economic situation of the beneficiaries, and the level of infrastructure in place. The
discussion of the key risks to development outcomes are as follows.
     Institutional risks to development outcome are low. The government’s
       commitment to addressing food security issues led to the creation of national,
       regional and community level institutions, including the National Task Force on
       soaring food prices, and village development committees and built the foundation
       on which the project was implemented. The project strengthened these
       institutions by building their capacity to carry out assigned roles in the operation.
       The project’s support to village development committees will sustain
       development outcomes.
     Social risk to development outcomes is substantial. The project helped improve
       incomes of farmers through increased production and yield. However, due to
       weather failure, farmers experienced a sharp drop in production during the second
       cropping season. This situation poses significant threat to alleviating poverty in
       the target districts.
     Financial risk to development outcomes is low. The risk of not maintaining
       equipment for lack of funds is reduced because beneficiaries are charging user
       fees that will be used for the operation and maintenance of equipment and
       facilities.
     Infrastructural risk to development outcomes is low. The rehabilitation of the
       three strategically placed seed multiplication centers and the 23 seed storage
       facilities in the intervention areas will ensure the availability of seeds as well as
       the preservation of seeds during future cropping seasons. Store management
       committees were formed and trained to put in place measures to sustainably
       manage the facilities. Some of the measures put in place by store management
       committees include payment of user levies to raise resources for periodic
       fumigations of the stores and routine maintenance of the infrastructure. The
       project laid the necessary infrastructure, including irrigation facilities for
       multiplication of seeds. The ongoing WAAPP is expected to sustain these gains.




                                            17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

53.     Rating: Satisfactory. Bank performance at project preparation and appraisal is
rated satisfactory. The Bank put together a good multi-sectoral team with tremendous
support from fiduciary, legal, disbursement and safeguards. The team worked closely
with the PCU to ensure quality of preparation consistent with the Bank’s GFRP
procedures and operations guidelines as well as the European Union Food Crisis Rapid
Response Facility procedures. To improve quality of preparation, the Bank participated
in an IASP mission in 2008, which culminated in the preparation of the CAP to combat
the food insecurity in the country. Findings from the CAP served as inputs into the
preparation of the GEAPP. As noted earlier, the Bank adopted a participatory approach
throughout the preparation process bringing together key stakeholders, including
development partners. Contributions from the stakeholders significantly helped improve
the project’s design.

(b) Quality of Supervision

54.      Rating: Satisfactory. Bank performance with respect to supervision is rated
satisfactory. The Bank focused on effective implementation of project activities through
the conduct of intensive supervision missions. Despite the short duration of the project,
the Bank organized five supervision missions, with the final mission undertaken in
November 2011, two months before project closure. Within the first five months after
project approval, the team carried out two implementation support missions, one in
February and the other in May 2010 to support the client to achieve implementation
readiness of the project in good time. Thanks to the proactive support and diligence from
the task team, the project became effective on March 1, 2010, two months after its
approval. During such missions, the Bank adopted a pragmatic approach to solving issues
that seemingly posed threats to the achievement of the development outcomes. The Bank
made a number of recommendations and agreed with the PCU on concrete actions to
resolve the issues. For example, during the first supervision mission in February 2010,
the Bank’s FM team identified a number of weaknesses related to budgeting, accounting,
and internal controls in the FM system. To resolve the issues, the team agreed with the
PCU on a number of key actions needed to improve the system, and by the second
supervision mission in May the same year, the PCU had implemented all the actions
leading to improvement in the system. The FM status was, consequently, rated as
satisfactory.

55.     In the spirit of building synergies among development partners, and to improve
quality of supervision, the Bank maintained an open policy and collaborated effectively
with the EU delegation in The Gambia and the FAO team during supervision missions.
This facilitated sharing of project specific information as well as those of the GFRP.



                                           18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

56.     Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory,
particularly with regard to the quality of project preparation, albeit under fast pace, and
the quality of supervision of project activities. The intervention was sound and in line
with the Bank’s assistance strategy for The Gambia. It supported clearly focused
activities that were consistent with the strategic objectives of The Gambia.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

57.      Rating: Satisfactory. Government performance is rated as satisfactory. GoTG
was quick in responding to the global food crisis and the soaring food prices by outlining
its strategic vision while galvanizing support from development partners to complement
its efforts. The Government was prepared to take key decisions to increase the
availability of affordable rice by taking steps to systematically reduce sales tax on rice
imports in July 2007 from 15% to 5% and then eliminating it altogether in May 2008,
among other interventions. Under the office of the Vice President, a national task force
on food security was established) which carried out an inter-agency assessment of the
souring food crisis. The main outcome of this assessment was the basis for this
intervention. The Government showed strong commitment to the operation and was very
responsive in all matters during preparation and implementation. At project inception,
The GoTG complied fully with all agreed covenants and collaborated effectively with the
development partners in all project preparation related matters. The GoTG provided
strong support to the PCU, and never interfered in its day-to-day activities.

58.     The GoTG was very committed to achieving the PDO, and was very instrumental
in the sensitization and awareness creation of the project at national, regional and local
levels. Its key officials participated fully in all sensitization campaigns across the country.

59.    The GoTG maintained a cordial relationship with the Bank and key development
partners (the EU) at all stages of the project cycle. This ensured effective stakeholder
consultations, and timely resolution of key implementation issues. As noted earlier, The
GoTG also demonstrated its commitment by putting in place a national task force which
oversaw a transparent distribution of farm inputs and equipment to project beneficiaries.

60.  However, the GoTG’s contribution to effective financial management through the
NAO proved to be a difficult task as administrative bureaucracy and limited capacity at
NAO delayed the recruitment of an independent auditor.




                                              19
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

61.     Rating: Satisfactory. The implementation agency’s performance is rated as
satisfactory. The PCU worked collaboratively with the Bank team in ensuring quality of
project preparation. During implementation, the PCU demonstrated a high level of
commitment to achievement of project outcomes by working tirelessly to respond to all
queries from the Bank team and as well acted, timely, on recommendations and guidance
from implementation support missions. By the commencement of the second supervision
mission in May 2010, the PCU had implemented all the agreed dated covenants.

62.     The PCU was also very proactive in planning in advance to ensure on time
distribution of inputs to beneficiaries, through the preparation of input distribution action
plan and procurement plan far before the release of the first tranche of funds. It embarked
on intensive monitoring and supervision of project activities. In particular, it carried out
monitoring and supervision of civil works on weekly basis to ensure successful
completion of activities before the end of project. The PCU ensured timely reporting of
implementation progress.

63.     Overall, the PCU delivered on its commitments and was very responsive to Bank
requests in terms of monitoring project performance and implementing recommendations
from missions and reviews. Indeed, the collective efforts of the implementing agencies
gained the project a lot of visibility and earned it Presidential recognitions, including the
Certificate of Commendation and Appreciation awarded to the Project by the Vice
President (who is also the Minister for Women’s Affairs), in recognition of the invaluable
support of the Project to Gambian Women during the National Women’s Day Celebration
on May 19, 2012.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

64.     Rating: Satisfactory. The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory,
taking into account the high level of commitment shown by the government and the PCU
in the preparation and implementation of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

65.     The involvement of NGOs in the distribution of inputs in emergency
operations was vital in ensuring transparency. The use of local NGOs ensured timely
distribution of inputs to the beneficiaries and minimization of several risks including elite
capture.

66.     Lack of effective sensitization and adequate human resource in implementing
institutions hinder delivery of emergency operations. The PCU encountered serious
delays in the recruitment of independent auditors as a result of too much administrative
bureaucracy and lack of capacity at the national audit office, which nearly led to
suspension of disbursement. Future project designs should aim at strengthening the



                                             20
capacity of staff of government institutions that would be involved in project
implementation.

67.    Less complex and simply designed projects that also take into consideration
the institutional capacities of the country is more likely to be successful. Design of
emergency projects should be simple and straightforward but should also focus on the
immediate priority needs of the affected populations. The focus on the GoTG’s
immediate priorities, including the needs of the target beneficiaries was a major
contributor to the project’s success.

68.     Interventions that help to mitigate climate change effects, such as adverse
weather, would help boost production and alleviate poverty of beneficiaries. The
GEAPP helped increase production dramatically during the first year, but rainfall failure
at the second year impacted negatively on incomes of farmers.

69.     Close monitoring of annual plans as well as approved procurement plans are
critical to completing emergency projects of this nature. The PCU’s choice to start
working on the second component only when the first one is finished led to the delay of
the rehabilitation of storage facilities and seed multiplication centres that were meant to
ensure some sustainability of the project. The rehabilitation started too late for the
structures to be completed in time for use after the 2010 good harvest.

70.    It can be problematic using short-term emerging funding for long-term
funding activities. There can be medium to long-term benefits in the rehabilitation of
seed stores and seed multiplication centers, however, combining these in a very short-
term emergency operation can result in project delays, which can result in loss of project
funds when extensions to closing dates are not granted.

71.    Clearly defined roles for the Bank and the "EU delegation", especially at the
country level, in Bank-supported interventions funded through EU trust funds
enhances cooperation and improves collaboration. The administrative agreements
should clearly define reporting chain as well as the responsibilities of the Bank to the EU
Delegation operating in the recipient countries.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

See Annex 7 for a summary of GoTG’s ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                                   millions)
Provision of agricultural inputs and
                                                4.15                   4.04         93.35
equipment
                                                1.72                   1.65         95.93
                                                1.24                   1.17         94.36
              Total Baseline Cost               7.11                   6.86         96.48

Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00         0.00
             Total Project Costs                7.11                   6.86         96.48
Project Preparation Costs                       0.00                   0.00          .00
                                                0.00                   0.00          .00
      Total Financing Required                  7.11                   6.86         96.48




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD         (USD    Appraisal
                                                            millions)    millions)
Trust Funds                                              0.00         0.00
Global Food Crisis Response
                                                         7.11           6.86      96.48
Program




                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Provision of agricultural inputs and equipment
72.       This component financed the provision of 3,000 tons of fertilizer and 525 tons of
seed for distribution to 20,000 millet and rice farmers to increase domestic food
production capacity, including the purchase of 667 pieces of farm machinery (power
tillers, threshers, seeders, and sine-hoes) for distribution to 667 farmer groups to enhance
labor productivity. The component also financed training and extension services to
beneficiaries on the proper use of the inputs. It also funded communications campaign
and sensitization activities to underscore the emergency, one time, nature of the
subsidized inputs intended to restore production capacity of the vulnerable and the
severely affected farm households. The component’s achievements are rated satisfactory.
Table 2.1 show key intermediate outcomes performance.

Table 2.1: Key Intermediate Performance and Output Indicators for Component 1
 No Indicator                                         Baseline      Target      Actual Value
                                                                                 Achieved
 1.   Tons of seed procured and distributed to farmers.     -       525             525
 2.   Tons of fertilizer procured and distributed to        -       3,000          3,000
      farmers
 3.   Number of pieces of farm machinery procured and       -       667            1,668
      distributed to farmers

73.     As shown in table 2.1 above, the component fully achieved its targets. The project
procured and distributed a total of 525 tons of seeds made up of 350 tons of upland rice
(NERICA), 150 tons of lowland rice, and 25 tons early millet seeds to over 20,000
farmers in 600 intervention villages throughout the country. As results of this
intervention, 120 communities were introduced to rice cultivation. To boost production,
the project concurrently distributed 3000 metric tons (1500 tons NPK and 1500 tons
Urea) fertilizer packages to the beneficiary farmers. The project also procured and
distributed 1,668 pieces of farm machinery exceeding the initial target of 667 to
beneficiary farmers.

74.     The project distributed 300 power tillers, 367 sets of seeders, sine hoes and
threshers to 667 farmer groups to bolster post-harvest processing and land tillage. To
ensure effective utilization and sustainability of this machinery, the project through the
Agricultural Engineering Services (AES) of DoA, organized training for 300 power tiller
operators, including refresher training on operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
machinery. Also to improve post-harvest processing and minimize losses, the project
procured labor savings devices, including 22 rice milling, 10 coarse grain milling and 5
tractor driven multi crop threshers to 32 communities in five districts. Over 80 operators
were trained in O&M of the machines. To ensure effective maintenance of the
equipment, the project procured and distributed 300 sets of power tiller spare parts to 300
beneficiary communities. Additionally, the project supplied 230 beneficiary villages
with 200 knap sack sprayers, 30 motorized sprayers, 2.5 tons of seed storage dust, 160
cartons of seed dressing chemicals and 230 sets of complete personal protective gears.

                                                       23
These tools were meant to protect the farmers and improve safeguards against potential
effects of pesticides.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of seed multiplication and post-harvest
infrastructure

75.      This component financed (i) rehabilitation of physical infrastructure in three seed
multiplication centers located in Sapu, Chamen and Giroba; (ii) procurement and
installation of supplemental irrigation and equipment to increase year-round production
of certified seed; and the supply of variable inputs (base seed and fertilizer) needed to
initiate seed multiplication. The component targeted financing the rehabilitation of 35 out
of 250 village-level storage facilities in the country to minimize post-harvest losses. The
achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. Table 2.2 shows key intermediate
outcome indicators.

Table 2.2: Key Intermediate Performance and Output Indicators for Component 2

 No    Indicator                                            Baseline   Target   Actual Value
                                                                                 Achieved
 1.    35 storage facilities fully rehabilitated and           -        35          23
       available to farmers for storage of seed and grain
 2.    Three (3) seed multiplication centers are fully         3         3           3
       rehabilitated to produce seed for farmers.
 3.    Seed production capacity increased from 30 to 90       30        90          90
       tons

76.     As indicated in Table 2.3 above, the project rehabilitated 23 out of targeted 35
village seeds stores; 12 out of the 23 were new constructions. The target was not met
because of procurement issues. When the tender for this activity was launched, none of
the bidders met the financial and technical qualification criteria for one lot, and there was
limited time to initiate re-launching of the procurement process. Despite the fact that the
target was not achieved, the capacity of the improved storage facilities increased
significantly. At project inception, village level storage capacity was zero. The project
achieved 550 tons, surpassing the 350 tons target. To improve package of produce, the
project equipped the stores with 230 wooden pallets. These wooden pallets allowed
effective circulation of air through the produce.

77.     The component fully achieved its objective of revamping the 3 seed
multiplication centers in Chamen, Sapu and Jiroba. At the three centers, the project (i)
rehabilitated and constructed permanent fencing, staff quarters, offices, stores, drying
floors, drilling of bore holes; (ii) installed solar system powered infrastructures; (iii)
provided three heavy duty (27KVA) generators as back up to ensure sustainable power
supply for irrigation; (iv) installed drip and sprinkler irrigation distribution system
covering 20ha of land to increase year round production and multiplication of improved
seeds for farmers. To improve operational efficiency of the multiplication centers, the
project furnished the male and female hostels with 40 sets of beds and mattresses at


                                                    24
Chamen. The centers were also equipped with three sets of computers, printers and office
furniture.

78.     With respect to target 3 in table 2.2, the project could not immediately meet the
target as production activities could not be implementation within the limited time. The
benefits that would be derived from these facilities are deferred to the near future, as the
project has laid a solid foundation for a full scale seed production under the WAAPP. The
seed production capacity of the three centers has been enhanced. It is expected that the
rehabilitated centers will be in the position to produce over 90 tons under the ongoing
WAAPP, with the increased seed production capacity.

79.     To ensure sustainability of activities of farmers groups, the project built the
capacity of farmers in bookkeeping and labeling, and supplied them with 23 sets of store
record books and labels. 115 farmers made up of 5 farmers from each of the beneficiary
village stores management committees (VSMC) were trained in stores and product
management. In collaboration with Plant Protection Services (PPS) of Department of
Agriculture, farmers have been equipped with techniques of ensuring proper storage of
seeds and durability of the stores. To ensure proper maintenance of facilities, the project
through PPS trained 60 farmer trainers in operation and maintenance of knapsack and
motorized sprayers. Over 60 villages benefited from the training. Through the National
Agricultural Research Institute (NARI), the project provided training for 180 farmers
from Seed Grower Associations (SGA) in the catchment area of the three seed
multiplication centers. The WAAPP is expected to build on and sustain this initiative.

Component 3: Support for project coordination and monitoring and evaluation8
80.    This component improved project management capacity in the areas of financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and general administrative duties.
The project strengthened the capacity of the PCU through several short-term courses in
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, data management, stores
and supplies management and administrative and project management. Nine key staff
benefited from various overseas training in reputable international institutions.

81.     Project management also ensured effective implementation and monitoring of
project interventions. Key activities carried out under this component included: (i)
provision of 30 motorbikes for DOA extension workers; (ii) engagement of 10 NGOs to
conduct sensitization campaigns in intervention villages throughout the country, which
benefited over 60,000 farmers. The NGOs were also involved in distribution of inputs,
which helped introduce transparency and accountability into the distribution system.

82.   Communication and dissemination of results were an integral part of project
implementation. In this regard, project management collaborated effectively with the



8
    This component did not have intermediate outcome indicators.


                                            25
media houses to cover, document, and televise project achievements. To improve the
project’s visibility, project management distributed over 1,000 GEAP calendars, printed
3,000 T-shirts, 500 leaflets, 50 signboards, and 10 billboards, prepared photo albums and
stickers which bore the logos of the European Union and the World Bank and the EU.
The project also organized television and radio panel discussions covering 120 hours of
airtime over the period of project implementation at community and national levels.
These interventions projected the positive image of the project country-wide.




                                           26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

83.     The development objective of the project was to improve access to agricultural
inputs, equipment and post-harvest storage capacity by targeting farmers in nine
vulnerable districts. Specific objectives of the project were to (i) provide subsidized
improved seed, fertilizer and farm machinery to smallholder farmers and farmer groups,
(ii) improve post-harvest storage capacity through the rehabilitation of village-level grain
and seed storage facilities; and (iii) lay the foundation for a sustainable farmer-based seed
multiplication system through the rehabilitation of three seed multiplication centers.

Project beneficiaries

84.    The project’s targeted direct beneficiaries included a total population of 238,000
people in nine most vulnerable districts in The Gambia. These districts were identified
based on rainfall patterns, the extent of soil degradation, and the lingering impact of the
1980’s drought, the impact of the 2006 dry spell, the impact of the locust invasion, and
the impact of the food crisis. Individual beneficiaries targeted by the project included
farmers and farmer groups. These groups were identified based on need, with specific
consideration to gender.

Methodology

85.     The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project is a rapid response
project and thus does not lend itself to rigorous financial and economic analysis. In this
regard, cost per unit of input procured and the cost per beneficiary are estimated as
measures of project efficiency. The analysis only took into account the project’s direct
beneficiaries. Similarly, the costs of inputs were compared with the quantity of inputs
procured for the project to arrive at cost per input. The analysis focused mainly on inputs
for which domestic prices were available. Prices of these inputs were obtained from the
average price list of inputs from The Gambia Community-based Development Project
(CDDP) database. Table 3.1 provides the prevailing prices of key inputs in The Gambia.

Table 3.1: Prevailing prices of selected agricultural inputs in The Gambia in
2009/2010 Agricultural Season
      Description          Measurement Unit        Average cost          Average cost
                                                       (GMD)                 (USD)
 Seeders                  standard                        4500.00                     160,71
 Sine Hoes                standard                        4750.00                     169,64
 NPK                      50kg                             700.00                         25
 Urea                    50kg                           750.00                         26.79
 Millet                   50kg                           575.00                        20.54
 Power tiller             standard                      130,000                     4,642.86
Source: CDDP’s price lists database, August 2012.
Exchange rate: US$1=GMD28

                                             27
Results
86.     The outcome of the analysis depicts that project implementation was very cost
efficient, as unit costs of inputs favorably compares with the prevailing market prices. As
shown in Table 3.2, the total cost per beneficiary, including inputs costs, equipment costs,
and transport and distribution costs, for the 2010/2011 cropping season amounted to
US$72.12. In year two (2011/2012 cropping season), only milling machines, and multi-
crop threshers were procured at a cost of US$4.36 per beneficiary.

Table 3.2: Project cost per beneficiary
 Cost per beneficiary
                                                              Year 1                 Year 2
                                                          (US$/beneficiary)      (US$/beneficiary)
 Inputs
  Certified Seeds                                               15.77
 Fertilizers (NPK and Urea)                                     72.08
 Equipment
 Power tillers,                                                 87.84
 Threshers, sine hoes & seeders                                                          63.21
 Transport and distribution
 Power tiller to regions, power tiller from regions to          2.52
 villages & fertilizer to regions
 Total Cost                                                    178.21                    63.21
Source: ICR team’s own calculation based on total number of beneficiaries and cost figures from
PCU database

87.    In addition to calculating total cost per beneficiary, the team also examined cost
per input. The total cost per input, including equipment, transport and distribution in year
one amounted to US$1595.56. Procurement of milling, coo milling, generators and multi
crop threshers were done in year two. The total cost per input for these equipment
amounted to US$1595.56. Table 3.3 presents project cost per input.

Table 3.3: Project cost per input
 Cost per input
                                                                             Year 1                Year 2
                                                                           (US$/input)           (US$/input)
 Inputs
 Certified seeds                                                              668.03                  -
 Fertilizers (NPK and Urea)                                                     26.72
 Equipment
 Power tillers                                                                1,769.00               -
 Threshers, sine hoes and seeders                                                                  386.13
 Transport and distribution
 Power tiller to regions, power tiller from regions to villages &              186.94
 fertilizer to regions
 Total cost                                                                   1,982.6              386.13
Source: ICR team’s own calculation based on production and cost figures from PCU database




                                                     28
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
 Maniével Sene                Rural Development Specialist        AFTAR TTL
Jane C. Hopkins               Senior Agricultural Economist       AFTAR
Badara Alieu Joof             Liaison Officer                     AFMGM
Denis Jean Jacques Jordy      Senior Environmental Specialist     AFTEIN
Soulemane Fofona              Operations Officer                  AFTAR
Ronnie W. Hammad              Senior Operations Officer           AFTRL
Demba Baldé                   Senior Social Development officer   AFTCs
Korotoumou Ouattra            Senior Financial Economist          AFTFW
Maimouna Fam Mbow             Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Sidy Diop                     Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
Anthony Molle                 Counsel                             LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab               Senior Financial Officer            CTRFC
Elisabeth Mekonnen            Language Program Assistant          AFTAR
Anta Tall Diallo              Team Assistant                      AFCFI
Supervision/ICR
Maniével Sene                 Rural Development Specialist        AFTAR TTL
Jean-Phillip Tre              Senior Agricultural Economist       AFTAR TTL
Maimouna Mbow Fam             Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Iskandar Chattas              Procurement Specialist
 Sidy Diop                    Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
 Badara Alieu Joof            Liaison Officer                     AFMGM
 Fatou Fall Samba             Financial Management Analyst        AFCF1
Kadir Osman Gyasi             Agricultural Economist              AFTAR ICR-TTL

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
             Lending
              FY09                                0                         0.0
            Total:                                                         0.00
        Supervision/ICR
             FY10                                 0                         0.0
             FY11                                 0                         0.0
             FY12                               9.07                       52.87
            Total:                              9.07                       52.87




                                               29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

88.    The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project (GEAPP) was funded by
the European Union (EU) through the World Bank to the government of The Gambia in
2010. Aimed at supporting and mitigating the impact of the souring food, fuel and
financial crisis on the most vulnerable farmers in the form of a grant, the project had an
operational period of eighteen months. The GEAPP intervention ended in February 2012.
With the aim of documenting lessons learned and overall effectiveness of the project, the
evaluation was commissioned under the leadership of GEAPP Coordination Unit.
Specifically, it measures the impact of the project on agricultural production and
productivity as well as its overall socio-economic benefits on the livelihood of its
intended beneficiaries.

89.     The evidence from the evaluation shows that GEAPP has had significant impact
on the lives and livelihoods of its beneficiaries. The project’s contributions to increased
agricultural production resulting in increased food availability, thus improved and
strengthened food self-sufficiency of the households. In fact, in almost all the treatment
villages enumerated, beneficiaries claimed that their 2010/2011 farm produce was
enough to feed them a complete year.

90.    Although the evidence suggests that there are many factors that contributed to the
increased yield, beneficiaries to a high degree attributed it to the effective utilization of
the seeds and fertilizer provided by GEAPP as well as the extension and coaching support
they received from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the staff of the Project Line
Ministry - Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and other partners. Notwithstanding the great
achievements, some external factors like the application of stringent procurement rules in
an emergency nature of GEAPP delayed project achievements.

91.      Considering the effect of the utilization of the seeds and fertilizer provided
(increased rice production and availability) and the increase in cultivated area in
2011/2012 season during which the machinery (power tillers, sine hoe and seeder) were
first used and the effect (poor rains and distribution), the priority projects in the few years
should focus input provision and multiplication to ensure easy access by all potential
beneficiaries.

92.     From the gender perspective, the project has made significant strives to support
the women folk. In fact, gender considerations were specifically mentioned in the input
distribution plan and 60% of project beneficiaries are women. At the village level,
women play an important leadership role in the distribution of the production inputs and
are highly represented at the executive level of the village organization that manages the
village’s development affairs.




                                              30
93.    In view of the fact that 2011/2012 cropping has been declared a total crop failure
in The Gambia, the need for GEAPP two in 2012/2013 is more urgent than ever before.
Given this emergency situation, most Gambian farmers do not have seeds to do any
meaningful crop production in 2012/2013 and with immediate emergency response; the
gains of GEAPP could be consolidated within the shortest possible time.




                                           31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                     32
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Background

94.     It is a requirement as stipulated in the grant agreement signed between World
Bank and the Government of The Gambia for the funding and implementation of The
Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project (GEAPP) to prepare and submit a
project completion report at the end of the project.

95.     The GEAPP was an eighteen (18) months project funded by the European Union
and being implemented through the Bank as result of the soaring food, fuel and financial
crisis of 2008 to help the Government of The Gambia in mitigating the effects of the
three Fs on the affected farmers, the economy and overall agricultural development of the
country. In that regard, five million and three hundred thousand Euros (5.3m) was
provided by the European Union through World Bank. The project started on 2nd
February 2010, and the original closing date revised from 30th August 2011 to 31st
December 2011. Due to cumbersome procurement procedures coupled with other factors,
the Government of The Gambia requested for an extension to allow the completion of the
rehabilitation of seed multiplications centers. Such a request was approved by the Bank,
thus the project extended for two months. Finally, the project phased out on February 29th
2012.

Project Development Objective (PDO)

96.     The objective of the project is to improve access to agricultural inputs, equipment
and post-harvest storage capacity by targeted farmers in ten districts. In particular, the
project aims at (i) providing subsidized improved seeds, fertilizer and farm machinery to
small holder farmers and farmers groups, (ii) improving post-harvest storage capacity
through the rehabilitation of village seeds stores, and (iii) laying down the foundation of
sustainable farmer participatory seed multiplication centers through the rehabilitation of
three seed multiplication centers. In addition, farmer capacity building and support to
extension delivery system.

Project Components

97.     The project had three components namely: i) provision of agricultural inputs, (ii)
rehabilitation of village seed stores and seed multiplication centers, and (iii) Project
management, monitoring and evaluation.

Component A: Provision of agricultural inputs and machinery:
98.     This component was aimed at increasing access to improved seeds, fertilizer, and
power tillage equipment. The component was to support the purchase of 3,000 metric
tons of fertilizer, 300 power tillers, 367 sine hoes, 367 seeders, 367 pedal rice threshers,
and 525tons of certified seeds. The intervention was to cover 10,000 hectares of cereals
(5000 hectares rice and 5,000 hectares early millet) during the cropping season of 2010)
and was expected to yield 6500 tons as output (5,000 tons rice and 1,500 tons early

                                            33
millet). The component was also to assure the training of farmers and support extension
workers with mobility and other indemnities to enhance delivery including Non
Governmental Organizations. It was also supposed to support mass sensitization
campaigns for the purpose of visibility and sustainability through- out the life span of the
project and after completion.

Component B: Rehabilitation of seed multiplication and post-harvest storage
infrastructures:
99.     This component was aimed at supporting (i) the increase and availability of
improved seeds through the strengthening of 3 seed multiplication centers in Sapu,
Giroba and Chamen respectively (i) increasing the capacity of and quality of post-harvest
cereal storage through the rehabilitation of 35 existing village seed stores. These
activities were expected to increase seed production capacity from 30 to 90 tons and
quality storage in the targeted districts from 0 to 350tons (capacity).

Component C: Project management, monitoring and evaluation:
100. The project was implemented by the PCU of the phased out Africa Emergency
Locust Project (AELP-GM). The component was supposed to support coordination,
monitoring and evaluation. Enhance the capacity of the project coordinating team to
effectively and efficiently implement the project through the collaboration of key
stakeholders such as National Agricultural Research Institute, Department of Agriculture,
The Organization of Non Governmental Organizations, Village Development
Committees, and other community based organizations.
These were the expected outputs of the project:
     20,000 farmers received improved seeds, fertilizer
     667 farmer groups received (10,000farmers) farm machinery
     Village based seed storage capacity increased to 350tons from zero
     Seed production and multiplication capacity increased from 30 to 90tons
     Rice and early millet production out increase by 6500metrci tons in 2010

Key results attained

101. Overall, the project development objective has been achieved through the
implementation of the activities highlighted below. The key result following the project
intervention in 600 villages across the ten districts in the six agricultural regions was an
increase in productivity per unit hectare of rice and early millet cultivation from 1metric
ton per hectare to 2.8metric tons per hectare during the 2010 cropping season (See
Appendix Tables 1a &1b).

102. In addition, there has been increase in area under production during 2011
cropping season due to the provision of tillage equipment and thus the reduction in time
and drudgery involved in those activities particularly faced by women farmers who are
the dominant producers of rice and early millet.




                                            34
Component achievements

103. Based on collaborative efforts between the PCU and stakeholders, the project
registered the following achievements leading to the attainment of the project
development objective:

Component A: Provision of agricultural inputs and machinery
   350 tons of upland rice (NERICA), 150 tons lowland rice, 25 tons early millet
     seeds has been procured and distributed to 20,000 farmers in 600 project
     intervention villages across the country from the beginning of the 2010 cropping
     season;
   3000 metric tons (1500tons NPK and 1500tons Urea) was distributed to 20,000
     farmers who benefitted from the seeds during the same period;
   300 power tillers & accessories, 367 sets of seeders, sine hoes and threshers each
     were also distributed to 667 farmer groups to enhance post-harvest processing and
     land tillage;
   300 power tiller operators were trained by the Agricultural Engineering Services
     during 2010, and a refresher training conducted in 2011 on the operation and
     maintenance of the machinery distributed coupled with vigorous monitoring and
     inspection to give technical guidance for the durability of the machines;
   Having revisited the annual work plan and budget at the end of 2011, procured
     labor savings devices, 22 rice milling, 10 coarse grain milling, 5 tractor drawn
     multi-crop threshers were also procured and distributed to 32 communities in five
     districts to improve post-harvest processing and reduce losses. The distribution of
     equipments was followed by the training of 80 operators on the operation and
     maintenance of milling and threshing machines. These equipments are also
     envisaged to generate income for farmers through sustainability mechanisms put
     in place at community level, whereby users are levied to raise resources for
     operation and maintenance.
   300 sets of power tiller spare parts has been procured and distributed to the 300
     communities that benefitted from the 300 power tillers distributed by the project,
   Additional equipment were provided for 230 villages to strengthen the capacity
     of farmers in the protection of their crops and produce such as 200 knap sack
     sprayers, 30 motorized sprayers, 2.5 tons of seed storage dust, 160 cartons of seed
     dressing chemicals, 230 sets of complete personal protective gears enhance
     safeguards against pesticides effects on human and environment.
   120 extension workers were trained on data collection and management and sets
     of data collection and management tools provided to enhance regional field staff
     who are producing timely, reliable and relevant data due to the GEAPP
     intervention;

Component B: Rehabilitation of 35 village seed stores and 3 seed multiplication
centers:
104. Under this component, 23 out of 35 villages’ seeds stores were improved and the
overall targeted output has been achieved and surpassed. The storage capacity at village
level was supposed to increase from zero to 350 tons but the project achieved 550 tons as

                                           35
a result of the twenty five seed stores rehabilitated/constructed. 12 out the twenty three
stores are new constructions;
     In addition, 230 wooden pallets were provided for the stores to enhance proper
        packing of produce and allow circulation of air as was not the case previously;
     23 sets of store record books and labels were also provided and 115 farmers
        trained (5 farmers from each store beneficiary village called stores management
        committees) on stores and stored products management to enhance proper storage
        of seeds and durability of the stores through the collaborative efforts of the Plant
        Protection Services;
     60 farmer trainers were also trained and certificated on the operation and
        maintenance of knapsack and motorized sprayers drawn from 60 beneficiary
        villages by the Plant Protection Services of the Department of Agriculture;
     180 farmers drawn from seed grower associations around the three seed
        multiplication centers were trained and certificated on seeds multiplication by
        National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI); this initiative by GEAPP is
        envisaged to complement the WAAPP as the later will complement the GEAPP
        based on the three seed centers, thus enhancing synergy and complementarity
        between the two sister projects.
     3 Seed multiplication centers were rehabilitated/constructed through the
        construction of permanent fencing, staff quarters, offices, stores, drying floors,
        drilling of bore holes, installing of solar system powered infrastructures, provision
        of 3 heavy duty (27KVA) generators as back up to ensure sustainable power
        supply for irrigation;
     Installed drip and sprinkler irrigation distribution system covering 20 hectares to
        enhance year round production and multiplication of improved seeds for farmers;
     40 sets of beds and mattresses were procured and installed at Chamen Seed
        Multiplication center female and male dormitories for the accommodation of
        farmer seed grower trainees;
     3 sets of computers, printers and office furniture were provided for the three seed
        centers;

Component: C: Project management, monitoring and evaluation:
105. Overall the project has been managed in line with the grant agreement and as a
result the rating has been consistently satisfactory as indicated in regular World Bank and
European Union supervision mission aide memoirs, and as manifested by the
beneficiaries in many forums through the electronic and print media etc. The project has
been audited and submitted timely reports in line with bank procedures and there has
never been any major audit issue. Audit recommendations were fully implemented.

106. The procurement plan has been fully implemented and financial management
procedures observed, and the project disbursement rate stand 98% of 5.3million Euros.
Overall bank safeguard policies were observed and no negative impact has so far been
reported as a result of interventions of this project. Therefore, the project has complied
with safeguards policies in accordance with indications in the Environmental and social
management frameworks. This has been testified in a recent environmental monitoring
and inspection report conducted by the National Environmental Agency facilitated by the

                                             36
GEAPP to project intervention sites in particular the construction sites where they
supervised the safe disposal of ASBESTOS roofing materials removed from existing
buildings rehabilitated by GEAPP at the three seed centers.

Outlined activities implemented under this component:
   30 motor cycles were provided for the Department of Agriculture to enhance
      mobility of extension workers;
   In 2010,10 NGOS were contracted to sensitize 600 project intervention villages
      countrywide about the project, a total of 60,000 beneficiaries were covered;
   The same NGOS also participated immensely during the distribution of inputs
      which ensured transparency and accountability;
   Increased the staff capacity of the PCU through several short-term trainings on
      financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, data
      management, stores and supplies management, administrative management and
      project management respectively (9 key staff were certificated at different
      recognized overseas training institutions) such as International Law Institute,
      RIPA International, JIMPA, MDI etc.;
   Visibility: the project has been very visible as there has been close collaboration
      with the media houses that covered most of the project activities. Documentaries
      were prepared and televised to that effect;
   1000 GEAPP calendars, 3000 printed T shirts, 500 leaflets were distributed, 50
      signboards, 10 bill boards, series of TV and radio panel discussions conducted
      covering 120 hours of airtime throughout the project lifespan both at community
      and national levels, photo albums, stickers bearing EU and WB logos etc.,
      distributed, has definitely helped in making the project one of the most visible
      projects in the country;
   Regular monitoring and evaluation reports were submitted which assisted
      management in improving and adjusting activities to enhanced efficiency and
      effectiveness;
   For the reinforcement of beneficiaries mechanisms for the purpose of
      sustainability, a nation- wide coverage of 600 villages have been covered by 10
      NGOS to sensitize beneficiaries more about sustainability;
   The project has launched an impact evaluation study, the report on which will be
      submitted on 30th March 2012
   A study has been conducted through the project for sustainable mechanism for the
      supply of seeds and fertilizer to food crop farmers to help Government address the
      issue of inputs available and accessibility to farmers.
   A consulting firm was hired for the design and supervision of the civil works
      component successfully completed.

   Outcomes:
    120 communities were introduced to rice cultivation as a result of the project
     intervention;
    Through the project, 300 communities set up village accounts and seed banks
     where proceeds generated from the revolving seeds, fertilizer and machinery
     provided by the project is saved;

                                          37
     70% of the project supported villages did not buy rice for consumption during
      after the 2010 bumper harvest for 9 months and had their own seeds planted for
      2011 cropping season as a result of GEAPP support;
     Village income increased due to the project intervention and as result,
      communities pledged to construct housing for the milling machines recently
      distributed by the project from the village accounts saving generated from the
      GEAPP supported inputs;
     Collaboration between stakeholders has been strengthened through the project,
      where NGOS , Government institutions and the PCU came together to ensure the
      successful implementation of the GEAPP;
     Lessons show that inputs distribution without the involvement of NGOS to ensure
      transparency and accountability is a high risk because the involvement of NGOS
      controlled the risk of beneficiaries not receiving actual quantities of inputs from
      the agricultural extension services as planned.

Conclusion

107. Overall the project has attained its global objective and did improve the livelihood
of 60,000 project beneficiaries in the ten most vulnerable districts in response to the then
soaring food price crisis of 2008, through the enhancement of their agricultural
production and productivity capacities. It has also laid down the foundation for a
sustainable year round production and multiplication of seeds, increased and improved
village seed storage capacities and trained lots of stakeholders as envisaged. 60% of the
total project beneficiaries who were women benefitted from the machineries distributed
by the GEAPP in 2010 and 2011.

Constraints

      The project duration was too short (eighteen months) and the activities
       implemented such as rehabilitation and construction works; were not meant for an
       emergency operation
      Cumbersome procurement administration procedures is not helpful to such
       emergency projects;
      Inadequate funds to cover more districts since there are thirty five districts in The
       Gambia, all of whom suffered the soaring food crisis, and were in need of similar
       support;
      Poor transport facilities at the disposal of the PCU hindered implementation to an
       extent since the vehicles being used where already five years old when the
       GEAPP started;
      The PCU encountered serious delays in the recruitment of independent auditors as
       a result of too much bureaucracy at the level of the national audit office who takes
       the lead in the recruitment exercise with low institutional capacity in this regard;
      Farmers encountered poor harvest during 2011 due to erratic rain fall causing a
       set back to the increased production registered through GEAPP intervention in
       600 villages across the country.



                                            38
      Lessons Learnt

    Farmers need support regarding the provision of agricultural inputs and technical
     guidance rather than monotonous training workshops since these will have direct
     impact on increasing productivity;
    Lessons were learnt that if farmers are supported with inputs, technical advice and
     guidance to implement sustainable mechanism for the utilization of those inputs,
     production and productivity is greatly improved. This has been visibly attested to
     by GEAPP;
    Collaboration with NGOS is more efficient, reliable and realistic compared to
     other civil service institutions who are faced with too much bureaucracy;
    Timely disbursement of funds facilitating timely launching of procurement
     activities is a pre-requisite to successful project implementation;
    Consolidation and motivating of PCU teams with previous World Bank project
     experience helps greatly towards project success rather than creating new teams
     for new projects;
    Continuous capacity building in line with changing situations is important in
     nurturing successful project implementation;
    Farmer sensitization and involvement greatly enhances success;
    Rapid replacement of project Task team leaders at World Bank level causes
     project implementation delays;
    Women farmer groups were more reliable and proactive in proper management of
     inputs provided by GEAPP, and are more organized and cooperative;

Recommendations

    The maintenance of        Task team leaders to ensure successful           project
     implementation;

    Reduce complexity in farmer supported projects and include more of input
     support;

    Prioritize supplementary irrigation in other bank-funded projects for The Gambia;

    Support continuous PCU capacity building of staff and motivating them to avoid
     brain drain.

    Empower the PCU teams in the recruitment process of auditors to minimize
     delays caused by the national audit office;

    Greatly reduce cumbersome project administrative procedures to ensure speedy
     implementation of projects;

    Provide funding for another phase of the project to consolidate and replicate the
     success in other districts of the country;


                                         39
Appendix
Appendix Table1a: Rice production (metric tons) by district -2010/2011 and 2011/2012 cropping season*
                      Beneficiaries                    Total area cultivated/ha      Production (tons)            Yield (tons/ha)
 District
                      2010/2011        2011/2012       2010/2011    2011/2012        2010/2011    2011/2012       2010/2011       2011/2012
 Niani                     1,400            3,557           44.00        265.80          120.00            23.2          2.73          0.09
 Wuli east and
 west                      1,600            3,457          500.00      1,026.35        1,500.00          895.53          3.00          0.87
 Sandu                      900             2,250          328.00        257.00          684.00          197.21          2.09          0.77
 Lower Nuimi               3100             8510           169.00      1,475.00          477.00          271.71          2.82          0.18
 Upper Nuimi               4000             3743           300.00        761.00          900.00     1,167.45             3.00          1.53
 Niamina east              2000             1077           725.00        476.50        1,720.00          125.29          2.37          0.26
 Foni Bintang              2000              521           187.00        188.00          540.00           56.83          2.89          0.30
 Foni Bondali              1000              438           156.00        295.50          453.00           68.06          2.90          0.23
 Foni Kansala              1000              133           256.00         84.25          768.00           32.13          3.00          0.38
 Jarra west                2000             2,346          605.00        979.85        1,785.00          409.19          2.95          0.42
 Women
 Federation                1,000               0              500                0     1,250.00              0           2.50            0
 Total                   20,000            2,6032        3,770.00      5,809.25       10,197.00   3246.60                2.83          0.50
Source: PCU, GEAPP.
Note: One more district was covered bringing the total number of districts to ten. This table takes into
account only direct beneficiaries.
*Includes only direct beneficiaries. In 2010/2011 the project had an additional 20,701 indirect beneficiaries
who received inputs from direct beneficiary farmers.

Appendix Table1b: Early Millet Production (metric tons) by district-2010/2011 and 2011/2012 cropping
season
                       Beneficiaries                   Total are cultivated/ha       Production (tons)            Yield (tons/ha)
 District
                       2010/2011        2011/2012      2010/2011     2011/2012       2010/2011    2011/2012       2010/2011       2011/2012
 Niani                        400            2055          252.00        185.00         191.00           10.03           0.76          0.05
 Wuli east and west                0               0         0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00                -           -
 Sandu                        150             766        1,126.00        219.50         144.00       104.35              0.13          0.48
 Lower Nuimi                  800            2473        1,153.00     1,084.00        1,378.00           29.36           1.20          0.03
 Upper Nuimi                  500            1628        1,370.00        716.00       2,671.00           36.08           1.95          0.05
 Niamina east                 100                  0       321.00          0.00         379.00            0.00           1.18             -
 Foni Bintang                      0               0         0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00                -           -
 Foni Bondali                 110             228           69.00        133.60          28.00            80.7           0.41          0.60
 Foni Kansala                      0               0         0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00                -           -
 Jarra west                   185             853          218.00        315.50         414.00       158.82              1.90          0.50
 Women Federation                  0               0            0            0               0               0              0             0
 Total                      2,245           8,003           4,509     2,653.60        5,205.00       419.34              1.07          0.29




                                                                    40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.    Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions from 2010 to 2011

2.    African Development Bank and the World Bank Joint Country Assistance Strategy
      (2008-2011).

3.    Completion Report on The Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project, February
      2012.

4.    Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project. Seed Production and Distribution
      Plan, March 2010.

5.    Gambia Emergency Agricultural Production Project, Project Paper, December 29 2009.

6.    Republic of Gambia, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2007-2011).

7.    Republic of The Gambia, Initiative of Soaring Food Prices. Final Report Situation
      Assessment and Country Action Plan, November 3rd 2008




                                           42
                                                                                                   TH E GA M B I A
                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                    LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA                                            LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA                                                THE
                                                                                    “DIVISION? HEADQUARTERS                                          “DIVISION? BOUNDARIES                                               GAMBIA
                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                    RIVERS


                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                       17°W                                                                            16°W                                                       15°W                                                                14°W


                14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14°N
                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                         Kaolack                                                                      0       10     20         30    40 Kilometers

                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                    S E N E G A L
                                                                                    Kaolack                                                                                           0            10            20        30 Miles



                                                                                                                                                    CENTRAL RIVER
                                       CITY OF                                                                                                        D I V I S I O N Sukuta
                                       BANJUL
                  KANIFING                                                 NORTH BANK DIVISION                                      Farafenni                                   Janjanbureh
                M U N I C I PA L I T Y                          BANJUL                                                     b   ia
                                                                                                   Kerewan             Ga m                 Mansa
                                          Kanifing
                                                                                                                                            Konko                                                           Diabugu     UPPER RIVER
                                                                                                 LOWER RIVER                                                                                        Ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                         mb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DIVISION
                                                          Brikama                                  DIVISION                                                                                                ia              Basse Santa Su
                 ATLANTIC                                           WESTERN
                                                                                                              Kalagi
                   OCEAN                                            DIVISION                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                    Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                    Kartung                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolda

                                                                                                                                                                  S E N E GAL
                13°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13°N
                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                   Bignona
                                                                                          To
                                                                                       Bignona
NOVEMBER 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33409R
                                                                                                                                                                             GUIN E A-B IS S AU
                       17°W                                                                            16°W                                                       15°W                                                                14°W
