Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:   19959 UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18.29 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
KIEV PUBLIC BUILDINGS ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
December 28, 1999
Energy Departrnent
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = hrivnya, abbr. UAH (from September 2, 1996)
US$1 = 4.5 hrivnyas (as of November 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B/C           Benefit to Cost
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CO2           Carbon Dioxide
DH            District Heating
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESCO          Energy Service Company
ESMAP         Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FRR           Financial rate of Return
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GPN           General Procurement Notice
HMSAP         Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
LPG           Liquified Petroleum Gas
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NO,           Nitride Oxides
NPV           Net Present Value
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
VAT           Value-Added Tax
Vice President: Mr. Johannes Linn, ECAVP
(Acting) Country Director: Ms. Lily Chu, ECCI1I
Energy Director: Mr. Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Task Team Leader: Ms. Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG



UKRAINE
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective                                              2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators         2
B. Strategic Context                                                          3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices   5
C. Project Description Summary                                                7
1. Project components                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project        7
3. Benefits and target population                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                        8
D. Project Rationale                                                          13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection            13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                               13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design              14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                      15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                           15
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                   16
1. Economic                                                             16
2. Financial                                                             18
3. Technical                                                            20
4. Institutional                                                         20
5. Social                                                               21
6. Environmental assessment                                             22
7. Participatory approach                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                   24
1. Sustainability                                                       24
2. Critical risks                                                       25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                       25



G. Main Loant Conditions                                                     26
1. Effectiveness conditions                                            26
2. Conditions for negotiations                                         26
3. Agreements to be reached during negotiations                        26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                              27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                             27
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary                                             28
Annex 2.  Project Description                                                29
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs                                            31
Annex 4.   Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                     32
Annex 5.  Financial Summary and Assumptions for the Financial Analysis       37
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                          40
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                    41
Table Al.     Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule                   42
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review          43
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                  45
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule                             46
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File                                          47
Annex 9.   Social Assessment                                                 48
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits                                     53
Annex 11. Country at a Glance                                                54
Map IBRD 30087



Page 1
UKRAINE
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: December 28, 1999                            Task Team Leader: Carolyn Gochenour
(Acting) Country Director: Ms. Lily Chu            Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: UA-PE-55739                            Program Objective Category: EN
Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: SIL                            Program of Targeted            [ ] Yes  [X] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan    [  Credit    [  Guarantee         [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 18.29
Proposed terms:                       []   Multi-currency  [X]  Single currency, specify: US dollar
Grace period (years):  6         []  Standard        [ ]  Fixed        [XI   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 18
Commitment fee: 0.75% of
which 0.5% is
waived
Front end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Source:                                               Local            Foreign            Total
World Bank                                             4.1               14.2              18.3
Kiev City State Administration                         10.0              0.1               10.1
Swedish Government                                                       2.0               2.0
.~~~~3.
Total       14.1              16.3              30.4
Borrower: Ukraine
Responsible agency: Kiev City State Administration
Estimated disbursements                  2000     2001     2002    2003    2004
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual   0.3       4.4      4.4      4.5      4.6
Cumulative    0.3      4.7      9.2      13.7    18.3
Project implementation period: 2000-2004    Expected effectiveness date: April 30, 2000
Expected closing date: June 30, 2005



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (See Annex 1):
The proposed Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project is designed to support the
Government's Comprehensive State Energy Conservation Program announced in August 1996. The
Program aims at achieving an annual savings by the year 2010 of about 109 million tons of coal
equivalent or about one third of total energy consumption of Ukraine in 1996 through targeted
investments. The energy conservation potential is expected to be achievable in relative terms from the
following sectors over the period: manufacturing - 57%, power industry - 21%, public services and
utilities - 12%, transport - 7% and agriculture - 3%.
Within the public services and utilities sector, a number of measures have been identified to improve
energy efficiency in public buildings which consume far more energy for heating and hot water than
public buildings in Western Europe. This is primarily due to the low quality of construction materials,
poor insulation, types of windows, and absence of measurement and control equipment for heating
substations in buildings. The main measures to improve energy use in the building sector include the
introduction of automation and control systems complemented with energy efficiency measures inside
buildings, including heat meters. The energy savings potential from such measures has been estimated to
be as high as 45% in buildings once retrofitted.
This first energy efficiency project in Kiev would improve energy use in key public buildings owned by
Kiev City State Administration through cost-effective measures. About 1,302 buildings, with a floor
space of about 5.1 million m2, would be retrofitted under the project. The proposed project would build
upon policy reforms already implemented in Kiev during the preparation of the recently-approved, Bank-
supported Kiev District Heating Improvement Project to allow for heat tariff setting at cost-recovery
levels in order to provide the proper economic signals to consumers to conserve energy as well as upon
reforms to improve the billing and collection of heat bills.
The key development objective of the proposed project is therefore to improve the energy efficiency of
key public buildings in Kiev through a package of technical improvements and sound heat tariff policies.
The project is expected to encourage the development of an energy efficiency market and related service
industry, capable of supplying and installing energy efficiency projects in Kiev with the potential to serve
other areas of Ukraine in the future. The project would further promote public awareness of the need for
more efficient use of energy in Kiev.
The key project performance indicators, as shown in Annex 1, include: (a) number and square meters of
buildings retrofitted; (b) building energy savings after retrofit ( Gcal and US dollars); (c) heat tariffs; (d)
settlement of the remaining balance of arrears of heating bills according to the restructured target for
2000; and (e) settlement of annual heating bills of project buildings.



Page 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: R98-39[Rev.]   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 21, 1998
The sector-related goal stated in the CAS is to support the restructuring of the public sector through more
commercial practices based on cost-recovery tariffs and greater efficiency, leading to the possibility for
private sector development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
Energy demand in Ukraine is characterized by high energy intensity of industrial output and the high
share of industry in final energy consumption. Energy intensity of official GDP increased 50% in the
1991-98 period reaching 3.1 kilogram oil equivalent/US$, a ratio that is several times higher than in
developed countries. Energy consumption per capita was about 2,600 kilogram oil equivalent (koe) in
1998, which is high compared to Western European standards.
Ukraine is heavily dependent on high-cost imported fuels. While Ukraine has vast coal resources,
important oil and gas resources and significant hydro, wood, peat and uranium resources, domestic energy
production, consisting of fossil fuels and primary electricity, represented only 45-50% of consumption in
the 1990-98 period, with 50-55% of energy consumption based on imported fuels. The main energy
import items include crude oil and oil products mostly from Russia, natural gas from Russia and
Turkmenistan and coal from Russia and Poland. The cost of fossil fuel imports reached about US$ 6.2
billion in 1993 and increased to US$ 7.5 billion in 1995 and to US$ 8.7 billion in 1996, creating a demand
for foreign exchange that the economy was unable to meet. The difference was financed by payment
arrears to Russia and Turkinenistan (the arrears were subsequently converted to debt) and balance-of-
payment support from the IMF and the World Bank. The cost of fossil fuel imports decreased to about
US$ 7.6 billion in 1997 and to about US$ 6.0 billion in 1998, mainly as a result of the decrease in imports
of gas and petroleum products.
Fuel prices have increased dramatically since 1991 and now approximate world market levels. The prices
of natural gas and crude oil reached levels of $80/1,000 m3 and $106/ton, respectively, during 1996 (but
have reduced somewhat during 1998-99), resulting in higher prices for essential services, especially
electricity and heat. Electricity, gas and coal prices are set by the central government, while district
heating (DH), LPG, heating oil, peat and wood prices are set by local governments. Household energy
prices cover 50-80% of costs, with household DH prices, outside of Kiev, currently covering 80% of costs
but are expected to cover 100% of costs in the near future. The difference between costs and prices is
covered by subsidies from the central and local govermments and/or by cross-subsidies from industrial to
household consumers (particularly for DH). In Kiev, DH prices currently cover costs.
Non-payment by customers became a major problem for electricity, gas and heat suppliers in 1994-95. A
number of government resolutions were issued since 1996, calling for businesses which fail to pay their
electricity bills to have their power supply cut off. Earlier in February 1995, the Government introduced
the Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program (HMSAP), which allows families whose monthly
payments for housing, water and sewerage, hot water, heating and other municipal services that exceed
15% of monthly income to apply for an allowance equal to the difference. Despite HMSAP, payment
discipline in the household sector remains poor as also is the case for the agriculture and budgetary
sectors. However, a Government initiative was undertaken during 1997 that now requires budgetary
organizations to restructure past debts for utility services over a five-year period 1998-2002 and to
implement line-item budgeting for utility services to better ensure payment of future bills. Kiev City has
complied with this initiative and formally agreed on a restructuring plan of its past debts for heat,



Page 4
electricity, natural gas, water supply and sewerage and has ensured the timely payment of new utility
bills, including heat.
Sector Institutions
The main government agencies in the sector are the Ministry of Coal Industry, the Ministry of Energy that
govems the electricity, oil and gas subsectors, and the State Committee for Energy Conservation, recently
subordinated to the Ministry of Energy. The State Committee for Housing and Communal Services also
plays a role in overseeing municipal-owned DH enterprises, which are regulated by their municipal
owners. In 1994-95. the Government implemented a corporatization program in the oil, gas and power
subsectors, with the long-term objective of privatizing most of the assets and activities except those that
are considered of strategic importance. The Cabinet of Ministers also has approved a privatization plan of
state-owned, joint-stock energy generating and distribution companies, whereby investment competitions
could be conducted after passage of a law regulating investors' activities. The corporatization program of
the coal industry was started in 1996, parallel with a program to close uneconomic mines.
Energy Sector Strategy
The "Concept for tlhe Development of the Energy Sector of Ukraine for the Period up to 2010," prepared
in 1993, spelled out the following main directions for Ukraine's long-term energy strategy: (a) the
development and implementation of a policy that promotes energy savings; (b) economically and
environmentally justified utilization of domestic energy sources; (c) restructuring of the economy to
reduce the energy intensity of production; and (d) increasing reliance on alternative (renewable) energy
sources.
In early 1994, the Parliament passed a Law on Energy Conservation, providing economic incentives for
investments in energy conservation. Specifically, it calls for the establishment of national and local extra-
budgetary funds, based on special taxes on coal and on penalties for inefficient energy use by industrial
enterprises, to support energy savings initiatives. In order to prepare the necessary regulations and to
coordinate the implementation of the Law, a State Committee for Energy Conservation was established in
July 1995. A long-term Comprehensive State Energy Conservation Program was announced in August
1996. As highlighted in the Conservation Program, the main impediment to implementation of the
Energy Conservation Program is the lack of investment funds.
In mid- 1995, the Govemment prepared and submitted to the Parliament the "National Energy Program of
Ukraine up to 2010." The "Program" was approved by the Parliament in early 1996 and follows the main
directions established in the "Concept."
Bank Involvement in Ukraine's Energy Sector
The Bank has been involved in the Ukrainian energy sector since early 1992. An Energy Sector Review
(Report No. 11646-UA) was issued in 1993, leading to an Energy Strategy Conference held in Kiev in
June 1993. During the Conference, an understanding was reached that the Bank's lending operations
should aim primarily at the rehabilitation of existing assets rather than construction of new facilities
where existing capacity is sufficient, while supporting initiatives that increase the financial and operating
autonomy of enterprises and foster competition. After the Conference, the Govemment, assisted by the
Bank and other multi- and bilateral agencies, started the preparation of a number of projects. Energy
efficiency and district heating investments were added to the agenda in 1995. The Bank is currently
supporting a number of operations, including a Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
(Ln. 3865-UA), a Coal Pilot Project (Ln. 4016-UA), a Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 4118-UA), and
a Kiev District Heating Improvement Project (Ln. 4324-UA).



Page 5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project aims at addressing the sector issues by:
(a) supporting the implementation of a policy that promotes energy savings and reduces the demand for
high-cost energy imports, (b) facilitating the implementation of measures within the public services to
improve energy efficiency in heating systems, such as introduction of automation and control systems at
consumers and energy efficiency measures inside buildings, (c) supporting cost-recovery tariffs and
improving payment discipline of energy bills by the municipal budgetary sector; and (d) providing
investment funds, the lack of which has been highlighted as the main impediment to implementation of
energy efficiency measures.
In shaping the strategy which underpins the investment program, the project considered a number of
strategic choices related to location, type, ownership and coverage of buildings, number and type of
energy efficiency measures and implementation approach:
(a)   Location. Ukraine has decided to undertake this first Bank-supported energy efficiency project in
the capital city of Kiev, in order to reduce energy use in the nation's capital in large public users of
district heating, thereby supporting a package of demand side measures to complement the supply side
measures in district heating boiler houses and networks under the Bank-financed Kiev District Heating
Improvement Project, initiated during early 1999.
(b)  Industrial, residential or public buildings. Ukraine has decided to direct investments under this
first project to key public sector buildings rather than focus on industrial or residential buildings.
Industrial buildings are being addressed under the complementary EBRD-supported UkrEsco Project,
already approved by EBRD's Board and which is in process of being initiated, and EBRD has a
comparative advantage in addressing investment projects in the industrial sector. Ukraine has decided not
to include residential buildings in this project, given the slow experience to-date in implementing
residential energy efficiency projects in other countries in Eastern and Central Europe which involves
investments in a large number of smaller buildings as well as issues related to privatization of buildings,
formation of building management organizations, establishment of credit lines and affordability by
households. The types of public sector buildings in the program would include schools, hospitals,
kindergartens, cultural centers and administration buildings.
(c)   Ownership of buildings. Ukraine has decided to include public buildings in the project that are
under the ownership of the City of Kiev but not to include state-owned public buildings located in Kiev,
given the current difficulty in identifying adequate counterpart funds in the state budget. Kiev City State
Administration has been judged to have the capability and has confirmed its intention.to provide
counterpart funds for its public buildings to be included in the project.
(d) Coverage of buildings. Ukraine has decided that the investment program be based on 100%
coverage of all schools, kindergartens, hospitals, cultural centers and administration buildings in Kiev
under the ownership of Kiev City. Kiev City has confirmed that all public buildings are expected to
continue to operate in the future and is already adding buildings to this stock.



Page 6
(e)   Energy efficiency measures. Ukraine has evaluated 46 possible retrofit measures and selected 9
measures which were estimated to provide high economic rates of return and could be implemented
quickly and easily. The following cost-effective measures have been selected as the highest priority for
implementation: (a) building heat meters; (b) substation automation; (c) weather-stripping; (d) radiator
reflectors; (e) ceiling fans; (f) faucet flow restrictors; (g) low-flow shower heads; (h) hot water heat
exchangers; and (i) riser balancing valves. All buildings would be equipped with heat meters and new
substations in order to adequately measure and react to the various retrofit measures undertaken. Without
new substations, energy savings measures will only result in overheating of the buildings. Additional
energy saving measures would be selected after individual building energy audits are undertaken on the
basis of specific building needs and characteristics from among the remaining 7 retrofit measures. Other
energy-saving measures would be considered for inclusion during implementation if circumstances
change such that these other measures are shown to be economically justified.
(f)  Implementation approach Ukraine has decided to employ a phased approach to implementation,
with installation of equipment and measures to be carried out initially in a limited number of buildings
which would allow for the identification and adjustment for necessary modifications in subsequent
phases. The initial phase would also establish the scheduling, technical audit, physical installation and
acceptance processes which would be utilized in the larger subsequent phases. The first year's investment
program would include retrofits of about 30 buildings and about 50 heat meters inunretrofitted buildings.
When implementation capacity has been sufficiently developed, the annual amount of retrofits is expected
to increase to about 300 buildings per year over the remaining four years of the project.



Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category     Cost (US$M)   % of    Bank-         % of
Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)   financing
Energy Efficiency Improvements in  Physical         21.9        72.0      18.0       82
Buildings, excluding Heat Meters
Heat Meters                       Physical          4.3         14.2       0          0
Technical Audits and Design       Project            1.9        6.3        0          0
management
Institutional Support:
Implementation Support          Project            1.7         5.5       0           0
management
Public Awareness Campaign       Other              0.1         0.4       0           0
Training and Equipment          Institution        0.1         0.3       0           0
building
Kiev Social Assistance Support  Institution        0.1         0.3        0          0
building
Financial Audits                  Other              0.1        0.3       0.1        100
Front-End Fee                     Other              0.2        0.6       0.2        100
Total      30.4       100.0      18.3        60
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project builds on the existing policy framework, which, in Kiev, has already moved towards full
recovery of the costs of heating and hot water services to ensure proper signals to energy consumers,
thereby encouraging energy conservation. Maintenance of cost-recovery heat and hot water tariffs is a
requirement under the complementary Bank-supported Kiev District Heating Improvement Projectand
would be reinforced under this project. Proper billing and payment discipline would be further supported
through the Kiev District Heating Improvement Project which would provide heat meters to heat
consumers and support billing of heat and hot water services based on meter readings instead of being
based on norms. The proposed project would further support improvement of payment discipline of heat
and hot water bills through requirements to ensure the elimination of past arrears and timely settlement of
future heat bills by Kiev City. In addition, the Bank's new change initiative on reporting requirements
and project accounting will strengthen financial management capabilities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The proposed project would have significant economic, financial and environmental benefits
for Ukraine, public building users and Kiev City State Administration from the improved energy
efficiency of the public buildings and their heating systems. The increased efficiency in energy use
would reduce net energy requirements for the same level of service in the retrofitted buildings. This
would reduce fuel imports of gas by about 41 million rn3 and of mazut by about 8,000 tons annually,
representing foreign exchange savings for Ukraine of about US$ 2.9 million per year. The improved
quality of heat supply would also save users of the buildings from supplementary heating and improve
their level of satisfaction. The reduced consumption for the same (or improved) level of service would
also mean lower energy bills for paying building owners. Lower fuel consumption would also lower air
pollutant emission levels of the order of 259 tons of NO,, 181 tons of SO2 and 66,633 tons of CO2 per
year.



Page 8
Additional benefits would occur from the improvement of the service level and reliability of space heating
and hot water service in public buildings. A major part of the public buildings are schools and hospitals.
Deficient heating and insulation of school buildings creates considerable discomfort in classrooms in winter,
increasing sickness rates, and undernines teaching and learning. The causes include deficient insulation of
windows, doors and walls, too large windows, inappropriate room temperatures (either too low or too high)
in general, and low temperatures in classrooms above basements, on top floors and in building corners.
Similar discomfort levels are constraining the provision of health care in polyclinics and hospitals. The
energy efficiency improvements are expected to alleviate conditions of underheating that exist due to the
current heat production capacity constraints, thereby improving users' comfort and working conditions in the
public buildings by raising the overall quality of energy use and by securing sufficient indoor air quality
through better control of mechanical air handling units.
The energy efficiency program would also have direct and positive employment impacts for retrofit
installation work. It is assumed that the ratio of Ukrainian to Westem labor ranges from 5:1 to 8:1,
depending on the efficiency measure. While it is not clear to what extent energy retrofit services exist in
Kiev, such capabilities are likely to develop. The resulting employment impacts are estimated at 64 full-
time equivalents for years 2-5 of the project. It is expected that domestic suppliers and manufacturers of
equipment will also develop, but associated employment has not estimated.
Target Population. The foreign exchange savings from the project would benefit the general population
through an improvement of the Ukrainian economy. The project investments would directly benefit the
following groups: (a) children, students and teaching personnel in kindergartens and primary schools; (b)
patients, doctors, nurses and other medical personnel in polyclinics and hospitals; (c) employees in
hospital administration and support buildings; and (d) visitors and staff in art galleries, museums and
theaters.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower would be Ukraine (represented by the Ministry of Finance) which would on-lend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to Kiev City State Administration for public buildings under its jurisdiction.
The sub-loan to Kiev City State Administration would be provided with a 12-year maturity (reflecting the
period during which sufficient energy savings would be achieved to allow repayment of the sub-loan)
including a 5-year grace period on repayment of principal (reflecting the expected implementation period
of the project). In accordance with usual practice, the Ministry of Finance would mark-up the on-lending
interest rate by up to 1% for its costs of administration. The foreign exchange risk of the sub-loan would
be bome directly by Kiev City State Administration.



Page 9
The Bank loan of US$ 18.29 million would cover about 60% of project costs or 72% of project costs net
of taxes and duties. Excluding a US$ 2 million grant, amounting to about 7% of project costs net of taxes
and duties, to be provided by the Swedish Government, Kiev City State Adrministration would cover the
remaining 21% of project costs as well as the taxes (VAT of 20%) and import duties (about 2%). As a
condition for negotiations, Kiev City State Administration submitted a plan showing its counterpart
contribution to the project cost would be provided from own resources, which are judged to be sufficient
for carrying out the Project.
The costs of heat meters which Kiev City has been installing in the public buildings included in the
project (UAH 14 million) during 1998 and 1999 would be considered as part of its contribution to the
project cost. As of October 1, 1999, 613 heat meters have been installed in educational buildings, 70 in
health protection institutions and 30 in cultural organizations.
Implementation Arrangements
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established within Kiev City State Administration to be
responsible for implementing the key project functions including: (a) screening individual buildings and
scheduling the priority objects for the first and each subsequent year's programs; (b) developing energy
auditing and technical design procedures; (c) contracting suitable organizations to perform energy audits
and technical designs; (d) preparing technical specifications and bidding documents; (e) tendering,
contract supervision and final inspection; (f) training of building managers in operations and maintenance;
(g) disbursement requests, financial management, project accounting and reporting; (h) monitoring and
verification of energy savings; (i) conducting a public awareness campaign; and (j) monitoring Kiev City's
payment of past and current heat bills.
Local consultants and design institutes would be retained by the PIU to assist with the screening,
preparation of technical audits and detailed designs, where required. Foreign consultants would assist the
PTU during the project period in the areas of project management, technical assessment, procurement,
accounting, financial management and disbursements and would, during the initial phases, provide on-
the-job training for technical auditors and design consultants.
The project would be implemented over the five-year period 2000-2004.
Status of Preparation of Energy Audit Procedures, Designs, Technical Specifications and Bidding
Documents. Draft energy audit procedures have been designed to screen and select buildings qualified
for the installation of measures and to specify the types and quantities of applicable measures in the
buildings, including target energy consumption after rehabilitation. The audit procedures would be
tested and refined during the initiation phase of the project by performing 10 sample energy audits with
the foreign consultants' assistance. The 10 buildings would be selected from a list of 86 buildings, of
which 30 buildings are scheduled for the first year's implementation program.
Draft design principles have been prepared by the Kiev Research and Design Institute for Residential
and Civil Construction (KievZNIIEP). The consultants have prepared 3 typical designs for each of the 7
different sizes of heat substations, which are the key energy efficiency measures to be implemented.
These typical designs have been coordinated with the respective authorities to ensure their compatibility
with the building code (SNiP), and the designs have been discussed with and approved by the district
heating enterprise, Kievenergo. The designs have subsequently been submitted to the Bank for its review
and comments. The draft designs are satisfactory to the Bank.



Page 10
Draft typical technical specifications have been developed as part of the feasibility study. Specifications
were developed for:  radiator reflectors; weatherstripping (3 types); heat substations; low-flow
showerheads; faucet flow restrictors; heat meters; hot water heat exchangers and ceiling fans. The draft
typical specifications were found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
The precise requirements for quantities and sizes of energy efficiency equipment for the 86 buildings
included in the first year's program would be determined during the detailed energy audits which would
be performed during the initiation phase prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan. After the energy audits
are completed, the bidding documents would be prepared. Therefore, as a condition of effectiveness of
the Loan, Kiev City State Administration would submit draft bidding documents for the first group (30)
of buildings to be addressed by the Project during the first year of implementation.
Procurement. Kiev City State Administration has limited experience in international procurement. Its
PIU would therefore be assisted by experienced foreign implementation and procurement advisors for at
least the first three years of implementation.
The building retrofits would be procured under supply and install contracts for the majority of the energy
efficiency measures in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996 and September 1997). For a smaller share of the energy efficiency measures,
mainly during the first two years of the project, the procurement would be implemented by using separate
contracts for goods supply and works in order for Kiev City and the contracting industry to gain
experience for the more complicated supply and install procurement method that would be used later on.
The separate works contracts to be implemented under national competitive bidding procedures would
utilize the Bank's regional standardized bidding documents for small works.
Local contractors alone or in joint ventures with international firms are likely to win some of these
contracts. In the beginning, the PIU will arrange seminars for the participating firms to explain
requirements for preparation of bids and procurement procedures. Based on experience in other energy
efficiency projects, it is expected that the implementation capacity of the potential local contractors and
the willingness of foreign contractors to participate in large contracts would be limited in the beginning.
Therefore, the size of the contracts issued, at least in the first years, would not be too large. The number
of contracts to be financed by the Bank is estimated to be about 28.
The technical audits and retrofit designs, as well as the heat mete:rs, which would be financed by Kiev City
out of its own funds, would be procured by the PIU in accordance with Kiev City's procurement
procedures. The Public Awareness Campaign and Social Assistance Support consultancies would be
procured by the PIU in accordance with the procurement requirements of the Swedish Government.
Financial audits, which would be financed by the Bank, would be contracted by using the least-cost
selection method (LCS). The procurement arrangements and procurement plan are shown in Annex 6.
Disbursement. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign goods,
100% of local goods (ex-factory), and 80% of other goods obtained locally; (b) 80% of works, (c) 100%
of foreign goods, 100% of local goods (ex-factory), 80% of other goods obtained locally, and 80% of
works under supply and install contracts; (d) 100% of incremental audits; and (e) 100% of the front-end
fee. Kiev City has expressed a preference for disbursement against standard Bank documentation rather
than disbursement based on project management reporting on a quarterly basis. Only goods contracts of
up to US$ 300,000 equivalent, works contracts of up to US$ 500,000 equivalent, supply and install
contracts up to US$ 500,000 equivalent and auditing contracts up to US$ 50,000 equivalent would be
made against statements of expenditures (SOE). The supporting documents for these contracts would not
be sent to the Bank but would be retained by Kiev City for inspection by visiting Bank missions and by
external auditors.



Page 11
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance small costs of the project, a Special
Account in US dollars could be established in a foreign commercial bank by the Ministry of Finance for
Kiev City State Administration in the amount of up to US$ 500,000. Funds in the Special Account
would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the project. During the early stage of the
project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$ 250,000. However, when
the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$ 5 million, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 500,000.  Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum size of a disbursement
application for direct payment would be 20% of the current deposit to the Special Account (US$ 50,000
or US$ 100,000).  During negotiations, agreement was obtained regarding the arrangements for
establishing and operating the Special Account.
Accounting, Financial Management and Auditing. In order to provide accurate and timely information
regarding project sources and uses of funds, the PITU would establish, not later than March 31, 2000, and
thereafter maintain a project accounting system, as a separate system from the City's overall accounting
system. The PIJ would have full responsibility for project accounting but would work in close
cooperation with the City's Finance Department. Project management reports would be designed in
accordance with the Bank's new loan administration change initiative (LACI). The project financial
statements would be prepared in accordance with international accounting standards and audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report would also contain a separate opinion on the
statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized, and on the operation of the Special Account.
The format for recording of accounting information for the project financial statements and the internal
control system have been discussed and agreed with Kiev City, and the present accounting system, with
minor revisions, has been judged to be able to produce the data needed for project accounting. The
outcome of the review of Kiev City's financial management systems and the draft format for project
financial management reports are included in the Project Implementation Plan.
Energy Savings Verification. At present, baseline information on actual energy consumption by each
building is not available, since buildings are generally not equipped with heat meters. In addition, heat
supply is currently rationed due to inadequate production capacity in Kiev but will be gradually improved
during the next 5 years under the upcoming Kiev District Heating Improvement Project. Even if heat
consumption were currently being measured, changing energy use patterns would render the present heat
consumption figures unsuitable to be used as the baseline for comparison with performance after retrofit
measures are installed.
Since energy savings cannot be precisely measured, they would rather be estimated during the detailed
technical audit of each building based on engineering calculations. The specific building energy
consumption calculated during the technical audits would also be compared with the consumption
estimated from norms during the feasibility study phase to verify the consultant's assumptions of energy
use and benefits. Thus, for each building there will be an energy consumption target. Actual
consumption after improvements would be compared with the target as part of the evaluation and
verification process. Draft monitoring and verification procedures have been developed during the
preparation phase and are described in detail in the Project Implementation Plan.
Supervision and Reporting. As this is the first Bank-supported building energy efficiency investment
project in Ukraine, a significant supervision effort would be required particularly during the first two
years when energy audits and procurement practices would be established and confirmed. Therefore, it is
planned that about 15 staff-weeks of effort each year for the first two years and about 12 staff-weeks
each year thereafter would required for supervision.



Page 12
The PIU would prepare semi-annual progress reports, with inputs from Kiev City State Administration,
which would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each semester. The progress
reports would include, among other things, information regarding: (a) overall progress of the project, (b)
costs for each contract and for the total project, (c) procurement actions, (d) financial performance of the
PIU, (e) compliance with covenants under the legal agreements, (f) issues affecting project
implementation and (g) performance monitoring indicators. The first progress report covering the period
ending December 31, 2000 would be sent to the Bank by February 15, 2001. An outline of the proposed
format, including the performance indicators, has been discussed and agreed. The proposed perfornance
monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 1 and in the Project Implementation Plan.
The Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the project and review the report with the Bank not later
than March 31, 2002. In addition to the topics covered under the semi-annual progress reports, the mid-
tern review would include an in-depth review of the economic viability of the project components, based
on actual costs and benefits achieved to-date, and of the overall institutional and financial viability of the
PIU. Based on the outcome of the mid-term review, measures would be taken to ensure the efficient
completion of the project. The timing of the mid-term review was agreed during negotiations.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the Bank with inputs from the PIU
and Kiev City State Administration not later than six months after completion of the project. The ICR
would evaluate how well the objectives of the project have been met, the overall performance of the
project, the performance of the PIU and lessons learned. During negotiations, agreement was obtained
regarding the reporting and monitoring requirements of the project.



Page 13
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In addition to the various energy efficiency measures considered described previously, the project design
considered a number of possible altematives for the institutional arrangements for implementing the
project, which initially was to include public buildings owned by Kiev City State Administration as well
as the Ministries of Health and Education. The alternatives considered included: (a) creatingPIUs within
the owning budgetary organizations; (b) creating a new body outside of Kiev City State Administration
and the concerned ministries, which could later be transformed into an energy service company (ESCO)-
type organization; (c) utilizing the ESCO to be established for the EBRD-supported UkrEsco Project
focused on energy efficiency in industrial buildings also for the purposes of this project; (d) creating a
body within existing public structures, acting on a contractual basis for Kiev City State Administration
and the concerned Ministries; or (e) utilizing the key existing heating utility in Kiev (Kievenergo).
After the Ministries of Health and Education dropped out of the project due to difficulties in identifying
adequate counterpart funds in the state budget, it was decided to create a PIU within Kiev City as the most
straightforward and expeditious way to implement the project. Creating a new public sector organization
outside of Kiev City was ruled out as the Government is in process of reducing the size of the public
sector and also since it was not possible to secure a grant from the donor community to support a separate
public sector organization. The EBRD-supported UkrEsco organization was ruled out as it has not yet
effectively commenced its operation and would be focusing on EBRD's requirements initially. Similarly,
heating utilities were ruled out as introduction of demand side energy savings measures would reduce
their heat sales which would likely generate a low level of interest for successful implementation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Heat production capacity and  Ukraine Kiev District Heating      S               S
efficiency of heat supply in Kiev  Improvement Project (FY98)
Energy efficiency in residential    Russia Enterprise Housing    S                S
buildings                    Divestiture Project
Lithuania Energy                    S               S
Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project
Other development agencies
Energy efficiency in industrial    Ukraine UkrEsco Project (CY98)
buildings (EBRD)            I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory), N/A (Not Yet Applicable)



Page 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project would be the first Bank-financed investment project in Ukraine that is focused on demand
side measures designed to improve energy use in key public buildings.
During the preparation phase of the project, a demonstration project was implemented by Honeywell
under funding of the United States Department of Energy. The demonstration project included the
installation of weatherization measures and control measures/heat meters in four typical school buildings
in Kiev. School buildings of this type comprise 30% of the approximately 1,300 buildings selected for
inclusion in the project and represent 55% of the floor space and 34% of the energy efficiency potential.
The energy efficiency improvement estimated at the demonstration stage was compared with the
estimates in the feasibility study and were shown to be even higher than expected at 29% for the four
buildings versus the original estimate of about 23%, with a simple payback of about 3.3 years. The
demonstration project has shown that substantial energy savings can be achieved through a few simple
and cost-effective measures. The demonstration project has also been instrumental in promoting public
awareness.
The Bank's experience in implementing similar energy efficiency projects in Eastern and Central Europe
is somewhat limited to two projects in Lithuania and Russia focused mainly on residential buildings,
currently ongoing. The Lithuania project has shown that implementing energy efficiency investments in
residential buildings is a long and slow process, especially whe-re housing privatization is advanced and
there is a need to form homeowner associations and reach agreement with all households prior to project
start-up, establish and promote credit line facilities, and organize building-level energy audits and
contractors. The Lithuania project also included a small ($2.2 million) component to support energy
efficiency measures in schools in Vilnius and Kaunas. The Kaunas component has been implemented in
three schools and has resulted in considerably increased comfort levels, with energy savings currently
being monitored. This effort has confirmed that energy savings through investments directed at larger
buildings under single ownership can be achieved more quickly and easily.
The Russia project included a program of installing heat meters during the first year of the project in
selected residential buildings in order to establish baseline data on energy use. The installation of meters
before the retrofits showed that actual heat consumption was about 10-20% less than design values, which
was useful for designing subsequent phases. Another lesson learned is that utility companies typically do
not read meters, as billing has been based on norms with bills prepared by municipal house maintenance
organizations. Installation of meters must therefore be accompanied by support for utilities to change
their billing and meter reading practices in order for energy savings to be realized by the end-user. The
Russia project was able to reach agreement with the beneficiary municipalities to agree with their heat
utilities to base billing on meter readings. Also, establishment of clear steps for monitoring energy
savings were lacking up-front which required some time to develop during implementation.
These lessons were considered during the preparation period of the proposed project.



Page 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment and ownTership is demonstrated by the following:
(a) official request from the State Committee for Energy Conservation for an energy efficiency project;
(b) appointment of counterpart personnel by the State Committee for Energy Conservation and Kiev City
State Administration to work with the Bank and engineering consultants in the preparation requirements;
(c) establishment by Order No. 644 signed by the Prime Minister on November 6, 1997, of a high-level
Steering Committee, chaired by the Deputy Chairman, State Committee for Energy Conservation, and
including representatives of all the key agencies involved in the project, which actively directed the
preparation of the project;
(d) adjustment of heat tariffs to cost recovery levels in Kiev City during 1997;
(e) formal restructuring the past debts of UAH 182 million of heat bills, as well as other utility bills, owed
by Kiev City State Administration prior to January 1, 1998, of which all but UAH 21.8 million of past
heat bills have been settled, well in advance of the agreed timetable;
(f) payment of new heat bills received by Kiev City during 1998 and 1999 in a timely manner; and
(g) commencement by Kiev City State Administration, in advance of the project, of the program of
installing heat meters in public buildings, with 713 installations undertaken as of October 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement is regarded as important in supporting the development of priority investment
programs under the present conditions of severe resource constraints and in supporting the development
of an institution involved in the delivery of energy savings services. The Bank is well positioned to
respond to the opportunity and challenges posed by Ukraine today, by (a) providing capital needed to
support the much-needed energy savings investments until the energy sector is able to attract a sufficient
volume of private capital; (b) providing the lessons of its global experience in energy efficiency to help
Ukraine deal with the issues of design, implementation and adaptation of its energy savings program to a
larger scale nationwide; and (c) using the leverage of its lending and advisory capability to further and
accelerate the establishment of sustainable energy efficiency institutional mechanisms for eventual
privatization.



Page 16
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[XI Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 6.2 million and ERR= 20.2% with 54% certainty;
NPV=US$4.3 million and ERR=17.1% with a 75% certainty
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[XI Other: Distributive and risk analyses: With a 75% certainty, Equity Coefficient=23.7% of the
net benefits would help the poor and Fiscal Coefficient=7.1 1% of the net benefits would assist the
Government in the form of added fiscal revenue
A cost-benefit analysis was undertaken based on the economic costs, net of financial and fiscal transfers,
and the economic benefits, as measured by fuel import savings and the increase in consumers' willingness
to pay. Willingness to pay arises from the reduction in expenditures in the public buildings due to less
heat requirements.  Other benefits that were not included in the analysis would arise from  the
improvement in the quality of heat supply, improvement in the public building stock and increased health
of buildings' users. Also, non-quantifiable benefits would result from lower air pollution levels in
affected areas and from the generation of technical employment required for the design, fabrication and
installation of equipment.
For the purposes of the economic analysis, the project has been grouped into 7 types of buildings:
hospitals, polyclinics, administration, kindergartens, schools, theaters, and art galleries/museums. Each
type of building was subjected to a least-cost analysis, particularly for those energy saving measures that
were most suited technically and economically for each type of building, verifying in all cases that the
investments were the least-cost options. The economic analysis, in turn, shows that the proposed
mneasures generate sufficient benefits to justify their costs.
The overall energy efficiency program has a reasonable economic rate of return (ERR) of 20.2%, with a
net present value (NPV) of US$ 6.2 million at 1999 prices with a 10% discount rate and a 54% certainty.
However, with a 75% certainty, the project would achieve an NPV of at least US$ 4.3 million and an
ERR of 17.1%, which are very good and robust returns on the proposed investments. These results are
consistent with these types of energy efficiency projects which, for small expenditures, bring about
substantial energy savings and improvements in heating quality, with a large degree of certainty.
The table below summarizes the main results of the economic appraisal of the different building types in
descending order of their ERRs. The best projects are educational and health facilities, with schools
toping the list with an ERR of 39.5%. The fact that education and health are among the key social
priorities in Ukraine and that these activities are the main beneficiaries further reinforces the energy
efficiency program's relevance and attractiveness.



Page 17
Economic Project Indicators
Building Type                ERR (%)  ENPV (S million)
1. Schools                     39.5           5.28
2. Kindergartens               20.8           2.01
3. Hospitals                    19.6          0.70
4. Theaters                     18.7          0.06
5. Polyclinics                  15.6          0.21
6. Administration               10.5          0.01
7. Art Galleries/Museums        10.2          0.01
Total                          20.2           6.18
Net present values discounted to 1999 with a 10% discount rate.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis. Projects in Ukraine face a considerable degree of risk. Several of the
risks are associated with the macroeconomic and political uncertainties facing all transition economies.
Others are specific to the nature of the project, including the uncertainties related to the effects on the
existing heat utility. A risk analysis was carried out to examine the project risks and to estimate the
likelihood that these would have an adverse effect on the economic indicators of the project.
The sensitivity analysis examined how the ERR varies according to changes in key variables in the cost
and benefit streams. The results indicate that the proposed investments have attractive and robust
economic indicators, as only with very large increases in investment costs or substantial decreases in
benefits would the ERR fall to levels below the opportunity cost of capital of about 10%. For example,
more than a 42% increase in investment costs would be required before the ERR would fall below 10%.
Also, fuel prices would need to decline by more than 34% before the ERR would fall below 10%. The
project would have an ERR above 15% even if the increase in consumers' willingness to pay was not
considered. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in the figure below. The assumptions for the
economic analysis are elaborated in Annex 4.
1 00%                                      Investment 7 
,   75%.                        ----- Fuel Savings                 ...............
C
50%   -                                                  --Wilingne Ss to ,2y- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
25/   -    - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- -- - -         ---- --- --
0    0% -
C
0
0  -100%         .                          , /
2%        6%       10%        14%       18%       22%       26%       30%
Economic Rates of Return
Distributive Analysis. A distributive analysis was undertaken to determine how the cost and benefits
would be allocated among the different project stakeholders, specifically the poor and the Government.
Poor households, those in the lowest income quartile, would be expected to benefit from employment
opportunities for unskilled labor during the implementation period of the energy efficiency program and
receive a net increase in their incomes. The program would have a direct and positive employment
impact for retrofit installation work, resulting in additional employment for 64 full-time workers from



Page 18
year 2 to year 5 of the program. It is also expected that domestic suppliers and manufacturers of
equipment will experience an increase in the demand for their goods and services because of the program,
which would generate additional employment opportunities. However, this indirect employment gain has
not been estimated.
Low-income users of the educational and health facilities are also expected to benefit from the reduction
in supply shortages and improvement in supply reliability. Poor users cannot compensate for the poor
quality of heat as better-off users can by sending their children to better schools or by paying for better
health services. They therefore would experience significant personal gains as a result of the project,
since the project improves the educational and health services from better heat and hot water services.
The Government is also expected to benefit from the additional tax revenue generated by the project from
import duties, VAT on project expenditures and other taxes.
DH utilities are also expected to gain from the savings in fuel expenditures.
The distributive analysis shows that with a 75% certainty at least 23.7% of the net benefits would help the
poor and about 7.1% of the benefits would go to the Government.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ 3.7 million; FRR- 13.]1%
Financial Summary/Financing Plan. The total project cost 3s US$ 30.4 million, of which the World
Bank would finance US$18.3 million, about 60% of total project cost or 72% of total project cost net of
taxes and duties. The balance would be financed by Kiev City and the Swedish Government. The
financing plan is summarized in Table 5.1 in Annex 5.
Kiev City Cash Flow Analysis. The project cash flow analysis is presented in Table 5.2 in Annex 5. It
has been assumed that: (a) the heat tariff for budgetary organizations would increase by 5% per year in
real terms over the project period 2000-2004, (b) energy savings would amount to about 28% of current
usage which would be reached in 2005, and (c) the on-lending terms for the World Bank loan would
include a maturity of 12 years, with a 5-year grace period and an interest rate of about 7%, including a 1%
on-lending margin. With heat tariffs at these levels, Kiev City would generate sufficient cash from the
savings on heat bills to cover the annual debt service requirernents over a 7-year period after project
implementation and to provide a significant cash surplus.
It will be important to demonstrate that budgetary organizations of Kiev City State Administration are
actually paying their heating bills in order to achieve real financial savings. The recent decisions taken to
reschedule past arrears of heating bills as of January 1, 1998 in the amount of UAH 182 million for
repayment over the years 1998-2002 and to ensure adequate allocations in the budget of Kiev City State
Administration for payment of future heating bills are both timely and necessary to better ensure that
heating bills will be paid in a timely manner. As a condition for negotiations, Kiev City State
Administration was requested to settle its 1998 installment of past arrears of heating bills (UAH 29.1
million), and any other installments which fall due prior to Loan negotiations, according to schedule and
to ensure payment of all new heating bills received after January 1, 1998 in a timely manner. Kiev City
State Administration more than met these requirements by settling all but UAH 21.8 million of the past
arrears of UAH 182 million of heating bills and by paying new heating bills received after January 1,
1998 in a timely manner. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the remaining balance of
UAH 21.8 million of past arrears of heating bills would be settled by December 31, 2000. In addition,
agreement was obtained that Kiev City State Administration would ensure the settlement of future heating
bills for the buildings under the Project on a timely basis as a highest priority.



Page 19
Payment of heating bills for project buildings is primarily the responsibility of the rayon (district)
administrations of Kiev City. Priority of selection of schools, hospitals and other buildings after the first
year would be given to those buildings with the best payment performance.
In order to ensure that consumers are receiving the proper signals to conserve energy, it will be necessary
that Kiev City State Administration continue to regulate heat tariffs in the City of Kiev at cost recovery
levels. TheTefore, during negotiations, agreement was obtained that Kiev City State Administration
would regulate heat tariffs in the City of Kiev with the objective to cover the reasonable costs of heat
supply provided by the heat supply organizations.
Project Financial Analysis. The project would also have satisfactory financial benefits for Kiev City,
the owner of the public buildings, as a result of lower heating bills due to the lower heat requirements per
building. The financial analysis shows that the financial rate of return (FRR) would be above the cost of
capital for Ukraine, with the overall FRR of the project at about 13.1%, with a financial NPV of about
US$3.7 million. Overall, the proposed investment program appears financially sound. The calculation of
the NPV and FRR are presented in Table 5.3 in Annex 5.
The devaluation of the hryvnia in Fall 1998, followed by further adjustments, has had an adverse impact
on heat tariffs when expressed in US dollars. Prior to the devaluation of the hryvnia, the heat tariff for
budgetary organizations was US$18.5/Gcal, which has now decreased to about US$ 11.6/Gcal. However,
both the Kiev District Heating Improvement Project and this proposed project will require Kiev City to
adjust heat tariffs on a regular basis to cost-recovery levels. The anticipated future development of heat
tariffs shows a satisfactory financial viability for this project.
It has been assumed that the heat tariff for budgetary organizations, in US dollars, would increase by 5%
per year in real terms over the project period 2000-2004. With a discount rate of 10% and an expected
annual international inflation rate of 2.4%, the NPV would be US$ 3.7 million and the FRR would be
13.1%. Should heat tariffs increase by only 3% per year in real terms over the project period 2000-2004,
then the NPV would be US$ 1.9 million and the FRR would be 11.6%.
Of the 7 type of buildings considered for improvement, educational facilities are likely to have the highest
benefits, followed by hospitals. The fact that education and health are among the key social priorities of
Ukraine and that these activities are the main beneficiaries further reinforces the project's relevance and
attractiveness.
Fiscal Impact. The project would result in significant fiscal benefits for both the central government and
Kiev City State Administration, which would receive additional tax revenue generated by the project from
import duties, VAT on project expenditures, corporate income taxes and excise taxes. Domestic
suppliers, equipment manufacturers and contractors would generate additional tax revenue from the
increase demand for their goods and services because of the program. DH utilities would gain from the
savings in fuel expenditures, thus improving their financial performance, enabling them to pay corporate
taxes. The energy efficiency measures would improve productivity and the associated tax revenue due to
the positive impacts on health and working conditions due to the improved level of service and reliability
of space heating in public buildings. Kiev City State Administration would also benefit from reduced
heating bills for project buildings.



Page 20
3. Technical:
The technical solutions selected for building energy efficiency retrofits represent such technology that has
been customarily and successfully used for the purpose, also in East European and Former Soviet Union
countries. The designs will conform with Ukraine's health and technical standards. The cost data is based
on information frDm other similar projects in FSU countries, and the physical contingency used (10%), on
all items excluding the institutional support program, is considered adequate. Price contingencies for
local costs are based on expected price increases of 12% in 2000, 10% in 2001, 8% in 2002 and 6% each
year thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on an expected price increase of 2.4% per
year during the project period. To convert local prices to US dollar equivalents, it is assumed that the
divergence between local and foreign price escalation will be corrected by exchange rate adjustments over
the life of the project, resulting in the following exchange rates: UAH 4.22/US$ in 2000, UAH 4.57/US$
in 2001, UAH 4.87/TJS$ in 2002, UAH 5.08/US$ in 2003 and UJAH 5.26fUS$ in 2004.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agency and Project Management
The PIU would be established as a separate entity within Kiev City's administration. The PIU would be
headed by a Project Director, who will report to the Deputy Mayor of Kiev City State Administration
responsible for Finance. The PIU would comprise well-qua,lified technical as well as administrative
personnel. Local and foreign consultants would be retained to assist the PIU to implement the project.
As Ukrainian procedures introduced in accordance with Decree #414 dated May 5, 1997, do not allow the
establishment of a PIU prior to approval of Loan financing, a transitional solution would be put in place
to include the Project Director and some key local staff. As a zondition for negotiations, Kiev City State
Administration nominated the Project Director and key staff and prepared the organization structure for
implementation of the project. As a condition for effectiveness, Kiev City State Administration would
establish the PIU and appoint the Project Director and other technical and accounting personnel to the
PIU. During negotiations, agreement was also obtained that Kiev City State Administration would
maintain the PIU headed by a Project Director with adequate staff and assisted by consultants with
qualifications and experience under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
For a project involving scattered investments, the local staff of the PIU should be around 7 persons,
including the head of the unit, accountant, procurement officer, administrator, technical coordinator,
interpreter and secretary. The detailed terms of reference for the PIU staff have been discussed and
agreed with Kiev City. Kiev City would retain qualified persons to work together with the PIU in
prioritizing and scheduling the public buildings to be included! in the program. In addition to these, at
least during the first 18 months of implementation, 2-3 foreign advisors will be needed to assist with
overall project management, procurement, accounting, administration, technical matters and commercial
practices.
A Donors' Meeting was held in Kiev at the end of March 1998 to solicit interest from bilateral donors for
funding foreign consultants to support the PIU. Subsequently, the Govemment of Sweden pledged
support to cover the foreign consultancy requirements for the first 3 /2 years of the project in the amount
of about USS 2 million to be administered through its international development agency, Sida. Sida is
also assisting Kiev City to select and contract the team of Swedish consultants. The foreign consultants
were selected in early December 1999. The terms of reference for the foreign consultants have been
discussed and agreed and are presented in the Project Implementation Plan.



Page 21
The foreign consultants would provide support during the initiation phase as well as during
implementation. During the initial phase, the consultants would provide basic training to the PIU and
assist in establishing project management routines, finalizing energy auditing procedures, implementing a
financial management system and preparing the first year's procurement documents. The consultants
would include qualified experts in the fields of building construction management, energy auditing,
energy efficiency in buildings, project financial management and international procurement. During
implementation, the foreign consultants would provide continued assistance to the PIU in these fields and
shall work together with the PIU staff in Ukraine.
Local consultants and design institutes would be retained by the P1U to assist with the screening,
preparation of technical audits and detailed designs, where required.
5. Social:
A social assessment, to obtain feedback from users of public buildings on the provision heat and hot
water, building insulation and energy efficiency, was carried out in Kiev during project preparation.
Buildings included in the assessment were primary schools, kindergartens, polyclinics, hospitals, hospital
administration and support buildings, hostels, buildings for higher education, theaters, art galleries, and
museums. The assessment was, first, based on qualitative research using structured in-depth interviews
and focus group discussions with users of public buildings as well as staff from the district heating
company Kievenergo, city representatives, and civil society stakeholders. Second, the assessment was
based on quantitative research by means of a survey administered to users of 300 public buildings, in
particular schools, kindergartens, polyclinics, and hospitals. The data resulting from the survey is being
processed at present. The issues addressed in the assessment were: (a) deficient building insulation,
varying thermal conditions, and failing heat and hot water installations; (b) quality and reliability of the
provision of heat and hot water; (c) issues, adverse impacts and health risks related to insufficient heating
and poor building insulation; (d) strategies to cope with deficient heating and inadequate building
insulation; (e) metering and conservation of heat and hot water; (f) collections, cost recovery and
indebtedness; (g) stakeholder participation, ownership, risk mitigation and sustainability; and (h)
awareness building.
The assessment revealed adverse impacts on working and living conditions as well as on the results of
activities carried out in public buildings due to: (a) inadequate quality of building construction, (b) failing
heat and hot water installations, and (c) deficient quality and reliability of district heating and hot water
services. Also, the assessment provided empirical data on the current energy conservation activities and
evaluated the scope for strengthening and expanding these activities based on a participatory approach. In
addition, the assessment provided inputs for the economic analysis of the project as well as insights into
financial and institutional issues, including intergovernmental (national government-city-rayon) issues
related to budgeting for utility charges and issues of cost recovery from municipal and other public
building owners. A detailed description of the findings from the qualitative research and the quantitative
results expected from the survey research are presented in Annex 9.
Another social assessment carried out during preparation of the complementary Kiev District Heating
Improvement Project as well as follow-up consultations with a wide range of stakeholders during
preparation of the Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project showved the need to improve the
effectiveness of the social assistance program in place to support low-income households in paying
charges for housing and communal services. Several factors constrain the effectiveness of the program in
place. First, a number of rules and regulations of the program prevent eligible beneficiaries from
applying and thus constrain program coverage. Second, a number of households receiving assistance do
not deserve it because means tests applied, at present, are predominantly based on official income that
imperfectly reflects real income. Thus, program leakage can be observed. Third, the growing complexity
of rules and regulations makes program operations more and more cumbersome, time-consuming, and
costly; surpasses the capacity of beneficiaries and also of social assistance staff to fully understand the



Page 22
program; constrains transparency; and jeopardizes identical program application in different social
assistance offices and by different social assistance staff. Fourth, lack of computerized communications
and operations of data exchange complicate and slow down processing of applications for social
assistance.
Advisory support would therefore be provided under the Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
to address these issues. In particular, this support would include measures to improve means testing,
review rules and regulations of the social assistance program, and strengthen computerized
communications and automated data exchange operations.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category      [ ] A  [XI B [I C
Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental studies consistent with the requirements
of the Ukrainian Ministry of Protection of Natural Environment, 1992 Law of Ukraine for Protection of
the Environment, and the provision of the World Bank Operational Directive on Environmental Policies.
In accordance with these procedures, an environmental review, consistent with the requirements for a
category "B" project for the energy efficiency investments has been performed. The institutional support
program was placed in category "C" and did not require an environmental analysis.
Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive environmental benefits through
reduced atmospheric emissions in Kiev and reduced consumption of natural gas and mazut in district
heating plants for the same service levels. Gas savings for the project are estimated to be in the order of
30 million m3 annually and mazut savings in the order of 8,000 tons annually. These fuel savings would
result in reductions of SO2 by 181 tons, NO, by 259 tons, and CO2 by 66,633 tons annually.
Environmental Emissions                   tons
NO,:         CO2           SO2
Without project         997         256,282        695
With project          738          189,648       514
Improvement            259         66,633         181
The environmental review showed that potential harmful environmental impacts might result from the
removal of asbestos from old thermal insulation in heating equipment. If asbestos is found when
dismantling old thermal insulation, all works on such insulation shall be perforned according to
Ukrainian and European work safety standards by specialized companies utilized specialized equipment.
Asbestos shall be disposed of in an envirotunentally acceptable way according to regulations. Further, all
new insulation materials that are used in the proposed project shall have ozone depletion factor zero (no
freon-blown polyurethane would be accepted).
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Primary Beneficiaries and other Affected Groups. The primary beneficiaries, including children,
teachers, medical staff and other personnel, participated in project preparation through consultations
based on in-depth interviews and focus group discussions and the quantitative social assessment survey.
Other primary beneficiaries, such as Kiev City State Administration and its district officials and the
district heating enterprise Kievenergo also participated in in-depth interviews and focus group discussions
during the preparation process.



Page 23
During implementation, beneficiaries of the investments in schools including children, teachers and
parents could be further involved in generating energy efficiency awareness. For example, school
teachers could incorporate lessons on energy efficiency in their teaching programs. Information on
energy efficiency in schools could be disseminated and have a spill-over effect to the families of the
students. This effect could be enhanced by involving parents' associations in the effort of awareness
building. Thus awareness of energy efficiency could also be generated in the population in general and
stimulate willingness to implement measures to save energy in residential buildings. The public
awareness campaign under the project would support Kiev City to promote energy conservation
awareness.
Other Key Stakeholders. A high-level Steering Committee was formed in November 1997 to oversee
and guide the preparation of the project. The Steering Committee was chaired by the State Committee for
Energy Conservation and included representatives of all the key agencies involved in the project such as
the Ministries of Health, Education and Culture, Kiev City State Administration, the State Committee of
Housing and Communal Services, Coal Ministry, State Committee for Gas, Ministries of Finance and
Economy, National Agency for Reconstruction and Development, district heating enterprise Kiev
Municipal District Heating Company and design institutes. The Steering Committee played a key role in
decision-making regarding the design of the project.
ARENA-ECO (Agency for Rational Energy Use and Ecology), a non-govemmental, not-for-profit
organization promoting energy efficiency and environmental protection in Ukraine, participated in project
preparation in the development of the feasibility study. The Kiev Research and Design Institute for
Residential and Civil Construction (KievZNIIEP) and ARENA-ECO also assisted in the preparation of
draft energy audit procedures, typical designs for heat substations, and procedures for monitoring and
verification of energy savings.



Page 24
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project relies on the significant financial, economic, socially and environmental
benefits for Kiev Municipality, the consumers and the economy at large. The increased efficiency in
energy use would reduce net energy requirements for the same level of service in the retrofitted buildings.
Financially, this mneans that the reduced consumption for the same (and improved) level of service would
decrease energy bills for building owners. These savings would provide incentives for Kiev City to
maintain the energy saving measures in proper working conditions. The savings achieved would also
provide incentives for other building owners to install their own energy efficiency measures, thus
fostering private sectlor participation and greater fuel savings.
Economically, the lower heat requirements would save fuel imports by about 41 million m3 of natural gas
and 8 thousand tons of mazut annually, representing foreign exchange savings for Ukraine of about
US$2.9 million per year.
Socially, the improved quality of service would save users of the buildings from supplementary heating
and improve their level of satisfaction. Particularly, low-incom:e users of educational and health facilities
would benefit from the reduction in supply shortages and improvement in supply reliability, since they
cannot compensate for the poor quality of heat as better-off users can. They therefore experience
significant personal gains, since the project improves the educational and health services resulting from
better heat and hot water services.
Environmentally, the lower fuel requirements would lower air pollutant emission levels of the order of
259 tons of NOx, 181 tons of S02 and 66,633 tons of C02 per year.
In order to better ensure the sustainability of the energy efficiency measures implemented in schools in
particular, parents and teachers would be engaged in routine and preventive maintenance of school
buildings. Parents' involvement in maintenance tasks in schools is envisaged to be further increased by
promoting parents' rmaintenance supervisory committees and training those committees to carry out
routine and preventive maintenance checks. Also teachers would be participating in those maintenance
supervisory committees.



Page 25
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Heating bills from the heating utilities are based on  M      Support to be provided under the
meter readings rather than normns to allow for energy         complementary Kiev District Heating
savings to be realized                                        Improvement Project
Kiev City's public buildings to pay their heating   S         Kiev City's public buildings under the
bills in a timely manner                                      Project would settle their heating bills
in a timely manner as a highest
priority
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Timely availability of counterpart funds for the    M         Plan for provision of counterpart fund
project investments                                           was a condition for negotiations and
Kiev City is judged to have the
capability to provide adequate funding
Untested implementation capacity of Kiev City in    M         Detailed           implementation
carrying out this type of an investment program may           arrangements fully  identified  and
result in a longer implementation period                      agreed  in  advance with  staffing
arrangements to be in place as a
condition  of  effectiveness;  Kiev
City's PIU to be supported by foreign
and local consultants with experience
in energy efficiency projects
Overall Risk Rating    M to S      I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversial aspects have been identified.



Page 26
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a) a subsidiary loan agreement has been executed between ULkraine and Kiev City State Administration;
(b) Kiev City State Administration has established the PIU and appointed the Project Director and other
technical and accounting personnel to the PIiU; and
(c) Kiev City State Administration has submitted draft bidding documents for the first group (30) of
buildings to be addressed by the Project during the first year of implementation.
2. Conditions for Negotiations:
Prior to negotiations, the following conditions were met:
(a) Kiev City State Administration to submit a plan as to how its counterpart contribution to the project
cost would be provided;
(b) Kiev City State Administration to demonstrate that the 19'98 installment of past arrears of heat bills
(UAH 29.1 million), and any other installments which fall due prior to Loan negotiations, have been paid
according to schedule and that all new heat bills received after January 1, 1998 have been paid in a timely
manner; and
(c) Kiev City State Administration to nominate the Project Director and key staff and prepare the
organization structure for implementation of the project.
3. Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
During negotiations, agreements were obtained regarding:
(a) on-lending and other arrangements for the Loan;
(b) arrangements i-or establishing and operating the Special Account;
(c) accounting and auditing requirements of the project;
(d) the timing of the mid-term review and reporting and monitoring requirements of the project;
(e) Kiev City State Administration to reduce its arrears of payment for heating bills received prior to
January 1, 1998, in accordance with a debt restructuring schedule requiring payment of the remaining
balance of UAH 21.8 million by December 31, 2000;
(f) Kiev City State Administration to ensure the settlement of heating bills for the buildings under the
Project on a timely basis as a highest priority;
(g) Kiev City State Administration to give priority in retrofitting to the buildings with good performance
in settlement of their heating bills;



Page 27
(h) Kiev City State Administration to regulate heat tariffs in the City of Kiev with the objective to cover
the reasonable costs of heat supply provided by the heat supply organizations; and
(i) Kiev City State Administration to maintain the PIU headed by a Project Director with adequate staff
and assisted by consultants with qualifications and experience under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[XI The typical engineering designs for substations, which are the main energy efficiency measures, for
the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation. [ ] Not
applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Receipt by the Bank of the draft bidding documents for the first group (30) of buildings to be addressed
by the Project during the first year of implementation would be a condition of effectiveness.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Program/Task Team Leader: Ms. Carolyn Gochenour
Sector Manager/Director//Mr. Hossein Razavi
CountriManager/Director: Ms. Lily Chu



Page 28
Annex 1
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Project Design Summary
V     Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Evaluation            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                         (from Goal to Bank Mission)
infrastructure, improve  energy  important public buildings                                      energy imports will contribute to
efficiency and create a market                                 Energy production levels of local  restoration of growth and thereby
environment conducive to private  Attraction  of  private  sector  district   heating   and   power  facilitating poverty alleviation
participation                  financing  for  energy  saving  production companies
investments
Registration statistics of private
Development of private-sector  sector  companies  involved  in
companies to undertake energy  energy efficiency
efficiency investments
Project Development            Outcome/Impact Indicators:                                        (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:
The  current  situation  of  heat
To improve the energy efficiency  Reduction  of  energy  losses  Semi-annual progress reports    rationing in Kiev is reduced through
of key public buildings, mainly  through the building envelope and  Evaluation reports at mid-term and  the complementary  Kiev District
schools and hospitals, in Kiev  through     elimination    of  project completion                Heating Improvement Project
through cost-effective measures  overheating
and sound heat tariffpolicies
Outputs:                       Output Indicators:                                                (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Energy savings in about 1,300  la. Number and square meters of  Semi-annual progress reports and  Heating  bills  from  the  heating
key public buildings in Kiev   buildings retrofitted           evaluation report.s at mid-term and  utilities are based on meter readings
project completion               rather than norms to  allow  for
Ilb. Energy savings (Gcal and US                                   energy savings to be realized
dollars) after retrofit
Public buildings will settle their
I c. Heat tariffs                                                heating bills in a timely manner
I d.   Settlement of remaining
balance of arrears of heating bills
according to restructured target
fbr 2000
1 e. Settlement of annual heating
bills of project buildings
I Project Components/Sub-        Inputs:  (budget  for  each                                      (from Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)                      I.      Progress  reports  and  I.   Counterpart funds would be
1. Energy Efficiency            1. $28.1 million                disbursement reports             available in a timely manner
Improvements in Buildings/
Technical Audits & Design                                                                        2. PIU staffing arrangements in place
2.     Progress  reports  and  in a timely manner, supported by
2. Institutional Support:                                       disbursement reports             foreign   and  local  consultants
a. Project Implementation Unit    2a. $1.7 million                                               experienced  in  energy  efficiency
(P11)                                                                                            investments, would allow Project to
b. Public Awareness Campaign    2b. $0.1 million                                                 proceed on schedule
c. Training and Equipment       2c. $0.1 million                3. Audit reports
d. Kiev Social Assistance       2d. $0.1 million
Support
3. Financial Audits:            3. $0.1 million
4. Front-End Fee                4. S0.2 million



Page 29
Annex 2
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Energy Efficiency Improvements in Buildings, including Heat
Meters (US$ 26.2 million)
About 1,300 institutional buildings, including healthcare, educational and cultural buildings in
Kiev, owned by Kiev City State Administration, with a floor space of about 5.1 million mn2, would
be retrofitted under the project. From 46 possible retrofit measures evaluated, the following 9
cost-effective measures have been selected as the highest priority for implementation: (a)
building heat meters; (b) substation automation; (c) weather-stripping; (d) radiator reflectors; (e)
ceiling fans; (f) faucet flow restrictors; (g) low-flow shower heads; (h) hot water heat exchangers;
and (i) riser balancing valves. The number of buildings by building type and floor space to be
included in the project is shown below:
Building Type           Number of   Floor space
Buildings      (m2)
Municipal Dept of Health:
Hospitals                                 128        509,700
Polyclinics                                98        261,809
Administration                             44         58,823
Municipal Dept of Education:
Kindergartens                             600       1,312,326
Schools                                   389      2,804,268
Municipal Dept of Culture:
Theaters                                   12         48,043
Art Galleries/Museums                      31         65,358
Total                                    1,302     5,060,327
Project Component 2 - Technical Audits and Design of the Retrofits (US$ 1.9 million)
This component will include: (a) the technical audits of the project buildings which will yield the
engineering estimates of the buildings' present energy consumption and confirm the most feasible
energy efficiency retrofit actions to be undertaken; and (b) the necessary technical designs of the
retrofit measures as well as technical specifications and bidding documents for the competitive
bidding of the supply and install contracts to implement the retrofits. In the beginning of the
project, the firms performing this task would receive substantial training from the PIUJ.



Page 30
Project Component 3 - Institutional Support Program (US$ 2.0 million)
This component consist of following sub-components:
Project Component 3a - Project Implementation Unit, Management of the Project (US$ 1.7
million)
This component would include consultancy services for managing the project implementation.
The consultancy services would be implemented by a joint team of foreign and local consultants.
This component would include monitoring, at given milestones of the project, the energy
consumption of the retrofitted buildings, comparison of the figures with audit estimates, and
preparation of monitoring reports for the PrU.
Project Component 3b - Public Awareness Campaign (US$ 0.1 million)
This component would include consultancy services to develop training modules based on
packages of energy efficiency measures implemented in school buildings and incorporating
modules in teaching programs in schools. Consultants would also help to develop a media
campaign to promote energy efficiency awareness in the population at large.
Project Component 3c - Training and Equipment (US$ 0.1 million)
This component would include training of PIU managers, public building managers, maintenance
personnel as well as training of the local consultants who will be conducting the technical audits
and designs. A training program for the contractors who wish to bid for the supply and install
contracts issued for building retrofits would also be included along with the provision of office
equipment, computers and software for the PIU.
Project Component 3d - Social Assistance Support (U[S$ 0.1 million)
This component would include consultancy services to design measures to improve means
testing, review rules and regulations of the social assistance program, and strengthen
computerized communications and automated data exchange operations. Provision of computers
and software would also be included
Project Component 4 - Financial Audits (US$ 0.1 million)
The components would include auditing services for the incremental audit costs of the project for
each year of the project period.



Page 31
Annex 3
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local       Foreign       Total
------------    US $ million---------------
Energy Efficiency Improvements in Buildings, excluding Heat Meters     3.6         11.4         14.9
Heat Meters                                                            3.1         0.1           3.2
Technical Audits and Design                                            1.4                       1.4
Institutional Support                                                              2.0          2.0
Financial Audits                                                                    0.1         0.1
Total Base Cost                                                        8.1        13.6         21.7
Physical Contingencies                                              0.8          1.I          2.0
Price Contingencies                                                 0.2          1.4          1.6
Taxes and Duties                                                    4.9                       4.9
Total Project Cost                                                    14.1        16.1         30.2
Front-End Fee                                                                       0.2          0.2
Total Financing Required                                              14.1        16.3         30.4
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



Page 32
Annex 4
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Table 4.1: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(US$ '000, 1999 prices)
Distributive Impact
ENPV             Poor          Fiscal
Benefits (+)
*  Natural Gas Savings              $13,780
*  Mazut Savings                     $4,494
*  Increase in Willingness to        $2,755
Pay
Costs (.-)                          $14,848        ____________
Project Indicators
*  NPV(10%)                          $6,181           $2,814        $611
*  ERR                               20.2%
*  Distribution Coefficients                          39.2%         8.5%
Probability of Achievement           54.0%            45.2%         53.2%
Results with a 75% Probability of
Achievement*
*  ERR                               17.1%
*  Distributive Coefficients                          23.7%         7.1%
Net present values discounted to 1999 with a 10% discount rate.
A. Overview: The economic analysis was conducted to verify that the benefits justify the commitment
of resources to the energy efficiency project and that the project's economic profile is robust against the
uncertainties that may affect its development. The project comprises 1,302 buildings, of which about 989
are educational, 270 for healthcare and 43 cultural.
Cost-benefit analysis was applied to the aggregated cost and benefit flows for each of the 7 types of
buildings:  hospitals,  polyclinics,  administration,  kindergartens,  schools,  theaters,  and  art
galleries/museums. The costs and benefits were estimated based on constant 1999 prices and unitary
values for border prices and conversion factors. The purpose of the analysis was to produce the economic
indicators -economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV). The analysis assumed a 10%
social opportunity cost of capital for Ukraine.
B. Economic Costs:
The foreign and local components of the project cost were calculated for 8 efficiency improvement
measures (riser balancing valves were considered together with substation automation). These costs are
net of fiscal and financial transfers. Table 4.2 presents the investment costs by efficiency measures.



Page 33
Table 4.2: Estimated Investment Costs
(US$ '000, 1999 prices)
Domestic  Foreign    Total
Radiator Reflectors             314      1,415     1,729
Weather-stripping               892      3.034     3,926
Ceiling Fans                      3         55        59
Substation Automation          2,820     9,043    11,863
Hot Water Heat Exchangers       685      2,390     3,075
Low-Flow Shower Heads           127         22       149
Faucet Flow Restrictors         182         45       228
Heat Meters                    4,117       155     4,272
Total                          9,141    16,159    25,300
C. Economic Benefits
Four main economic benefits were identified for the energy efficiency project:
0 Foreign exchange savings. Without the project, the level of fuel consumption will be larger than
with the project. It is estimated that of the total fuel requirements for heat generation, 85% constitutes
natural gas and 15% mazut. Considering the prices Ukraine is currently paying for imported gas and
mazut and the World Bank forecasts for European gas and oil, the fuel savings were estimated for the
project. Table 4.3 presents the prices for natural gas and mazut, as well as the principle parameters and
assumptions used in the economic analysis.
Table 4.3: Fuel Prices and Calculation Parameters
Unit        1999   2000   2005   2010   2013
Constant 1999 prices
Natural gas                                US$/th.m3  56.4   56.2   51.3   49.4   48.0
Mazut                                       US$/ton   79.9   85.5   84.2   82.3   80.8
Memorandum Items
Growth in heat requirements without             %        1.0%
Growth in heat savings with                     %        1.5%
DH boiler efficiency                            %        88%
Transmission System Efficiency                  %        80%
Natural Gas Fuel Share                          %        85%
Mazut Fuel Share                                %        15%
Energy content of gas (Ukraine)              KcalIm3    7,975
Conversion Standard Tons to Gcal            GcalVTSF        7
Energy content of gas (Europe)              Mbtu/tcm       38
Height adjustment factor (Administrative                   1.1
buildings)
Height adjustment factor (Galleries and museums)           1.4
a/ Forecasted according to World Bank Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, February 1999
* Gain in willingness to pay. Without the project, the level of heat inside the buildings is below
standards. On the one hand, as the current system supplies less heat than required, consumers are forced
to invest or reinvest in alternative heat sources, such as electrical radiators or small gas boilers. This



Page 34
indicates that consumers are willing to pay more than the ongoinig heat tariff for obtaining a better service
level. On the other hand, the increased efficiency in energy use will reduce net energy requirements for
the same level of service, lowering energy bills for paying customers. This increases their consumer
surplus.
Given that heat has closer substitutes than other energy forms, such as electricity and gas, a slighter
higher price elasticity of demand than the other energy forms has been assumed at -0.75. Based on this
value and the existing heat tariff of about US$11.6 per Gcal, the increase in consumer surplus due to the
project was estimated.
* Environmental benefits. With the project, the decline in fuel burning would result in lower air
pollutant emission levels of the order of 259 tons of NO,, 181 tons of S02 and 66,633 tons of CO2 per
year. These benefits have not been quantified.
* Additional benefits consist of the positive impacts on edtication, health and productivity from the
improvement of the service level and reliability of space heating services in public buildings. These
benefits have also not been quantified.
D. Assumptions for the Distributive Analysis
A distributive analysis of how cost and benefits are allocated among the different project stakeholders,
specifically the poor and the Government, was also undertaken. Unskilled labor, those in the lowest
income quartile, would be expected to benefit from the additional employment generated by the energy
efficiency program. The program would generate new jobs for retrofit installation work of about 64 full-
time workers from year 2 through to year 5 of the program. Poor users are also expected to benefit from
the reduction in supply shortages and improvement in quality of supply, thereby increasing their
consumers' surplus.
The Government is also expected to benefit from the additional tax revenues generated by the project
from import duties, VAT on project expenditures and other taxes. Nominal, or pre-tax wages are subject
to progressive income tax, pension tax (1%) and social security tax (0.5%). Income tax is 10% for
monthly wages below $85, 20% for monthly wages between $85 and $510, and 30% for monthly wages
from $510 to $850. Apart from individual taxation, the utility also should pay taxes. First, companies
pays 20% VAT, plus a 30% tax on company's profits. DII utilities are also expected to gain from the net
increase in sales revenue and the reduction in fuel costs.
Table 4.4 presents the results of the distribution analysis. The analysis shows that with a 75% certainty at
least 23.7% of the net benefits of the energy efficiency program would help the poor, and about 7.1% of
the benefits would benefit the Government.



Page 35
Table 4.4: Distributive Analysis of the Project Discounted Cost and Benefit Flows
(US$ 000)
Private Sector                 Public Sector      Net Benefit a
Unskilled            Users
Labor      Non-poor       Poor        Taxes      Utilities
Costs
Materials                                                           258.9      (5,135.6)    (4,876.7)
Domestic labor                 0.3                                   6.0       (1,103.2)    (1,096.8)
Foreign labor                                                         -        (3,004.4)    (3,004.4)
Imports                                                             345.8      (6,215.9)    (5,870.1)
Benefits
Natural Gas savings                                                            13,775.9     13,775.9
Mazut savings                                                                  4,492.8      4,492.8
Willingness to pay                         688.9       2,066.6                   0.2        2,755.6
Net Benefit                    0.3         688.9       2,066.6      610.7      2,809.7      6,176.3
Distribution Analysis      Coefficients  Probability  Coefficients
of      with a 75%
occurrence   certainty
Equity                        33.5%       54.1%        23.7%
Fiscal                        9.9%        65.6%         7.1% %
Note: These values are discounted over the expected life of the components (i.e., 15 years).
a The total net benefit is equivalent to the project's economnic NPV plus the net benefit to unskilled labor with all the
financial transfers canceled out.
E.   Assumptions for the Risk Analysis
The energy efficiency project is subject to several risks which are largely beyond the scope of the projects
design, such as macroeconomic, policy and institutional risks, as well as those related to the existing
projects. The purpose of risk analysis is to assign probability distributions to the different input variables,
key parameters and assumptions so that a weighted expected outcome can be obtained. Risk analysis
allows the examination of the risks that are more relevant for the profitability of the project, enabling the
design of a more targeted risk mitigation strategy. The software "Crystal Ball" was used to carry out the
analysis. The software allowed the extension of the forecasting capability of the spreadsheet cost benefit
model developed in Excel for each type of buildings. Each input variable, parameter and assumption was
expressed as a range of possible values within a probability distribution curve. Then, by using a Monte
Carlo simulation, the software enabled the outcomes of the cost benefit model in a forecast chart showing
the entire range of possible results and the likelihood of achieving each of them.
The key economic results of the risk analysis (for the ERR) are presented in Table 4.5 below.



Page 36
Table 4.5: Summary of Risk Analysis for the Energy Efficiency Program's ERR
Crystal Ball Report
Summary:
Display Range is from -2.50 to 17.50 US Million
Entire Range is from -3.89 to 23.94 US Million
After 10,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.03
Statistics:                                              Value
Trials                                           10000
Mean                                             6.74
Median                                           6.48
Standard Deviation                              3.44
Variance                                         11.85
Skewness                                         0.49
Kurtosis                                         3.52
Coeff. of Variability                            0.51
Range Minimum                                    -3.89
Range Maximum                                    23.94
Range Width                                      27.82
Mean Std. Error                                  0.03
Forecast Economic NP'V
10,000 Trials                            Frequency Chart                                 53 Outliers
.026                                                                             7 259
.019  . . . . . . . . . . . ..                    .   ....                            .194.2
Z%                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-n
.0 013   .....................................................                          2   .5
E~~ ~ ~~~L Om j||llllllltillll, ............................................ .......    6o.7
000 
-2.50             2.50             7.50              12.50             17.50
US Million



Page 37
Annex 5
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Financial Summary and Assumptions for the Financial Analysis
Table 5.1: Financial Summary/Financing Plan
Years Ending December 31: 1999 through 2004
(US$ million)
Implementation Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total
Project Costs
Energy Efficiency Improvements       -     0.4      4.4     4.4      4.5     4.3      18.0
Heat Meters                        1.2     0.8      0.8     0.8        -       -       3.6
Technical Audits and Design                0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4       -       1.6
Taxes and Duties                   0.2     0.3      1.2     1.2      1.0      0.9     4.9
Institutional Support                -     0.9      0.7     0.3      0.1       -      2.0
Financial Audit                      -    0.02    0.02    0.02      0.02     0.02      0.1
Front End Fee                             0.18                                         0.2
Total                           1.4      3.1     7.5      7.1     6.0      5.2    30.4
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
World Bank                                20%      59%     62%      75%     82%      60%
Donors                                    29%       9%      4%       2%      0%       7%
Kiev Municipality                100%     51%      32%     33%      24%      18%     33%
100%      100   100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
Main assumptions: The World Bank Loan would cover 100% of the costs for supply and installation of
energy measures (excluding taxes), the incremental financial audits and the front-end fee. All other costs
of the project, including supply and installation of heat meters, technical audits and designs, and taxes and
import duties would be financed by Kiev City State Administration. The institutional support program
would also be the responsibility of Kiev City State Administration and would be financed by donor funds.



Page 38
Table 5.2: Kiev City Project Cash Flow Analysis
Years Ending December 31: 1999 through 2011
(US$ million)
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010   2011   Total
Sources:
WorldBankLoan           -    0.6   4.4   4.4   4.5   4.3                                                    18.3
Donor Grant             -    0.9   0.7   0.3   0.1      -                                                   2.0
Kiev Municipality      1.5   1.6  2.4   2.4   1.4   0.9                                                     10.1
Savings in Heat Bills:
HeatBillswithout        -     -   13.5  14.7  16.0  16.5  17.1  17.5  17.9  18.3  18.8  19.2   19.7
Project
Heat Bills with Project    -  -   13.3  13.5  13.6  12.9  12.3  12.6  12.9  13.2  13.5  13.8   14.1
Savings                 -     -    0.2   1.2   2.4   3.6   4.8   4.9   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4    5.6   43.8
Total Sources          1.5  3.1   7.8   8.4   8.4   8.8   4.8   4.9   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4    5.6   74.2
Uses:
Energy Efficiency       -    0.4   4.4   4.4   4.5   4.3                                                    18.0
Improvements
Heat Meters            1.2  0.8   0.8   0.8      -      -                                                   3.6
Technical Audits and    0.02   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   -                                                     1.6
Design
Taxes and Duties       0.2   0.3   1.2   1.2   1.0   0.9                                                    4.9
Institutional Support   -    0.9   0.7   0.3   0.1     -                                                    2.0
Financial Audit         -    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                    0.1
Total Capital          1.5  2.9   7.5   7.1   6.0   5.2                                                     30.2
Expenditure
Debt Service:
Commitmnent Fee         -   0.04  0.04   0.03   0.02   0.01    -    -      -     -      -      -      -     0.1
Front-End Fee           -    0.2    -     -      -      -     -     -      -     -      -      -      -     0.2
Interest - World Bank   -    0.0   0.2   0.5   0.8   1.1   1.3   1.1   1.0   0.8   0.6   0.4    0.2    8.1
Principal - World Bank    -   -     -     -      -      -    2.1   2.3   2.4   2.6   2.8   3.0    3.2    18.3
Total Debt Service      -    0.2   0.2   0.5   0.8   1.1   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4    3.4   26.8
Total Uses            1.5   3.2    7.7   7.6   6.8   6.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4    3.4   57.0
Cash Surplus/Deficit    -   (0.1)   0.0   0.7   1.6   2.4   1.4   1.5   1.7   1.8   1.9   2.0    2.2    17.2
The project cash flow analysis is based on Table 5.1 and has included: (i) the financial benefits in the
form of energy savings; (ii) debt service on the World Bank Loan; and (iii) the additional 7 years during
which the World Bank Loan will be repaid. The calculations in Table 5.2 are based on the following
main assumptions:



Page 39
Energy savings: Energy use in the 1,302 buildings included in the project is 1,055,246 Gcal per year.
According to the feasibility study, the total savings potential for these buildings is 298,077Gcal per year,
or 28.2% of current usage. Following a linear increase during the implementation period, it is assumed
that this potential will be reached in 2005.
Heat Tariffs: The projection of future heat tariffs is based on the actual heat tariff for budgetary
organizations as of January 1, 1999 (UAH 52/Gcal or about US$ 11.6/Gcal) and the assumption that the
heat tariff for budgetary organizations will increase by 5% per year in real terms during the project period
2000-2004 and thereafter increase by international inflation predicted at 2.4% per year.
Debt service: The maturity of the World Bank loan is assumed to be 12 years with a 5 year grace period.
The interest rate is assumed to be 7% (including 1% mark-up on the on-lending rate by the Ministry of
Finance).
Table 5.3: Financial Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Year   Energy Use    Energy Use    Energy        Average       Capital       Energy         Net
without Project  with Project    Saving   Heat Tariff   Expenditure     Saving       Benefit
(Gcal)        (Gcal)       (Gcal)      US$/Gcal    ($ million)    ($ million)   (S million)
1999                                               11.56
2000        -             -            -           12.42         2.9            -          (2.9)
2001    1,055,246      995,605       18,465        13.36         7.5           0.2         (7.2)
2002    1,055,246      937,843       86,368        14.36         7.1           1.2         (5.8)
2003    1,055,246      878,150       156,303       15.44         6.0           2.4         (3.6)
2004    1,055,246      818,637      226,161        15.81         5.2           3.6         (1.6)
2005    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        16.19                       4.8          4.8
2006    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        16.58                       4.9          4.9
2007    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        16.98                       5.1          5.1
2008    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        17.39                       5.2          5.2
2009    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        17.81                       5.3          5.3
2010    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        18.23                       5.4          5.4
2011    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        18.67                       5.6          5.6
2012    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        19.12                       5.7          5.7
2013    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        19.58                       5.8          5.8
2014    1,055,246      757,169      298,077        20.05                       6.0          6.0
Net Present Value (discount rate 10%) = 3.7
Financial Rate of Return = 13.1%
Main Assumptions: The cost benefit analysis is based on the same assumptions about costs and energy
savings as Table 5.2. The discount rate used for calculating the net present value is 10%.



Page 40
Annex 6
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Special account:



Page 41
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method               Total Cost
ICB      IS      NCB      LCS   N.B.F.
a)
1. Goods Energy Efficiency Equipment,
excluding Heat Meters                   4.9      1.2                                 6.1
(4.0)   (1.0)                               (5.0)
2. Works Installation of Energy
Efficiency Equipment                                      1.3                        1.3
(1.1)                      (1.1)
3. Supply and Installation Energy
Efficiency Improvements and Heat Meters   14.4                             4.3       18.7
(11.9)                                      (11.9)
4. Services b)                                                    0.1      4.0       4.1
(0.1)             (0.1)
Total                                19.3     1.2      1.3      0.1      8.3     30.2 c)
(15-9)   (1-0)    (1 1)    (0.1)           (18.1)c)
a) Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
b) Services include: (i) Institutional support component (US$ 2.0 m);
(ii) technical audits and designs; and (iii) financial audits.
c) Excludes front-end fee.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 42
Annex 6, Table Al: Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
(US$ million)
Major Procurement Packages      Description    Number  Type  Estim.Cost  Proc.    Doc.   Invit. to   Bid   Contract Contract  Contract
of      1)  (US$ mill.) Method Preparation   Bid   opening  Award  Signing Completion
Contracts       w/tax&dut   2)
Y                                                                   :
Supply of Retrofit Equipment I  Supply and Install  2     G       0-30     ICB    Apr-00   Apr-00  May-00  Jun-00  Jul-00    Nov-00
building retrofits
Install Retrofit Equipment 1                      2       W       0.10     NCB    Apr-00   Apr-00  May-00  Jun-00  Jul-00    Nov-00
Supply of Retrofit Equipment 2  Supply and Install  4     G       4.60     ICB     Dec-00   Dec-00  Jan-01  Mar-01  Mar-01    Oct-01
building retrofits
Install Retrofit Equipment 2                      4       W       1.20     LCB    Dec-00   Dec-00  Jan-01  Mar-Ot Mar-01    Oct-01
S/I Contract 3               Supply and Install   2       S/I     4.81     ICB     Dec-01   Dec-01  Jan-02  Mar-02  Mar-02    Oct-02
building retrofits
S/I Contract 4               Supply and Install   2       Sl    4.84      ICB    Dec-02   Dec-02  Jan-03  Mar-03  Mar-03    Oct-03
building retrofits
S/I Contract 5               Supply and Install   2       S/I     4.83     IC:3    Dec-03   Dec-03  Jan-04  Mar-04  Mar-04    Oct-04
building retrofits
Miscellaneous equip. and suppl Miscell. Equipment    5    G       1.20      IS              Jan 00-                  Mar-00-  May-00-
and supply                                                 Oct-04                    Mar-04   May-04
Financial Audits              Financial Audits    5       S       0.10     LCS
Sub-total            28              21.98
Of which Bank Financed:              18.10
Supply and Install Meters   Supply and install Meters     S/I     4.32    N.B.F.                                     Jan-97    Oct-03
Technical Audits I           Conduct Technical Audits and    S    0.02    N.B.F    Oct-99                            Dec-99    Apr-00
Design of Retrofits
Technical Audits 2           Conduct Technical Audits and    S    0.50    N.B.F   Aug-00                             Oct-00    Dec-00
Design of Retrofits
Technical Audits 3           Conduct Technical Audits and    S    0.47    N.B.F   Aug-01                             Oct-01    Dec-01
Design of Retrofits
Technical Audits 4           Conduct Technical Audits and    S    0.47    N.B.F   Aug-02                             Oct-02    Dec-02
Design of Retrofits
Technical Audits 5           Conduct Technical Audits and    S    0.46    N.B.F   Aug-03                             Oct-03    Dec-03
Design of Retrofits
Sub-total                             1.92
General Consultancy Contract    Management Contract       S       1.68    N.B.F.   Nov-99                            Dec-99    Dec-03
Public Awareness Campaign    Public Awareness Campaign    S       0.12    N.B.F.   Jun-01                            Aug-01    Dec-01
Social Assistance Support      Social Assistance Support  S       0.10    N.B F    Jun-01                            Aug-01   Dec-01
Training and equipment         Training and equipment     S       0.10    N.B.F.   Jan-00                            Apr-03    Dec-03
Sub-total                             2.00
Total                                30.22
1) G for Goods, W for Works, S/I for Supply and Installation, S for Services
2) ICB for International Competitive Bidding, IS for International Shopping, LCS for Least-Cost Selection, NCB for National Competitive
Bidding, N.B.F. for Not Bank-Financed;



Page 43
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and       ICB                         IS           NS       Minor    Other   Percentage
Works                                                           Works   Methods  of loan
amount
subject to
prior
review
Procurement    Goods:        Works:         Goods:
thresholds;    US$300,000  US$ 550,000      up to                                         100%
individual                 Aggregate:    US$300,000
and                       US$1,300,000   Aggregate:
aggregate                               US$1,200,000
Prior Review    Goods:       Works:
All          All            All                                         100%
Consultants     QBCS          QBS           Fixed         LCS      Qualifi-   Single   Individuals
Budget                 cations    Source
Procurement                                            US$50,000
Method
Threshold
Ex-post      No ex-post review. All subject to prior review.
Review
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
The PIU is in process of being formed. No capacity likely at this moment. Technical Assistance of foreign
specialists envisaged at an amount of about US$ 1.7 million, to be financed from grants.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country       Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Procurement Strategy Paper Status:                     actions for the first year ready by negotiations:
Draft CPSP June 23, 1997                               This will be a condition for effectiveness.



Page 44
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Day of    Date of General   Indicate if there is     Domestic          Domestic
Project Launch       Procurement   procurement subject    Preference for      Preference for
Workshop:         Notice: May-99  to mandatory SPN in      Goods: Yes         Works, if
May-00                              Development                           applicable: Not
Business: No                            applicable
Retroactive financing: Yes, up to $1 million after  Advance Procurement: Yes
November 5, 1999.                             7
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Progress reports by the PItJ on a semi-annual basis.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: The donor grant agreement
defines the procurement arrangements that are to be used.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the project: Name: Gultekin Yuksel, Procurement Advisory Specialist, Ext: 3-8078
Explain briefly the role of the Field Office in procurement: The Field Office will assist in procurement
training, project launch work shop, and preliminary review of procurement documents on a selective basis.



Page 45
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in               Financing Percentage
US$ million
A: Works                               1.100        80% of expenditures for works executed
through NCB procedures
B: Goods                               5.000        100% of CIF expenditure,
100% of ex-factory expenditure, or
80% of other local expenditure
C: Supply and Installation            11.900        100% of CIF expenditure,
100% of ex-factory expenditure, or
80% of other local expenditure, and
80% of works
D: Audit Services                      0.100        100%
E: Front-End Fee                       0.183        100%
F: Unallocated                         0.007
Total        18.290



Page 46
Annex 7
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Project Processing Budget anid Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
N/A (prepared as part       N/A
of the Kiev DH
Improvement Project)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At initial PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     21 months            32 months
First Bank mission (identification)            10/19/1995           10/19/1995
Appraisal mission departure                     7/5/1997            6/8-19/1998
Negotiations                                    9/30/1997           11/1-5/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     N/A                4/30/2000
Prepared by: State Committee for Energy Conservation
Preparation assistance: Bilateral Aid from the United States Department of Energy with
consultancy assistance from Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, operated by Battelle
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Carolyn Gochenour                         Task Team Leader
Pentti Aro                         District Heating Engineer
Luis Gutierrez                          Energy Economist
Enar Wennerstrom                          Financial Analyst
Galina Mikhlin/Nikolai Soubbotin                  Legal Counsel
Eugen Finkel (Consultant)                      Social Scientist
Kjell Larsson (Consultant)                    Energy Specialist
Tord Holmstrom (Consultant)                Regional Energy Specialist



Page 47
Annex 8
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project Implementation Plan
Decree on establishment of the PIU and its role in project implementation
Organizational structure of the PIU
Terms of Reference for PIU Staff
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Ukraine Kiev District Heating Improvement Project Staff Appraisal Report, April 24,
1998
Project Financial Analysis
Project Economic, Risk and Distributive Analyses
C. Other
Kyivl Institutional Buildings (KIBA) Sector Energy Efficiency Program: Technical
Assessment, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, August 1997
Kyiv Institutional Buildings Sector Energy Efficiency Program:   Lending and
Implementation Assessment, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, August 1997,
including Environmental Impacts, Chapter 3.2
KIBA Building Stock Data, Letter Report, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory,
August 1997
KIBA Demonstration Status Report, Letter Report, Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory, August 1997
Joint EBRD-World Bank Energy Efficiency Action Plan for Ukraine
Ukraine Energy Saving Company ("UkrEsco") - Project Description, European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, January 1997
*Including electronic files.
"Kyiv" is in accordance with official Ukrainian usage.



Page 48
Annex 9
Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project
Social Assessment
A. BACKGROUND
1.        During project preparation, a social assessment was carried out in Kiev to obtain
feedback from users of public buildings on the provision of heat and hot water, building
insulation, and energy efficiency. Buildings included in the assessment were primary schools,
kindergartens, polyclinics, hospitals, hospital administration and support buildings, buildings for
higher education, theaters, art galleries and museums. The issues addressed in the assessment
were: (i) deficient building insulation, varying thermal conditions, failing heat and hot water
installations; (ii) quality and reliability of the provision of heat and hot water; (iii) issues, adverse
impacts and health risks related to insufficient heating and poor building insulation; (iv) strategies
to cope with deficient heating and inadequate building insulation; (v) metering and conservation
of heat and hot water; (vi) collections, cost recovery, and indebtedness; (vii) stakeholder
participation, ownership, risk mitigation and sustainability; and (viii) awareness building.
2.         The assessment was based on qualitative research using structured in-depth
interviews and focus group discussions with users of public buildings as well as staff from
Kievenergo, city representatives and civil society stakeholders. The assessment was also based
on quantitative research by means of a survey administered to users of 340 public buildings, in
particular, schools, kindergartens, polyclinics and hospitals. Findings obtained from qualitative
research and quantitative results attained from survey research are presented below.
B.   DEFICIENT INSULATION, VARYING THERMAL CONDITIONS, FAILLING
HEAT AND HOT WATER INSTALLATIONS
3.         Qualitative interviews and focus group with users of public buildings as well as
quantitative survey research show that deficient building insulation creates discomfort in schools,
kindergartens, polyclinics, hospitals and other public buildings in winter. Also, inadequate
insulation of windows, doors and walls, too large windows., and low temperatures in rooms on the
first floor, on top floors and in building corners generated discomfort. Further, there was
evidence of leaking or virtually obstructed radiators (12% and 22%, respectively) and hot water
pipes (36% and 24%, respectively). In addition, there were complaints about leaking roofs (42%)
and humidity in buildings (34%).
C.   QUALITY AND RELIABILITY OF DISTRICT HEATING AND HOT WATER
SERVICES.
4.        In 61% of the cases, users of public buildings are dissatisfied because of low room
temperatures.  In particular, students, teachers and parents in schools complained about
inappropriate room temperatures. In addition, heating was initiated too late in the Fall, as users of
public buildings expressed in in-depth interviews and focus group discussions. Dissatisfaction
was further caused by heating and hot water interruptions, problems with hot water pressure and
delays in obtaining hot water after the tap is opened. Moreover, interviewees complained that
neither heating nor hot water interruptions were previously announced.



Page 49
D. ISSUES OF ATTENDANCE IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS
5.        Due to insufficient heating and poor building insulation, parents hesitate to send
their children to schools and kindergartens in 38% of the cases. As a result of this attitude, levels
of attendance in these institutions tend to decrease, in particular, in kindergartens. Decrease in
attendance due to low indoor temperatures is also reported from buildings for higher education.
Furthermore, attendance of public theaters, art galleries and museums is likely to drop because of
low room temperatures.
E. ADVERSE IMPACTS
6.        The survey confirmed evidence from  in-depth interviews and focus group
discussions that, in winter, insufficient heating and poor building insulation (i) adversely affect
the effectiveness of teaching in school and the capacity of children to concentrate and learn (in
50% of the cases); (ii) may hamper the work of doctors, nurses and other medical personnel in
hospitals and polyclinics (30%); and (iii) may constrain recovery of patients in hospitals and
polyclinics (30%).
F.   COPING STRATEGIES
7.         Supplementing Heat. The survey confirmed indications from in-depth interviews
and focus group discussions that, in many of the surveyed buildings (in 59% of the cases), people
supplement district heating with heat from individual space heaters, primarily, electric heating
equipment. This equipment is being provided based on private initiative of building users.
8.        Insulation. Users of all public buildings weather-strip windows to make rooms
tighter. In 21% of the buildings, users also replaced windows to reduce loss of heat. In 28% of
the cases, people weather-strip doors, whereas they caulk panel joints, cracks or cavities in the
walls to keep rooms warmer in 28% of the cases.
9.        Radiators and Pipes. In many buildings (48%) people see the necessity to replace
radiators. In some buildings, they already have replaced (22%) or plan to replace (24%) wall
radiators to obtain more heat. In 66% of the buildings, people see the necessity to replace pipes.
In 47% of the buildings, people have already replaced or plan to replace (36%) pipes.
10.       Puffing on additional clothes. Often, people put on additional clothes such as
pullovers, coats etc. because the room temperatures are too low: (i) patients in hospitals and
policlinics in 45% of the cases; (ii) medical personnel in hospitals and policlinics in 32% of the
cases; and (iii) teachers and children in schools and kindergartens in 5% of the cases.
G. HEALTH RISKS
11.       In many of the surveyed schools and kindergartens (40%), children are at risk of
becoming sick because the room  temperatures are too low.  This risk tends to apply
disproportionately to children from poor and vulnerable families. As respondents indicate, these
children tend to be more susceptible to low indoor temperatures than children from better-off
families due to less appropriate clothing and inadequate nutrition.



Page 50
H. COLLECTIONS, COST RECOVERY, INDEBTEDNESS
12.        92% of the institutions surveyed owe for heating and hot water services. 82% of
them owe charges for one year or more, 50% owe charges for two years or more, and 4% owe
charges for one year or more. The distribution of the nurnber of monthly payments owed by the
institutions interviewed shows that many of them tend to pay charges in a yearly rhythm: they do
not pay for about 10 to 11 months and then carry out payments when they have accumulated one
year of debts. On average, the agencies surveyed owe 25 monthly payments and pay charges for
2.7 months when they pay. Furthermore, the last time they paid was, on average, 4.8 months ago.
Most of the institutions contacted had an agreement with the heating company, Kievenergo, for
paying back their debts (82% of the agencies). Most of them had arranged with the heating
company to pay back their debts over a period of 5 years. For almost all schools and
kindergartens, the rayon (district) departments of Kiev City are responsible for carrying out the
payments for heat and hot water. Most of the hospitals and polyclinics are directly responsible
for carrying out the payments.
13.        To better understand the failure of the institutions surveyed to pay charges for
heating and hot water services, respondents were confronted with a series of statements
explaining this failure. These explanations had been previously identified in in-depth interviews
and focus group discussions as the key reasons for not paying or not paying on time.
Interviewees could agree or disagree to different extents with the statements presented. Table I
below shows the results obtained.
Table 1: Respondents agreeing or disagreeing to different statements explaining the failure
to pay charges for heating and hot water services
Responses to statements in percent:
Statements                 Disagree or      Indifferent     Agree or
strongly disagr ee              strongly agree
1. The heating company is part of the       19              23             58
state and thus should cover charges.
2. The present service is so bad that it    53              25             22
does not make sense to pay on time.
3. The charges exceed the applicable        57               6             37
costs.
4. Nothing happens if the charges for       77               12            11
heating and hot water are not paid.
14.        The results in the above table suggest that a key reason for not paying appears to be
the belief that the municipal heating company should pay charges because the company is part of
the state. Taking into account insights from in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, lack
of enforcement is another key factor for the failure of institutions to pay charges for heat and hot
water. The disagreement of a large number of institutions with the statement that nothing will
happen if the charges for heating and hot water are not paid is not credible and disguises the true
thinking of the respondents: payments are not carried out on purpose, and respondents think (as



Page 51
indicated above) that the heating company, being part of the state, should pay. According to the
respondents, the low quality of the present service seems not to be a factor relevant for decision
on carrying out payments for heat and hot water. The possibility that charges for heat and hot
water might exceed applicable costs seems to have some relevance in the opinion of the
respondents.
I.  METERING AND CONSERVATION OF HEAT AND HOT WATER
15.       Quantitative data from the survey shows that 83% of the respondents think it would
be better to have a heat meter at the level of each building and pay for the heat actually received.
In addition, 57% of the respondents assume that metering heat would lead to lower levels of heat
consumption and decreased heating bills.
J.   STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION, OWNERSHIP, RISK MITIGATION,
SUSTAINABILITY
16.       Discussions carried out in schools and kindergartens revealed broad scope for
participatory arrangements with parents regarding the objective of increased energy efficiency in
public buildings. Parent representatives are very actively involved in carrying out routine
maintenance tasks in schools, including measures to improve building insulation, due to the lack
of financial resources in many municipal districts. Parents support the schools and kindergartens
of their children through contributions in labor, cash and in kind in over 75% of the schools and
kindergartens contacted.
17.       The engagement of parents in maintaining school buildings could be used to create
ownership of beneficiaries regarding the actions scheduled under the project in schools, reduce
risks and better ensure the sustainability of measures implemented. The benefits from parents'
involvement in maintenance tasks in schools could further be increased by promoting parents'
maintenance supervisory committees and training those committees to carry out routing
maintenance checks.  Also teachers should participate in those maintenance supervisory
committees.
K. GENERATING AWARENESS
18.       The implementation of energy efficiency measures in schools could be used as a
powerful means to generate awareness of energy efficiency among school children at all grade
levels by explaining to students the measures undertaken in the school building, their rationale
and expected benefits. School teachers were highly interested in incorporating lessons on energy
efficiency in their teaching programs. Dissemination of information on energy efficiency in
schools would have a convenient spill-over effect to the families of the students. This effect
could be enhanced by involving parents' associations in the effort of awareness building. Thus
awareness of energy efficiency could also be generated in the population in general and stimulate
willingness to implement measures to save energy in residential apartment buildings.



Page 52
L. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SUPPORT
19.          A social assessment carried out during preparation of the complementary Kiev
District Heating Improvement Project as well as follow-up consultations with a wide range of
stakeholders during preparation of the Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project showed
the need to improve the effectiveness of the social assistance program in place to support low-
income households in paying charges for housing and communal services. Several factors
constrain the effectiveness of the program in place. First, a number of rules and regulations of the
program prevent eligible beneficiaries from applying and thus constrain program coverage.
Second, a number of households receiving assistance do not deserve it because means tests
applied, at present, are predominantly based on official income that imperfectly reflects real
income. Thus, program leakage can be observed. Third, the growing complexity of rules and
regulations makes program operations more and more cumbersome, time-consuming, and costly;
surpasses the capacity of beneficiaries and also of social assistance staff to fully understand the
program; constrains transparency; and jeopardizes identical program application in different
social assistance offices and by different social assistance staff. A specific problem in this
context is that a number of low-income households are not eligible for the social assistance
program because they have considerable amounts of debts accumulated which they are not able to
pay. Fourth, lack of computerized communications and operations of data exchange complicate
and slow down processing of applications for social assistance. Advisory support would be
provided under the Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project to address these issues. In
particular, this support would include measures to improve means testing, review rules and
regulations of the social assistance program, and strengthen computerized communications and
automated data exchange operations.



Page 53
Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ukraine
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of December 6, 1999)
_Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual                Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/         Supervision Ratilng
L                                                         h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
Project ID       Year    Borrower                            Purpose                                                                  .D O
._____    __________________________    ___________________________             IBRD       IDA         Cancel.    I.Undisb        Orig     Frm   Rev'd     Dev   Obj   Imp   Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
UA-PE-38820      1995      GOVT. OF UKRAINE                  HYDROPOWER REHAB.                      114.00    0.00             0.00       79.2        67.1           4.1       5           S
UA-PE-9117       1995      GOVT. OF UKRAINE                  AGRIC. SEED DEVELOPM                    32.00    0.00            10.90        8.5        19.2           0.1       U           S
UA-PE-44110      1996     GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE              COAL PILOT                              16.00    0.00             0.00        5.5         5.4           0.00      S           U
UA-PE-35814      1996     UKRAINE                            ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.                    310.00    0.00             0.00        3.7         3.7           0.00      S           S
UA-PE-45940      1997      UKRAINE                           SOCIAL PROTECT. SUPP                     3.00    0.00             0.00        0.3         0.3           0.00      S           S
UA-PE-44851      1997      STATE EXPORT/IMPORT BANK          EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                      68.00    0.00             0.00       4 8 .4      11.9           0.00      S           S
UA-PE-40564      1997      GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE             COAL SECAL                             300.00    0.00             0.00       70.0        70.0          46.70      S           S
UA-PE-49174      1998      UKRAINE                           TREASURY SYSTEMS                        16.40    0.00             0.00       16.4         5.8           0.00      S           U
UA-PE-44832      1998      UKRAINE                           KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                    200.00    0.00             0.00      199.8         6.4           0.00      S           S
UA-PE-40560      1999      GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE             FINANCIAL SECAL                        300.00    0.00             0.00      100.00       96.7           0.00      S           S
GE-PE-44728      1998                                        OZONE DEPLETING                         17.30    0.00             0.00                                            S           S
1997                                       SEA LAUNCH                             100        0.00            0.00                                            S           S
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced  (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U =
unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901) , August 23,
1994.



Paae 54
Ukraine at a glarnce                                                              9/21/99
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   micidle-
Ukraine      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       50.3       473       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    850      2,190      1.710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      42.7      1,039     1.557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        -0.6        0.1       1.1
Labor force (%)                                       -0.6        0.6       1.5     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992.98)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nafional poverty line)   32
Urban population (% of total population)                72        68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        67        69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                14        23        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              ..         ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  85         ..       75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    ,,         4        14          -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   87       100       103              Ukraine
Male                                                 87        101       105         - --Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               87         99      -100    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              .                53.5      43.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                            ..     21.4      20.7                     Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP                        ..     40.6      39.8                      raOe
Gross domestic savings/GDP                               ..      18.4      1'7.7
Gross national savings/GDP                               ..      18.7      17,6
t,urrent account balance/GDP                   .         .       -2.5      -'3.0s.tic
Interest payments/GDP                           ,        .        1.0       1.0                    4             Investment
Total debtWGDP                                           ..      20.8      29.3     Savings
Total debt serviceiexports                              ..        6.5     11 .9
Present value of debt/GDP                      .         .       21.0
Present value of debt/exports                   .        ..      50.8
indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999433
(average annual growth)
GDP                             :      .    -10. i  -3.0         -1.7       2.7               Ukraine
GNP per capita                        ..   -10.3      -2.2       -1.l6      3.5              Lower-middle-income group
Exorts of goods and serices           ..    -2.8      -3.0      -13.0       3.1                                         :'
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (h)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     .     21.7       14.4      14.4
Industry                                       ..    47.1       34.3       34.4
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       28.4      28.7  :                                5
Services                                        ..    31.2      51.3       51 .2
Private consumption                                     ..      54.2      56.2    -60
General government consumption                           ..     27.4      26.1 1GOI    | :  GDP
Imports of goods and services                   .        ..     43.7      42.8
197747  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..    -5.8        -0.9      -3.2    150-
Industry                                       ..   -15.5       -3.0       -0.7    100 s
Manufacturing                                ..   -15.5        -3.0      -0. 7     o -
Services                                       ..    -3.1        -5.8      -2.5        '
Private consumption                            ..    -9.2        -1.6       2.0 -1    0
General govemment consumption                  ..    -4.4        -2.3      -6.5
Gross domestic investment                      ..   -24.8         0.3      -5.( )       -
Imports of gcods and services                  ..    -1.3       -3.0    -14.t)                    Expsorts    e  Imports
Gross national product                          .    -10.5      -3.0       -2.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 55
Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                           6,000
Consumer prices                                  -        -       15.9      10.6    4QX0 0
Implicit GDP deflator                                      .      18.1      13.2
Government finance                                                                   2,000
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0--o
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      38.0      35.6               93   94   9S   v6   97   93
Current budget balance                           .         ,       -5.0     -2.0              -     GDP defistor  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          .                 -5.6     -2.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              .        .     15,418    13,699     25.000
Ferrous and non-ferrous metals                  .        .     5,904     5,336
Food items and raw materials                   ..        .      1,802     1,379    , 20.000
Manufactures                                                   2,613     2,393      is o        m         -
Total imports (cif)                              .        .     19,623    16,283
Food                                                             898      1,052
Fuel and energy                                                3 8280    6,170      5,000
Capital goods                                  .        ..     3,687     3,172 
92  03  04  05  96  97  04a
Export price index (1995=100)                    .        ..        99        96    1
Importprice index (1995=100)                    ..        ..       107       102   .              Exports      cimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..                 93        94                      __
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1197      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)                                                                      I
Exports of goods and services                                   20,355    17,621      0
Imports of goods and services                    .        ..    2,9       18.2 
Resource balance                                                -1,536    -1,
Net income                                                                   20.-44 -71                            ",1  
Net current transfers                           ..        ..       845       782    -2
Current account balance                         ..        ..   -1,335    -1,296
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..      1,718       -28
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ..      -383     1,324     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..      2,359       793
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 ..       ..       1.7       2.4
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        ..    11,096    12,783
IBRD                                           ,        .,     1,111     1,542                     G 48r0   A 1,542
IDA                                           ..       ..          0         0
Total debt service                               .        ..     1,356     2,160
IBRD                                           ..      ..         59        68
IDA                                                               _0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F: 4,798
Official grants                               ..       ..         71        ..7 _ 
Official creditors                             .        ..         5       253
Private creditors                              ..      ..        795     1,439
Foreign direct investment                      ..      ..        623      743                                VD: 443
Portfolio equity                               .        ..       248       227
World Bank program                                                                    A - lBRD                      E - Bilateral
Commitments                                   ..       ..      1,011       697      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Disbursements                                  .        ..       306       385      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Principal repayments                          ,.       ,.          0         0
Net flows                                                        306       385              ..
Interest payments                             ..       ..         59        68
Net transfers                                 ..        .        247       317
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/21/99






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30087
20'                                              25,                                                W                                                 35'                            UKRAINE            40
I                          BEI.ARUS                                       ( -~    /           RUSSIAN                            KIEV  PUBLIC  BUILDINGS
j   BELARUS                                                      FEDERATION                      ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
/>                                                                     \t             \                  /    /                                      @       PROJECT CITY
_____ROADS
---   -RAILROADS
POLAND                                                                                                          N '0'"                                                              SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIESLDC
To W.,-  Kovel     i      .  /Sorny                                                               not            ;                                 >    t3t  $     0Ch,v  <  ,   To Moscow  -  AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
OBLAST BOUNDARIES
jChornobyT',                                                  *       ToMosco-,         -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
50'  To Krocoo'  /                                                                                                                                  Khor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      50'rst
"'IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
REUBI              FF  Te0or                                      Knenysy                   ,. is,v              \Ceks                     , olA                                              \Robj iz
-.budue,ur eomlos UzhO=,horGod                                ,,,on)\ rvs-->\ <\                        Umi/                                    .8     ; Reevol               .amtriup~khol             Lr a
R,,alir ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                           v,,            eos~e            T
-50,                                                                                                                                                                       50'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MS.k      O~
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SLOVAK                                                                 yl K   encelslhbs1noeY Tr Sd, k >      yoav,5/</--
Russ"'"' ~ ~    ~      ~      ls 
eo RUSINouhb FDEATION                                          I                             Diist~ts                         r, oKshnoer       hekopos , ?''
\_ THr 'J -  I -                                                                                                         en
i~~~bo                      fr  ivg<4  :X)!RSSA
virn.rn -.4he,
POLAND                             .                         _                           _,_, >'   > _ 45r  ; J-mct ~,;oiiOyq : t9lriD    k/    4k5iv
HUNGAK)                                                                                                                                           "i Rik 
sIr;' UKRAINE  g           4  9          '    <>; Appjr'oxsmato ANepoofsi                                                                                         ,
-'e    ROMANIA   \ V}                                                         t                                   ; 0 RO A I                                                        KILOMETE
MOS,T Y*'- -iOt(t . _  _'                                                                                                                                                                                          I ' _   \S
M _    BULGARIA                                GEORGIA       BULGARIA                                                             n -                                                      M0LE1
L AFYRJ GR.EE,,T k                TURKEY          -       '                                             30                                                                                        M  PILES9
RUSSIAN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL191



