Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4534 UA
Loan Agreement
(Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 25, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4534 UA
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2000, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Government of Sweden has agreed to extend a grant  to the Kiev City 
State Administration (Kiev CSA) in a principal amount equivalent up to two million 
Dollars ($2,000,000) (the Swedish Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the relevant arrangement; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Kiev CSA with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Kiev CSA, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Kiev CSA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Kiev CSA Fiscal Year” means a year commencing on January 1 and ending on 
December 31. 
(b)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in Section 6.01 
(b) of this Loan Agreement and Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement. 
(c)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Kiev CSA of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(d)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. 
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(f)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means  the agreement to be entered into 
between the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, acting as a representative of the 
Borrower, and Kiev CSA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
(g)
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Kiev CSA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighteen 
million two hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($18,290,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Parts A.1(a) and B.1(b) of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A.1(a) and B.1(b) of the 
Project open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
hundred eighty two thousand and nine hundred Dollars ($182,900).  On or promptly after 
the effective Date, the Bank shall on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of the said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Kiev CSA to perform in accordance 
Page  4
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Kiev CSA therein 
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken actions necessary or appropriate to enable 
Kiev CSA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Kiev CSA under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the 
following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 
in Dollars 
and shall be repaid by Kiev CSA to the Borrower in 
semi-annual installments 
over twelve years, including a grace period of 
five years; 
(ii)
a fee in an amount specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement 
shall be 
charged and shall be  payable upon the date of 
effectiveness of the Subsidiary 
Loan; 
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to 
time pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this 
Agreement plus a margin 
not to exceed one percent (1%); and 
(iv)
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the 
Subsidiary 
Loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
from time to time 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Parts A.1(a) and B.1(b) of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, an action plan 
ensuring further energy efficiency under the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by Kiev CSA pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
Page  5
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Kiev CSA shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Kiev CSA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The right of the Kiev CSA to withdraw the proceeds of  the Swedish Grant  
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the arrangement providing therefor, provided, however, that the provisions of 
this paragraph shall not apply if the Kiev CSA establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Kiev CSA to perform any of its obligations under such arrangements; and 
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and  
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c ) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of the said paragraph. 
Page  6
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
executed by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine acting as a representative of the 
Borrower and Kiev CSA;  
(b)
Kiev CSA shall have established the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) 
with structure, functions and staffing, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall have 
appointed a Project Director to head the PIU with terms of reference, qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c)
Kiev CSA shall have submitted to the Bank bidding documents, satisfactory 
to the Bank, for procurement of energy efficiency equipment for the first group of 
buildings to be addressed by the Project during the first year of implementation.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Kiev 
CSA and is legally binding upon Kiev CSA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and Kiev CSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Kiev CSA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky Street
Kiev, 252008
Ukraine
Telex:
131450
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UKRAINE
By /s/ Konstantin Grishchenko 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Luca Barbone 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part A.1(a)
  5,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Goods and works 
under Supply 
and Install 
Contracts under 
Part A.1(a)
(i) Goods
   9,282,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Page  8
(ii) Works
   2,618,000
80%
(3)
Works under Part A.1(a)
   1,100,000
80%
(4)
Audit Services Under 
Part B.1(b) of the Project      100,000
100%
(5)
Fee
     182,900
Amount due under 
section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
7,100
TOTAL
  18,290,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “audit services” means cost of audits required under Section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
November 5, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 
equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) goods and works under supply and install contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; and (iv) audit services under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the energy efficiency of key 
municipal public buildings located in Kiev, including schools, kindergartens, 
hospitals, cultural centers and administrative buildings, through a package of 
technical improvements and sound heat tariffs policies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Energy Efficiency Improvements In Buildings
1.
Retrofitting about 1300 public buildings located in Kiev, including schools, 
kindergartens, hospitals, cultural centers and administrative buildings, with 
energy-saving measures, including:  
(a)
installation of heat substation automation, weather-stripping, radiator 
reflectors, ceiling fans, faucet flow restrictors, low-flow shower heads, hot water 
heat exchangers, riser-balancing valves and other energy-saving measures; and 
(b)
installation of building heat meters.
Page  9
2.
Carrying out of: (i) technical energy-consumption audits of the buildings 
targeted for retrofitting measures under Part A.1; and (ii) the necessary technical 
designs of, and preparation of detailed specifications and bidding documents for, the 
retrofitting measures to be carried out  under Part A.1 in the said buildings.
Part B:
Institutional Support and Public Awareness
1.
Support for Project implementation through: 
(a)
provision of technical assistance for the PIU; 
(b)
funding of financial audits required under the Project;
(c)
provision of training to: (i) PIU managers, managers of public buildings, 
maintenance personnel and interested local consultants, on performing technical 
energy-consumption audits of buildings and designing retrofit energy-saving measures 
for the said buildings; and (ii) contractors on bidding process for the supply and 
install contracts for building retrofits; and  
(d)
provision of office equipment, computers and software for the PIU. 
2.
Improving social assistance programs in Kiev through improving means testing, 
reviewing applicable rules and regulations and improving computerization and automated 
data exchange operation of the agencies responsible for provision of social 
assistance. 
3.
Designing and carrying out a public awareness campaign in schools and through 
mass media to promote energy efficiency.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
June 15, 2006
530,000 
December 15, 2006
545,000 
June 15, 2007
560,000 
December 15, 2007
580,000 
June 15, 2008
595,000 
December 15, 2008
615,000 
June 15, 2009
635,000 
December 15, 2009
650,000 
June 15, 2010
670,000 
December 15, 2010
695,000 
June 15, 2011
715,000 
December 15, 2011
735,000 
June 15, 2012
755,000 
December 15, 2012
780,000 
June 15, 2013
805,000 
December 15, 2013
830,000 
June 15, 2014
855,000 
December 15, 2014
880,000 
June 15, 2015
905,000 
December 15, 2015
935,000 
June 15, 2016
960,000 
December 15, 2016
990,000 
June 15, 2017
     l,020,000 
December 15, 2017
     1,050,000
_______________________
Page  10
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and equipment under supply and install contracts  
required for Part A.1(a) of the Project and audit services required under Part B.1(b) 
of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  11
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible, 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part A 
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
