Report No. PID6735
Project Name                     Ukraine-Kiev Public Buildings Energy (+)
Efficiency Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       UAPA55739
Borrower                         Republic of Ukraine
Implementing Agencies            State Committee for Energy Conservation
1, Gonty St., Kiev, 252112, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. G. Babyiev,
Deputy Chairman
Telephone No.:   (044) 446 81 83
Facsimile No.:   (044) 442 52 71
Date This PID Prepared           April 14, 1998
Projected Appraisal
Date                             June 1998
Projected Board Date             December 1998
Sector Background
1.      District heating (DH) systems provide the majority of heat and hot water
supply in Ukraine's urban areas as well as steam for industry. These systems
utilize primarily gas and some mazut, which during the period of the Soviet
regime were provided primarily from Russia at very low prices and at virtually
unlimited supply. As the cost of these fuels have increased over the past
four years while incomes have not kept pace, this has created a situation
where the DH service has become difficult to afford and service levels have
had to be reduced. In addition, many of the DH systems are in excess of 40
years old and have not been subject to the normal process of upgrading and
modernization which takes place in Western systems.
2.      In Kiev, a significant number of public buildings, especially schools and
hospitals, are connected to DH. These buildings generally consume far more
energy for heating and hot water than public buildings in Western Europe.
This is primarily due to the low quality of construction materials, often poor
insulation, types of windows, and absence of measurement and control equipment
for the heating substations in buildings. The "Energy Saving Program for
Buildings" elaborated by the Ukrainian institute, KievZNIIEP, estimates the
energy savings potential as high as about 459.   There is therefore an urgent
need to improve the energy efficiency of key public buildings in order to
reduce demand for DH and improve the quality and reliability of heating and
hot water services.
Objectives
3.      Against this background, the main objective of the proposed project would
be to improve the energy efficiency of priority public buildings and reduce
heat demand and thus the need for expansion of heat production capacity in
Kiev.



Description
4.      The proposed project might consist of the following components:
(a)     Kiev public buildings energy efficiency improvement program,
including improvements to insulation, regulation and control systems, and
windows, and installation of control valves and a two-pipe system for
radiators;
(b)     institutional support program, including training, equipment and
technical services to support project implementation and promote public
awareness for the need for energy conservation.
5.      It is estimated that the amount of the loan would be about US$ 40
million.  It is recommended that the loan finance about 809 of total project
cost (net), as the project agencies have limited capability to contribute to
the capital cost of the project. Donor support is being sought for
implementation support and for promoting public awareness.
Implementation
6.      Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of Kiev
Municipality and the Ministries of Health and Education. Given the number of
project agencies involved, project coordination responsibilities have been
assigned to the State Committee for Energy Conservation. Performance
indicators for each project objective will be defined during project
appraisal. Supervision requirements will be identified during project
appraisal.
Sustainability
7.      The institutional and financial sustainability of the project would be
analyzed and supported through: capacity building of project agencies to
evaluate technical options and prioritize investments based on economic
considerations, and other measures to be identified for inclusion under the
institutional support program for project agencies.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      The proposed project would represent the first energy efficiency
investment loan to Ukraine.
The Bank's experience in implementing similar energy efficiency projects is
somewhat limited to two projects in Russia and Lithuania focused mainly on
residential buildings, currently ongoing. The Lithuania project also included
a small ($2.2 million) component to support energy efficiency measures in
schools in Vilnius and Kaunas. The Kaunas component has been implemented in
three schools and has resulted in considerably increased comfort levels, with
energy savings currently being monitored. This effort has confirmed that
energy savings through investments directed at larger buildings under single
ownership can be achieved more quickly and easily than through investments in
residential buildings under multiple ownership.
9.      The Russia project has highlighted that utility companies typically do
not read meters, as billing has been based on norms with bills prepared by
municipal house maintenance organizations.     Installation of meters must
- 2 -



therefore be accompanied by support for utilities to change their billing and
meter reading practices in order for energy savings to be realized by the end-
user. Furthermore, this project showed that clear steps for monitoring energy
savings need to be developed prior to project implementation. These lessons
are being considered during the preparation period of the proposed project and
will be discussed in more detail during appraisal.
Poverty Category
10.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
11.     Implementation of the project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through reduced atmospheric emissions in Kiev and
reduced consumption of natural gas and mazut in district heating plants for
the same service levels. A preliminary estimate for gas savings for the
project is in the order of 48 million m3 annually, and for mazut savings in
the order of 9,000 tons annually. These fuel savings would result in
reductions of S02 by 230 tons, NOx by 330 tons, and C02 by 85,400 tons
annually. The project has been placed in environmental screening category
"B," under which an environmental review and mitigation plan would be
prepared.
Program Objective Category
12.     The project is classified under the category of EN/GX - environmentally
sustainable development/other energy (100%).
Contact Point:           Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 473-9681 (tel)
(202) 477-8518 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending: August 14, 1998
-3 -



Annex
The energy efficiency retrofit components would focus on improving energy efficiency;
environmental issues are principally restricted to the selection of materials for
insulation and
the disposal of waste, possibly asbestos. The heat production plants currently
support the use
of natural gas.
During installation of energy efficiency measures, asbestos may be found in
old thermal insulations in which case the local regulations or EU standards
for asbestos removal shall be followed. In the new installations, only
thermal insulation materials having a zero ozone depletion factor will be
used.
An environmental review would be prepared for the Kiev energy efficiency
improvement program and it would include preparation of an environmental
mitigation plan.
The energy efficiency component would focus directly on the improvement in the
use of energy. The potential impacts from the project would be generally
positive; potential adverse impacts would be highly localized and could be
effectively addressed through an environmental mitigation plan.
- 4 -



