Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4534 UA
Project Agreement
(Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KIEV CITY STATE ADMINISTRATION
Dated April 25, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4534 UA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and KIEV CITY STATE ADMINISTRATION (Kiev CSA). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Ukraine (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to eighteen million two hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($18,290,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Kiev CSA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan agreement to be entered into between the Ministry of 
Finance of Ukraine, acting as a representative of the Borrower, and Kiev CSA, the 
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to 
Kiev CSA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Kiev CSA, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term “UAH” or 
“Hrivnya” means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. Kiev CSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and municipal practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 2.02. Kiev CSA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kiev CSA shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for Part A.1(a) of the Project and audit services required for Part 
B.1(b) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. Kiev CSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project. 
Section 2.05. (a)  Kiev CSA shall maintain until Project completion a PIU as a 
separate legal entity with functions and responsibilities agreed with the Bank. 
(b)
Kiev CSA shall ensure that the PIU is at all times: (i) headed by an 
experienced Project Director; (ii) has adequate staff; and (iii) assisted by 
consultants, as needed, all with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 2.06. (a) Kiev CSA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Kiev CSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Kiev CSA of its obligations under this 
Project Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07.  Kiev CSA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
Page  3
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Kiev CSA shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and Kiev CSA, an action 
plan ensuring further energy 
efficiency under the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Kiev CSA on 
said plan.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Kiev CSA shall establish not later than March 31, 2000, and 
thereafter at all times maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A.1(a) and 
B.1(b) of the Project.
(b)
Kiev CSA shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Kiev CSA shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
Kiev CSA shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c)(i) of 
this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
Page  4
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Kiev CSA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar semester a Project Management Report for such period, each of which: 
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
Section 3.03. Kiev CSA shall: 
(a)
regulate heat tariffs in the city of Kiev with the objective to cover the 
reasonable costs of heat supply provided by the heat supply organizations;  
(b)
reduce its arrears of payment for heating bills received prior to January 
1, 1998, in accordance with a debt restructuring schedule requiring payment of the 
remaining balance of UAH 21.8 million by December 31, 2000; 
(c)
ensure the settlement of heating bills for the buildings under the 
Project on a timely basis as a highest priority; and 
(d)
give priority in retrofitting to the buildings with good performance in 
settlement of their heating bills. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Kiev CSA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Kiev CSA thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Kiev CSA:
Kiev City State Administration
36, Khreschatic Street
Kiev, 252044
Ukraine
Facsimile:
380 44 228 
0661
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Kiev CSA, may 
be taken or executed by the Head of Kiev CSA or such other person or persons as the 
Head of Kiev CSA shall designate in writing, and Kiev CSA shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Luca Barbone 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
Page  6
KIEV CITY STATE ADMINISTRATION
By /s/ Viktor Padalka 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works, including goods and works under supply and install, contracts 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 
1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (i) goods and works 
under supply and install contracts; and (ii) goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to: (i) goods under supply and install 
contracts; and (ii) goods awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to: (i) goods under supply and install contracts; and (ii) other 
goods, manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts, procured under the Loan, the procedures set forth 
Page  7
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Least Cost Selection
Audit services under Part B.1(b) of the Project, which are estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of audit firms estimated to 
cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the audit firms shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
