Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19048
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2428-GH)
March 17, 1999
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 31, 1999)
Currency Unit            =       Cedi
US$1.00                  =       Cedi 2,373
SDR 1                           US$1.33
US$1                     =       SDR.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
JAMB              Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board
MIS               Management Information System
MOE               Ministry of Education
NAB               National Accreditation Board
NABPTEX           National Board for Professional and Technician Examinations
NCTE              National Council for Tertiary Education
PMU               Project Management Unit
SDR               Standard Drawing Rights
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:  Peter Harrold (AFC 10)
Sector Manager:   Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader: William Saint (AFTH3)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2428-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .....................................................................1I
INTRODUCTION ......................................................................1
A.        COUNTRY CONTEXT ......................................................................1
B.        IDA'S ROLE rN THE GHANA EDUCATION SECTOR ...................................................................... I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................................2
A.        STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................................2
B.        ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................................2
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ....................................................................5
A.        MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ......................................................................5
B.        PROJECT SUSTArNABILITY ......................................................................7
C.        BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................................................7
D.        BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................................8
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .................8
A.        ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ......................................................................8
B.        FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................................................................9
C.        KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................................9
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments
Table 2:         Related Bank Credits
Table 3:         Project Timetable
Table 4:         Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:         Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6:         Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:        Credit Amount (by expenditure category)
Table 7B:        Project Financing
Table 8:         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:         Status of Legal Covenants.
Table 10:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11 A:   Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1 B:   Bank Resources: Supervision Missions
Appendices:             A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's contribution to the ICR
C. Map of project sites (IBRD Map No. 24061)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2428-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ghana Tertiary Education
Project, for which Credit 2428-GH in the amount of SDR 31.2 million equivalent was
approved on October 27, 1992 and made effective on January 8, 1993.
The credit was closed on September 30, 1998 after one extension from the original
closing date of December 31, 1997. It was fully disbursed by January 31, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by William Saint, Human Development 3 of the Africa Region,
and reviewed on March 8, 1999 in a meeting chaired by Mr. Peter Harrold, Country
Director for Ghana. The Borrower provided its own report which appears as an appendix
to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in February
1998 and completed during final discussions with the Borrower and key stakeholder
groups in September 1998 and February 1999. It is based on a commissioned project
assessment and on materials in the project file. The Borrower helped to prepare the ICR
by commissioning its own evaluation of the project's accomplishments, contributing its
Project Completion Report and the views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and
commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2428-GiH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.     Introduction. Agreements for a Tertiary Education Project of SDR 31.2
million were signed on November 11, 1992 and became effective on January 8, 1993.
The credit was designed as a five-year sector investment project in support of tertiary
education reforms proposed under Government's overall education system re-structuring
begun in 1986. The project started slowly due to a post-election changes in Ministry of
Education (MOE) leadership, but performed normally after that. In September 1997 the
closing date was extended for nine months to September 30, 1998 so that local training
and installation of a computerized management information system could be completed.
2.     Bank's Role in the Sector. The Bank has been an active supporter of national
educational reform in Ghana since 1986. A series of 8 operations totaling $291.6 million
have progressively addressed all aspects of the educational system.
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The project sought to assist the
Government of Ghana to improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research
among the country's universities and polytechnics, and to sustain these improvements
financially through increases in cost-recovery and management efficiency at the level of
the institutions. Project components comprised the provision of scientific books and
journals, laboratory and teaching equipment, staff development, a research fund,
computerized management information system (\4MIS) development for the universities, a
new university college of education, several new policy formulation and quality
monitoring bodies, classroom construction, and building rehabilitation.
4.     Credit Covenants and Special Agreements.  Credit covenants bound both
the Ministry of Education and the tertiary institutions to performance targets outlined in
Government's letter of development policy. These outcome goals were reinforced by
parallel memoranda of understanding between the Ministry of Education and the tertiary
institutions. These instruments sought greater efficiency in institutional staffing and
budget management while increasing institutional revenues from student cost-sharing.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Project objectives were clear and highly
relevant to the future development of the country's higher education sub-sector. They
were based on considerable prior Government initiated planning and consultation
concerning the thrust and extent of the proposed reforms. But as the country moved into
more democratic governance in the 1990s, the project's reform agenda failed to maintain
the political support needed for it to achieve some of its politically more difficult aims.



IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
6.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The prospects for project
sustainability are uncertain unless tertiary enrollment growth and tertiary financing can
be brought into balance. The rise in university enrollments, the creation of four new
polytechnics, slow progress in cost-sharing, and the inability to re-structure the student
loan program do not augur well for the sustainability of project inputs to boost
educational quality. In this context, increased institutional capacities, better management
mechanisms, greater public awareness of key issues, and an improved but still imperfect
policy framework may not be sufficient to preserve the project's investment.
7.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total project cost was
US$ 51.0 million. IDA provided US$ 44.8 million. The Government of Ghana
contributed US$ 4.8 million in matching funds and US$ 1.4 million in waivers of duty
and taxes. In addition, the African Development Bank awarded US$ 15 million in
parallel project financing.
8.     Implementation Schedule. The Credit was designed as a five-year investment
project. It closed on September 30, 1998 after a nine-month extension from the original
closing date of December 31, 1997. It was fully disbursed by January 31, 1999.
9.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Achievement of the
main project objectives was constrained by five factors. Insufficient political will to
control enrollment growth and to increase cost-recovery was the primary constraint.
Secondary difficulties included freqjuent leadership changes in the Ministry of Education
and the tertiary institutions, inadequate project communications, insufficient matching
funds, and delays in a parallel tertiary education project financed by the African
Development Bank which led to sequencing problems in the timely provision of inputs.
10.    Assessment of the Borrower's and IDA's Performance. The Borrower's
performance was barely satisfactory in pursuit of the project's development objectives,
but highly satisfactory in the implementation of project activities. IDA's overall
performance is judged to have been satisfactory.
11.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Ghana Tertiary Education Project has
produced mixed results. It achieved major objectives related to institutional
development, management efficiency, greater autonomy and improved accountability,
but failed to attain a key goal--sustainable financing of the tertiary system. On this basis,
it is rated as barely "satisfactory."



iii
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Key lessons learned from the project experience are summarized below:
(a) Tertiary education projects are unusual in that their beneficiary institutions--the
universities--are generally stronger, better endowed, and more capable than
other public institutions. In addition, they possess an organized and influential
constituency of staff, students, and alumni who can act as powerful interest
groups. For these reasons, broad consultation and institutional participation is
essential not only in project design, but also continuously throughout the
implementation of the project. This implies higher supervision costs.
(b) Managed expansion of tertiary enrollments is absolutely critical for maintaining
educational quality, yet political circumstances often make it difficult for
governments to exercise this control--even when bound to do so by legal
covenants in the Credit Agreement. For this reason, Bank staff should take
strong measures at the first indication that enrollment growth is exceeding
government's capacity to finance this expansion. Total recurrent expenditure
per student is recommended as a main performance indicator for monitoring the
balance between enrollment growth and the capacity to finance expansion
without loss of quality.
(c) Where improvement in the quality of tertiary education is an explicit project
objective, relevant performance indicators which measure student learning (e.g.,
standard examination results) should be identified or created in order to
effectively monitor project impact.
(d) It has proven very difficult for the finance arm of government to recognize and
affirm education sector and institutional priorities in the allocation of public
resources. Both project and Bank staff are therefore advised to foster good
communication and close working relationships with the Ministry of Finance and
its sister agencies (e.g., Auditor General) throughout the project period.
(e) Bank staff recognize the potential of tertiary students to stalemate processes of
tertiary reform, particularly with regard to financial issues such as cost-sharing,
student privileges, student loans, and scholarships. However, the transitory
status of students and frequent turnover in student leadership make effective
consensus-building with students difficult to attain. Consequently, any
agreements reached are likely to be temporary. For this reason, it is
recommended that mechanisms for continuous communication and consultation
with student representatives be explicitly incorporated into project design.



iv
(f)  When Bank-supported projects are expected to include parallel financing by
another donor, care should be taken to ensure that each donor-financed
component can be implemented independent of the other. This is because the
difficulties of coordinating procurement, no-objections, and disbursements by
two separate funding institutions are nearly insurmountable.
(g)  The introduction of computerized management information systems was a
"tpioneering" experience in Ghana, and numerous lessons were learned: (i)
establish essential infrastructure (phone lines; networked computers) before
launching the introduction of MIS; (ii) use the above process to identify and
foster local "champions"; (iii) familiarize middle managers with computer
technology early in the project; (iv) obtain institutional commitments to cover
system maintenance costs; and (v) only after the above has been done should
the big choices regarding system design be undertaken. This means that the
selection of technical assistance for project management should be carried out
earlier and separately from the choice of software (which should involve
university participation).
(h)  Government and the Bank acquired useful experience in the management of a
Research Fund which can guide similar efforts in the future: (i) research funds
should be managed by an institution with a mandate for and commitment to
research, not by the project implementation unit or parent ministry; (ii) research
proposals should be invited from university departments rather than from
individuals to enhance capacity building benefits and to enable greater
accountability through involvement of university finance officers; and (iii)
technical evaluators of research proposals should be paid enough to ensure
timely responses.
(i)  Short term and in-service training in professional management techniques for
staff at all levels of management should be a continuous activity throughout the
life of any higher education project.
(j)  Project accounting lessons are three: (i) maintain project accounts in SDRs
from inception in order to avoid exchange rates surprises in the final year; (ii)
divide accounting tasks among two or more accountants to ensure internal
controls and staffing continuity through illness or departures; and (iii) do not
economize on project management funding by skimping on accounting
capacity.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2428-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
A.     COUNTRY CONTEXT
1.     During the 1990s, the Government of Ghana has given a very high priority to
education. Recognizing that human capital fonnation is essential for national economic
growth, the Government launched a comprehensive education reform in 1987.
Subsequently, it has committed over one-third of its budget annually to the education
sector. The reform re-structured primary and secondary education, revised curriculum,
and shortened the period of schooling from 17 to 12 years. It also expanded secondary
education, established a national adult literacy program, increased the number of
universities and polytechnics, and emphasized science education throughout the system.
These changes were followed in 1994 by the introduction of "free, compulsory and
universal basic education." At the same time, education system management has been
steadily decentralized to the district level and greater community involvement has been
encouraged. Although performance indicators have improved somewhat in comparison
with the pre-1987 period, significant difficulties remain. Learning outcomes for all levels
are poor, enrollment growth in basic education is slow, and students are inadequately
prepared for employment.
B.     IDA'S ROLE IN THE GHANA EDUCATION SECTOR
2.     The International Development Association (IDA) support for Ghana's education
reform program has been substantial, totaling US$ 291.6 million since 1987. Following
an initial emergency Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-GH, US$5 million for
education), IDA extended re-structuring assistance through the First and Second
Education Sector Adjustment Credits (EdSAC-I, Cr. 1744-GH, US$34.5 million; EdSAC-
II, Cr. 2140-GH, US$50 million). EdSAC-I focused on initiating reforms at the primary
and junior secondary education levels. EdSAC-II consolidated reforms in basic education
and extended them into senior secondary education. Subsequent investment credits
targeted specific sub-sector development: primary education (Cr. 2508-GH, US$65.1
million), senior secondary education (Cr. 2278-GH, US$15 million), tertiary education
(Cr. 2428-GH, US$45 million), adult literacy (Cr. 2349-GH, US$17.4 million), and
vocational training in the informal sector (Cr. 2695-GH, US$9.6 million). In 1996 a
multi-donor Basic Education Sector Improvement Program supported implementation of
universal basic education (Cr. 2885-GH, US$50 million). Recently, Ghana became a
participant in the Bank-led Worldlink and African Virtual University programs which
seek to incorporate information and telecommunications technology into secondary and
tertiary education.



2
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.      STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The Tertiary Education Project supported the first phase of the Government's
educational reform program at the tertiary level. It sought to assist the Government of
Ghana to improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research among the country's
universities and polytechnics, and to sustain these improvements financially through
increases in cost-recovery and management efficiency at the level of the institutions. Its
five main components were: (i) to increase educational quality and relevance in tertiary
institutions; (ii) to establishfinancing arrangements within the tertiary system capable of
maintaining quality as enrollments increased; (iii) to gradually expand access to tertiary
education; (iv) to improve management efficiency in resource use; and (v) to establish
institutional capacities for system monitoring and evaluation.
4.     Project objectives were well defined, but in some cases proved to be beyond the
political capabilities of the Ministry of Education. Considerable prior analysis and
consultation by the Ministry produced clear project objectives that were highly relevant
for the future development of tertiary education and for national capacity-building.
Moreover, the objectives were feasible in light of the Ministry of Education's existing
plans and manageable within the project's five-year time frame. But in retrospect, the
totality of project objectives, when operationalized into numerous discrete (and
sometimes politically sensitive) covenanted agreements, exceeded the Ministry's
implementation capacities. This was particularly true for cost-sharing and loan scheme
re-structuring, as the project was caught up in economic uncertainties and public policy
debates accompanying political liberalization.
B.     ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Arriving at a single summary assessment of project objectives is difficult because
they are not of equal importance. Yet the weighting assigned to each objective is
frequently a judgment which varies among individuals. To inform this judgment,
evidence of what the Government of Ghana achieved is summarized below. It is based on
performance indicators incorporated as covenants to the Credit Agreement (see Table 9)
and used as tools for project supervision (see Table 5).
6.    Educational quality and relevance. The tertiary reform responded to a widely
perceived decline in educational quality and relevance during the 1980s, and the project
addressed this concern in four ways. First, it provided large inputs of instructional
materials (76,108 books, 1,472 annual scientific journal subscriptions, and 4,200 pieces of
scientific equipment) to enhance teaching effectiveness and facilitate student learning.
Second, it directly addressed the relevance of the polytechnic curriculum through seven
technical assistance postings designed to update course objectives, organization and
practical training. To the same end, it also undertook a substantial staff development
program in the polytechnics (112 beneficiaries) to strengthen the foundation for increased
offerings of Higher National Diploma courses. Meanwhile, Government established



3
polytechnic councils with strong private sector representation to oversee the relevance of
these institutional programs. Third, the project provided professional development
opportunities for 216 university staff and skills upgrading courses in pedagogical
techniques. For similar reasons, it established a research fund which sought to introduce
greater Ghanaian content into university teaching through support for 32 separate
investigations. Fourth, it established a National Accreditation Board to monitor the
quality of educational programs on a permanent basis. All of this should have given a
noticeable boost to the quality of tertiary education.
7.    But Government undermined its investments in quality by reducing the tertiary
sub-sector share of the education budget by one-fifth (from 15% in 1992 to 12% during
the life of the project) and by postponing politically contentious decisions on student cost-
sharing. Resulting cuts in funding during a period of enrollment growth were clearly
counterproductive. In 1990, for example, the government expended nearly US$2,500
(755,800 cedis) per university student for recurrent items, and US$180 (70,000 cedis) per
polytechnic student. But by 1998, per student recurrent expenditures at universities had
fallen to roughly US$900 (2,002,200 cedis), and at the polytechnics to just US$78
(178,200 cedis). Expressed in constant 1990 cedis, the 1998 expenditures were 277,032
cedis for universities and 24,656 cedis for polytechnics - a decline of roughly two-thirds.
Over the same period, average salaries for university academic staff fell in real terms by
45%, prompting staff departures and fostering low morale among those who remained.
These examples suggest that quality improvements in tertiary education have been much
less than they would have been if the Government's budgetary commitment had been
maintained. Indeed, world experience indicates that current funding levels for both
universities and polytechnics are too low to permit credible tertiary education to occur.'
8.      Sustainablefinancing.  The key to expanding enrollments while maintaining
educational quality is to establish financial arrangements capable of sustaining a balance
between growth and quality over time. To this end, the Credit Agreement sought to
expand funding for tertiary education by introducing full-cost hostel fees, raising
academic charges, and re-structuring the student loan program to reduce public subsidies
and increase the repayment rate. These goals were attained only in part. Notably, the
non-viable student loan scheme remained untouched at project completion, having
generated a deficit of US$16 million for the public purse.2 Nevertheless, Government
succeeded, following extensive public debate, in introducing hostel fees of US$65 for the
1998/99 academic year, which cover roughly 25 percent of the full cost of student
accommodation. Likewise, polytechnics and universities have gradually established cost-
recovery charges of US$50 to US$80 per student. This amount contributes nearly 5
lPer student expenditure is, of course, a rather crade indicator of educational quality. It provides no
information on the effectiveness of institutional management, the qualifications of academic staff, the
adequacy of teaching equipment and physical facilities, the pertinence of library holdings, or the output of
researchers. Still, the decline in per student expenditures has been so dramatic that it is impossible to
imagine how educational quality might have remained unaffected.
2 A high level committee has been appointed to recommend appropriate re-structuring of the student loan
program; its report is expected in early 1999.



4
percent of overall recurrent costs. Although these cost-sharing gains were achieved in the
face of considerable political opposition, they are not sufficient to stabilize a financing
problem of the present magnitude.
9.     Access. With a tertiary enrollment ratio of less than 3 percent, Ghanaians expect
access to higher education to increase substantially. But if enrollment growth is not
accompanied by a commensurate rise in budgets and efficiency, educational quality will
inevitably deteriorate. For this reason, the project included signed agreements with the
Ministry of Education and with the institutions which sought to keep the rate of expansion
within manageable bounds. During the project period, however, university enrollments
expanded from 14,272 to 27,812 (an increase of 95 percent), surpassing the agreed
1997/98 ceiling of 22,800 for managed system expansion by 22 percent. Polytechnic
enrollments of 13,456 in 1997/98 remained under the agreed ceiling of 14,000. The
project clearly succeeded in expanding access, although at a rate somewhat faster than
was desirable.
10.   Management efficiency. The project aimed to increase the efficiency of resource
management by improving academic staff/student ratios, reducing the numbers of non-
academic staff, providing incentives for institutional income generation, and establishing
computerized management information systems. By project completion, academic
staff/student ratios had improved from 1: 11 to 1: 18 at universities, and from 1:24 to 1:30
at polytechnics.3 However, enrollment growth produced these gains rather than conscious
management intervention. For the same reason, the proportion of non-academic staff to
students declined from 49 percent to 28 percent for the university system overall. In
1998, Government agreed to allow the institutions to retain all income generated, instead
of deducting it from the following year's allocation as previously. The three main
universities have registered good progress in the very complex and long-term undertaking
of establishing computerized management information systems. By the end of 1998,
these universities had put in place core capabilities for managing an integrated system of
student records, personnel, and financial administration. Importantly, Government has
undertaken in 1999 to fund the tertiary sector on a block grant basis, thereby encouraging
management initiative and enabling the budget process for the first time to align funding
with policy objectives and institutional priorities. As a result, the tertiary system is slowly
but steadily increasing its management efficiency.
11.   Capacities for system monitoring and evaluation. Various institutional capacities
for policy monitoring and quality control of the tertiary system have been created. Three
of the four new institutions to be set up under the project are now in place and functioning
with various degrees of effectiveness. The first, the National Council for Tertiary
Education (NCTE), is staffed, housed, and deeply involved in tertiary financing issues.
The second, the National Accreditation Board (NAB), has visited all polytechnics twice
during the past three years, providing conditional certification to most programs and
identifying several for remedial attention. The third, the National Board for Professional
and Technician Examinations (NABPTEX), examined all polytechnic graduates for 1995,
3 The polytechnic ratio is judged too high for the effective transfer of hand skills to take place.



5
1996 and 1997, but has not yet awarded diplomas for these years. This has been due
largely to the Ministry's inability to find a suitable candidate for the Board's key
leadership position of Executive Secretary. The fourth, a proposed Joint Admissions and
Matriculation Board (JAMB), was expected to simplify the admissions process for
students while improving its cost-efficiency. However, JAMB legislation has been stalled
in Parliament since 1994 by university opposition. This lack of progress recently
prompted the NCTE to take steps to set up a joint admissions board under its auspices. In
addition to these new agencies, development units have been established within the
universities to coordinate institutional data collection and to support strategic planning.
Taken together, these various institutional capacities appear likely to become the project's
most important legacy.
12.   University College of Education at Winneba. In the quest for better quality and
reduced costs, Government united five small teacher training colleges on a common
campus in the town of Winneba. This fledgling enterprise has evolved well under
challenging conditions, and is beginning to play a role in upgrading teacher quality within
the country. Of note is its multi-disciplinary approach to curriculum development and its
growing capacity to offer in-service distance learning programs to teachers. With an
enrollment of 3,400 students, it can be considered a notable accomplishment under the
project.
13.   Based on the above, project performance in attaining its development objectives is
rated as "satisfactory," but barely so. The Borrower achieved much, particularly with
regard to institutional capacity development. But its financing reforms did not go far
enough to ensure the sustainability of the project's quality achievements.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.     MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   Principle risks identified at the outset of the project were accurately anticipated.
They were: (a) that the Ministry of Education might lose control of university
enrollments in the face of strong social demands for higher education; (b) that efficiency
gains would be delayed by staff and student resistance; (c) that end-1992 elections would
bring changes in government which might undermine commitments to the project's
objectives; and (d) that some combination of the above three factors could produce a
budget explosion in tertiary education. In retrospect, all but the last of these risks
manifested themselves directly.
15.   Various factors limited project achievements. None of these were related to the
design of the project or its implementation arrangements. Principal among them were:
16.   Political will. Government's two-pronged strategy of boosting educational
quality through managed enrollment growth and increased cost-recovery pre-dated the
project and was well understood by all parties. It was a key aspect of the 1988 report of



6
the Government's University Rationalization Committee, and was clearly summarized in
the Government's Letter of Higher Education Development Policy, dated September 12,
1992. The same strategy was enshrined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
associated memoranda of understanding between the Ministry of Education and the
tertiary institutions. It was also the focus of the project's Mid-Term Review in 1995 and
its subsequent Action Plan. Govemment's inability to honor its pledge to carry out this
strategy can only be explained as a widespread reluctance by key public figures, perhaps
wary of the more open and less predictable political environment that followed post-1992
re-democratization, to assume responsibility for these commitments.
17.   Leadership changes. Numerous changes of leadership weakened the ability of
participating institutions to meet their obligations in pursuit of project goals. During the
project, the Ministry of Education had three different ministers and deputy ministers for
higher education. Two of the main universities had three different vice-chancellors and
several of the polytechnics had two or more principals. The NCTE initially operated
without an Executive Secretary for two years, and then worked under an acting chairman
for two more years once the Executive Secretary was named. NABPTEX has never had a
permanent Executive Secretary in its four years of existence. This instability was
partially offset by the permanence of the Ministry's Project Manager and the Bank's Task
Manager, who both remained unchanged during project implementation. This was not
enough, however, to generate full adherence to the project's objectives.
18.  Inadequate project communications. Tertiary institutions the world over,
particularly universities, are accustomed to considerable autonomy in the management of
their affairs. In this context, they are likely to view each other as competitors rather than
potential partners, and they are not in the habit of allowing Ministry officials to take on
coordinating roles. Ghana is no exception to this general rule. Consequently, established
channels of communication among-middle level managers at the tertiary institutions and
the Ministry of Education (and particularly its new Project Management Unit - PMU) did
not exist to facilitate project implementation. Communication through the heads of
tertiary institutions proved problematic due to their frequent travel, the weakness of
delegation of authority arrangements, status differences between university leaders and
PMU staff, and limited telephone service on campuses. Although these shortcomings
might have been remedied by a strong initial investment of PMU and IDA staff time in
building personal relations with staff at each institution, the seriousness of communication
problems only became apparent at the Mid-Term Review. Subsequently, PMU staff tried
to improve their communications and to organize project implementation committees on
each campus. At that time, however, the need for the PMU to cede certain responsibilities
to the NCTE as the latter began to play its anticipated coordinating role introduced further
complexity into the communications issue. Thus, the lack of initial attention to building
strong channels of communication between the project and the tertiary institutions was
never corrected.
19.   Disarticulation with theAfrican Development Bank (AJDB). In what seemed to
be a reasonable division of labor, the IDA-supported project planned to build upon the
achievements of an earlier approved AfDB investment of US$15 million in the



7
construction and rehabilitation of teaching workshops at the polytechnics. Specifically,
IDA funding provided new workshop equipment and short-term technical specialists to
train polytechnic staff in the use of this new equipment and help them to update
curriculum. Unfortunately, major re-organization and staffing turnover at the AfDB
seriously delayed implementation approvals for its project during several years, thereby
disrupting the sequencing of the IDA project. Neither Bank nor PMI staff adjusted
adequately to these delays. As a result, the technical specialists arrived to find the new
equipment still boxed and uninstalled because the workshops were not ready to receive
them. Regrettably, some of the technical specialists concluded their six-month
assignments before their workshops could be equipped, and were unable to do more than
provide "theoretical" training in their areas of expertise.
20.   Matchingfunds. Timely provision of matching funds by Government was a
chronic problem throughout the project. Lobbying for these funds absorbed huge
amounts of the project manager's time and limited his ability to attend to other important
aspects of the project (e.g. communications). Delays in the release of matching funds also
slowed completion of project civil works by one year. At project end, Government was
US$630,000 short of meeting its commitment to provide US$5.4 million in matching
funds.
B.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   At this time, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain. Unless tertiary
enrollment growth is brought firmly under government management, the progress noted
above could well be temporary. The rise in university enrollments, the recent creation of
four new polytechnics, slow progress in cost-sharing, and the inability to restructure the
student loan program do not augur well for the sustainability of project gains in
educational quality. In the face of these facts, increased institutional capacities, efficiency
gains, greater public awareness of the key issues, and an improved but still inadequate
policy framework may not be sufficient to preserve the project's investment.
C.      BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   IDA's overall performance is judged to be satisfactory. It identified a high-priority
project in which the Government had previously invested considerable preparation effort.
A number of working groups, task forces, consultancies, and on-campus seminars shaped
the content of new structures, academic programs, legal frameworks, and quality control
mechanisms.4 The resulting project design was feasible and thorough. During
implementation, IDA staff regularly shared documentation with institutional and ministry
officials on higher education reform experiences elsewhere in the world. They also helped
to build stakeholder awareness of the gravity of the tertiary financing problems facing the
country through interviews, articles, and radio broadcast discussion. Should staff,
Esi Sutherland-Addy, Revival and Renewal: Reflections on the Creation of a System of Tertiary
Education in Ghana. AFTHR Technical Note No. 10. (Washington, DC: World Bank, 1993), p. 14.



8
however, have applied the legal remedies at their disposal when Government allowed
tertiary enrollments to surge in 1996/97 and failed to introduce off-setting cost-sharing
policies as agreed? Bank staff repeatedly raised these issues with Government and
reflected its stop-and-go responses in their supervision ratings of project performance. But
they judged that direct confrontation on this point would not have been productive for the
Bank's broader education sector strategy. Moreover, Bank management was less willing to
support a suspension of disbursements at that time than it is today.
D.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   The Borrower's performance is assessed as barely satisfactory in the policy area.
The gains in tertiary system integration, institutional capacities, block-grant funding,
institutional autonomy, and various areas of management efficiency are judged to
marginally outweigh the failure to maintain previous levels of budget support for the
tertiary sector, to introduce full-cost hostel fees, and to re-structure the student loan
scheme. However, the Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory in the
implementation of project activities. The Borrower completed virtually all activities as
planned, and the credit has been 100 percent disbursed. For the most part, the Borrower
responded to implementation problems with determination and creativity.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
24.    The Ghana Tertiary Education Project has produced mixed results. It is rated
satisfactory in the areas of institutional development, educational quality, establishment of
the University College of Education, certain management efficiency gains, introduction of
the block grant concept, establishment of computerized management information systems,
and incipient capacities for institutional strategic planning. It is rated unsatisfactory in its
efforts to introduce full-cost hostel fees, to re-structure the student loan scheme, to
manage the expansion of tertiary enrollments, and to maintain Government's financial
commitment to the sub-sector. These latter limitations place the sustainability of the
former accomplishments at risk.
25.   On balance, although many of the project's development objectives were
achieved, the absence of any assurance concerning controls on tertiary enrollment growth
and associated medium term plans for the system's financial sustainability leave the
outcome of the tertiary reform process, and the project itself, uncertain.



9
B.     FUTURE OPERATIONS
26.    As the project entered its final year in 1998, the Borrower proposed a second
tertiary education project to IDA in order to consolidate the tertiary reforms now under
way. In light of the project experience summarized above, Bank staff judge that the
following foundation of policy actions would need to be in place prior to the
commencement of any second phase assistance:
=>  Action Plan for financial sustainability of the education sector.
=>  Updated policy framework for tertiary education.
z>   Agreements on per student expenditure levels needed to improve educational
quality and the consequences of non-compliance.
=>  Budgets which reinforce policy goals and institutional strategic plans.
>   Quarterly block grants for the tertiary sector which include items 1-8.
z>  Sustainable and targeted student loan scheme.
>  Participatory mechanism for project design and implementation.
= ? Government payment of pending invoices for contracts approved under the
current project.
If these issues are satisfactorily addressed, a second tertiary education investment could
usefully concentrate on the following capacity needs: strategic planning at tertiary
institutions, strengthening and streamlining the polytechnic sub-sector, selected graduate
training programs, tertiary distance learning, electronic networking for scientific and
administrative purposes, and quality assurance.
C.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
27.   Project experience was assessed separately by Government and IDA at both the
Mid-Term Review and at credit closing. The latter includes an MOE-commissioned
Report on Evaluation of National Tertiary Policy Objectives. In addition, IDA and MOE
jointly organized stakeholder workshops in September 1998 and in February 1999 to take
stock of the project experience.
28.   Specific lessons drawn from the six-year experience of this project offer
instructive guidance to future higher education projects, particularly in Africa:



10
29.   Lessons Learned: Development Objectives:
*  Tertiary education projects are unusual in that some of their beneficiary
institutions--the universities--are generally stronger, better endowed, and more
capable than other public institutions. In addition, they possess an organized and
influential constituency of staff, students, and alumni who can act as powerful
interest groups. For these reasons, broad consultation and institutional
participation is essential not only in project design, but also continuously
throughout the implementation of the project. This implies that supervision of
tertiary projects will require more effort and resources than is the norm for Bank
projects.
*  Managed expansion of tertiary enrollments is critical for maintaining educational
quality, yet political demands make it very difficult for governments to exercise
this control--even when bound to do so by the Credit Agreement. For this reason,
Bank staff should make these key project variables a permanent part of their
dialogue with Government and be prepared to take strong measures at the first
indication that enrollment growth is exceeding government's capacity to finance
this expansion. Total recurrent expenditure per student is recommended as the
main performance indicator for monitoring the balance between expansion and
quality.
3  Where improvement in the quality of tertiary education is an explicit project
objective, relevant performance indicators which measure student learning (e.g.,
standard examination results) should be identified or created in order to effectively
monitor project impact.
* It has proven very difficult for the finance/budgetary/audit arm of government to
accept education sector and institutional priorities in the allocation of public
resources. Both project and Bank staff are therefore advised to foster good
communication and close working relationships with the Ministry of Finance and
its sister agencies (e.g., Auditor General).
*  Bank staff recognize the potential of tertiary students to stalemate processes of
tertiary reform, particularly with regard to financial issues such as cost-sharing,
student privileges, student loans, and scholarships. However, the transitory status
of students and frequent turnover in student leadership make effective consensus-
building with students difficult to attain. Consequently, any agreements reached
are likely to be temporary. For this reason, it is recommended that mechanisms
for continuous communication and consultation with student representatives be
explicitly incorporated into project design. In light of student interests, however,
both the Borrower and the Bank should recognize that such consultations may
sometimes fail to foster agreements.



11
30.   Lessons Learned: Project Design and Implementation:
* Parallel Donor Funding. When Bank-supported projects are expected to include
parallel financing by another donor, care should be taken to ensure that each
donor-financed component can be implemented independent of the other. The
difficulties of coordinating procurement, no-objections, and disbursements by two
separate funding institutions are nearly insurmountable. Under this project, for
example, Bank inputs of workshop equipment and technical assistance to the
polytechnics were partially negated by lengthy delays in the rehabilitation of
polytechnic workshops under the African Development Bank project.
* Management Information Systems. This was a "pioneering" experience in
Ghana, and numerous lessons were learned: (i) establish essential infrastructure
(phone lines; networked computers) before launching the introduction of MIS; (ii)
use the above process to identify and foster local "champions"; (iii) familiarize
middle managers with computer technology early in the project; (iv) obtain
institutional commitments to cover system maintenance costs; and (v) only after
the above has been done should the big choices regarding system design be
undertaken. This means that the selection of technical assistance for project
management should be carried out earlier and separately from the choice of
software (which should involve university participation). Software specifications
should be detailed enough to hold the supplier accountable and be based on "good
practice" examples. Software choice should emphasize "no frills" products which
enable core MIS capacities to be put in place because the inclusion of software
"bells and whistles" often generates a need for expensive and time-consuming
custom (bespoke) work. Additionally, staffing changes in MIS management
positions are very costly in terms of time lost as well as funds expended.
* Research Fund. Here the Government and the Bank also acquired useful
experience which can guide similar efforts in the future: (i) research funds should
be managed by an institution with a mandate for and commitment to research, not
by the project implementation unit or parent ministry; (ii) research proposals
should be invited from university departments rather than from individuals to
enhance capacity building benefits and to enable greater accountability through
involvement of university finance officers; and (iii) technical evaluators of
research proposals should be paid enough to ensure timely responses.
* Management capacity-building. Short term and in-service training in
professional management techniques for staff at all levels of management should
be a continuous activity throughout the life of any higher education project.
* Project Accounting. Here the lessons are three: (i) maintain project accounts in
SDRs from inception in order to avoid exchange rates surprises in the final year;
(ii) divide accounting tasks among two or more accountants to ensure internal
controls and staffing continuity through illness or departures; and (iii) do not
economize on project management funding by skimping on accounting capacity.



12
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:   Credit Amount (by expenditure category)
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11A:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11 B:  Bank Resources: Supervision Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     o                               0                 El
Sector Policies                                   E ol               l               n
Financial Objectives               5               5                 3]
Institutional Development          0              E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                                5                5
Poverty Reduction                  E              El               E                 0
Gender Issues                      i               0               E                 E
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                                             0
Public Sector Management            ]                              El                El
Private Sector Development         E              E                E                 0
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                 Unlikeb                  Uncertain
El                      [1                        El
C. Bank Performance                  Hig_y
Satisfactory        Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                                                      El
Preparation Assistance            E                        0
Appraisal                          0                       5
Supervision                          ]                                              El
D. Borrower Performance              Hhly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparatwon                        0                      E                         E
Implementation                    E                        0                        0
Covenant compliance
E. Assessment of Outcome             Hihly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
El                      0                        El



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title                     Objectives                     Year of    Status
approval
Preceding Operations
Cr. 1744-GH      Education Sector Adjustment. To support education    1987    Completed
system reform.
Cr. 2140-GH      Education Sector Adjustment II.  To consolidate   1991    Completed
education system reform and extend it to the senior
secondary level.
Cr. 2278-GH      CommunitySecondarySchool Construction. To          1992    Completed
support rural communities in constructing 140 new SS
schools.
Cr. 2349-GH      Literacy and Functional Skills. To support         1990    Completed
Government' mass literacy program.
Cr. 2508-GH      Primary School Development.. To increase learning    1993    Completed
achievements and enrollments.
FoUlowing Operations
Cr. 2695-GH       Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support. To    1995   Ongoing
improve informal sector productivity and reorient
vocational training to a demand-driven system.
Cr. 2885-GH      Basic Education Sector Investment Program.  To    1996       Ongoing
improve the teaching and learning outcomes; access to
primary and junior-secondary education (especially for
girls and the poor); efficiency in resource management
and financial sustainability.
i



15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date planned             Actual Date/
latest estimate
Identification                            Not Available            July 15, 1991
Preparation                               Not Available         November 18, 1991
Appraisal                                 Not Available           March 16, 1992
Negotiations                              Not Available           August 17, 1992
Letter of Development Policy (if app.)    Not Available         September 16, 1992
Board Presentation                        Not Available          October 27, 1992
Signature                                 Not Available          November 9, 1992
Effectiveness                             January 8, 1993         January 8, 1993
Project completion                      December 31, 1997       September 30, 1998
Credit closing                          December 31, 1997       September 30, 1998



16
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND AcTuAL AMOUNTS
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal estimate       Actual amount       Actual amount as
% of estimate
1993                      7.8                     3.2                  41%
1994                     15.0                     3.8                  25%
1995                    25.0                     12.0                  48%
1996                     35.0                    24.2                  69%
1997                    42.0                     39.6                  94%
1998                    45.0                     43.8                  97%
1999                      n.a.                   44.8                  100%
n.a.: not applicable
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimate and Loan database (March 10, 1999) for the actual
amnounts.
Date of final disbursement: February 26, 1999.
Note: Credit original closing date was December 31, 1997, and therefore disbursements should
have continued until April 30, 1998. The total credit amount is based on the exchange rate
US$/SDR when credit was approved. At the time of the closing, 100% of the SDR amount
was disbursed.
Note: The total amount disbursed in this table differs from the one given in tables 7A and
7B because the source of the information is World Bank Loan database for Table 4 and
Project's accounts for Tables 7, and therefore different exchanges rates at different times
have been used.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Government:
1992     1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     Ceiling
Tertiary/Total MOE
RecurrentBudget    %          15        11       12       11         12        12       12       18.3
Tertiary/MOE
PIP Budget         %          39        32        32      16         23       38        24       40.0
UDS Investment     a         $0.1m     $0.3m     $0.3m    $0.3m     $0.4m    $0.2m     $0.4m   $1.3rm/yr.
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97  1997/98
Cost Recovery:
Application Fees   a         Univs.        0        0      5000     5000       N.A.    5000       5000!
Guide      1500     2000      4000                                  20,000
Others       ?        ?       1000     5000       N.A.   90,000/  150,000/
Guide       --      1000      1000     2000                100,000  170,000
Hostel Fees/Costs    %       actual       0        0         0        0        N.A.        0        25
target       -        -        100      100      100        100       100
Registration +
Application Fees/    %       actual       ?        ?         ?         2      N.A.         3        4
Academic Costs               target       -        --       --        5        S          5         5
Student Loans (max)  a       Resident  80,000    163,000   200,000   350,000    N.A.    600,000  800,000
target    80,000    90,000    90,000
Non-
Resident  80,000    150,000   200,000   350,000    N.A.    600,000  800,000
Key:     Italics = target figures                                   * Based on FTE calculations in which all HND
Non-Italics = actual figures                                students equal 1.0 FTE and all non-tertiary
students represent 0.5 FTE.
NA -     The 1995/96 university year was lost due to
an extended strike by academic staff, but the
polytechnics continued to function.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(continued)
Tertiary Institutions:
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97  1997/98
In-takes           No.       UG                    2048     2458      2087      3583      N.A.      2682       2578
UST                  1909       881      1645      1967     N.A.       2088      2177
UCC                   803       800      1143      1673      N.A.      1972      2511
Total Univs.         4760      4139      4875      7223      N.A.      6742      7266
Guideline            4475      4500     4500       5500     5500       5500      5500
Enrollments        No.       UG                     4698      5447     5594      6951     N.A.       8495      8606
UST                   4754      4374     4451      4890      N.A.      6079      6876
UCC                   2404      2562     3190      4273     N.A.       5342      7264
Total Univs.        11,856    12,383   13,235    16,114     N.A.    19,916    24,387
Guideline           13,124    14,500   15,500    17,250    18,500    19,500    20,000
UCEW                  --        1889     1820      1748      N.A.      2955      3425
Guideline            2400       2500     2800      2800      2800      2800      2800
TotalPolys*         10,953    10,604    11,407    11,682    12,619    13,141    13,456
Guideline           10,000    10,500   11,000    11,500    12,000    13,000    14,000
Female Students/
Total Enrollments    %       UG                    24         24         25      25       NA          31       26
UST                   18        18         18       20       NA         21       20
UCC                   23        25         24       25       NA         27       26
UCEW                  -         24         26       29      NA          29       27
Total Polys           30        29         29       23       NA         21       24
Students/
Academic Staff No.           UG                      7         9         10       12      NA          16       15
(Average)                    UST                   11          9        10       10       NA         13       15
UCC                   16        13         16       21       NA         28       32
UCEW                  --        19         18       13       NA         16       28
Guideline             --        --         15       15       15         15       15
Total Polys*          25        24         27       24        30        27       30
Guideline            18         18        18        18        18        18       18
Non-Academic
Staff/Students     %         UG                     59        53        46        39       NA         31       35
UST                   44        53        50        46        NA        27       31
UCC                   45        50        39        26        NA        24       17
Guideline              -         --       --        --        30        30       30
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Library Acquisi-
tions/Total        %         UG                    3.0        3.7      3.4       2.0       2.9       2.6      n.a.
Recurrent                    UST                   2.3        2.4      2.4       1.5       2.4       3.1      n.a.
UCC                  0.3        5.5      4.9       2.9       2.7       2.3      n.a.
Guideline             --        --        --       5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0
Maintenance/
Total Recurrent    %         UG                     3.0       3.0      3.0       4.0       3.5      10.3      n.a.
UST                   8.5       7.4      7.6       6.7       6.0       5.1       n.a.
UCC                   0.0       0.0      0.0       4.1       2.3       2.0      n.a.
Guideline             --        --        --       5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Year               Study                    appraisal/redefined          Status              Impact of study
1995     Developing Feasible Strategies To identify ways that the project and  completed    Limited. The idea of special bridging
to Increase Female         the MOE might increase female                 courses for girls was incorporated into
Participation in Tertiary  participation in higher education.            several polytechnics. Impact was
Education                                                                 limited in part by the inability of NCTE
to edit and publish the study.
1995     Private Tertiary Education in   To assess the potential for private    completed    Significant. Six private institutions have
Ghana                      provision of tertiary education.               now been authorized by the National
Accreditation Board to offer degree
programs.
1995     Income Generation in Tertiary  To assess recent experience and the   completed    Negligible. The study was poorly done.
Education                  future potential for budget supple-
menting income generation activities.
1995     Manpower Survey of Tertiary  To assess the labor market demand    completed    Negligible. The study was poorly done.
Graduates                  by academic field for university
graduates.
1995     Socio-Economic Background   To ascertain the resources available   completed    Negligible. The study was poorly done.
of Students in Tertiary    to tertiary students as the basis for
Institutions.              making decisions concerning student
fees and student loans.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
(Continued)
Purpose as defined at
Year               Study                    appraisal/redefined         Status               Impact of study
1995     Review of Tertiary Education   To provide an independent    completed    Lirnited. The study was superficial.
Project Performance        assessment of the project
performance for the Mid-Term
Review.
1995     Financing of Tertiary      To ascertain prevailing patterns of    completed    Substantial. Prompted a series of
Institutions               tertiary education financing.                 constructive discussions and policy
debate regarding government funding
processes and shares.
1996     Staff and Curriculum       To identify ways in which the    completed    Limited. Funds for implementation of
Development                pedagogical skills of academic staff          these recommendations were not
might be strengthened.                        available.
1998     Current and Future Demands   To obtain empirical evidence to guide Not
for Tertiary Level Manpower   decisions regarding tertiary  completed
enrollment growth, the relative
importance of polytechnics, and
curriculum emphasis.
1998    Information and             To develop a technically sound long   Not
Communications Technology  term plan for an electronic      completed
Plan for Tertiary Education    information and communication
Institutions               network linking all tertiary
institutions.



21
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
Category                       Appraisal estimate                  Actual costs
Local    Foreign                 Local     Foreign
Costs    Currency    Total       Costs    Currency      Total
1. Civilworks                          8.7        5.7       14.4        12.1       5.7        17.8
2. Equipment, Computers, Vehicles      0.0       15.4        15.4       0.0        14.4        14.4
3. Books and Joumals                   0.0        3.7        3.7        0.0         5.5        5.5
4. Training                            1.1        1.0        2.1        0.7         0.6        1.3
5. Consultancy Services                2.3        2.5        4.8        3.5        4.0         7.5
6. Research Fund                       0.5        0.5        1.0        0.2         0.2        0.4
7. Studies                             0.5        0.1        0.6        0.3         0.1        0.4
8. Incremental Recurrent Cost          0.3        0.3        0.6        1.1         1.2        2.3
9. Duties and taxes                    1.4        0.0        1.4        1.4         0.0        1.4
10. Unallocated                         2.3        5.1        7.4        0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL                     17.1       34.3       51.4       19.3       31.7        51.0
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs.
n.a.: data not available.
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual Costs
Source              Local      Foreign                   Local      Foreign
Costs    Currency       Total       Costs    Currency        Total
IDA                            12.0       33.0        45.0        13.0        31.8         44.8
Government &                    5.1        1.3         6.4         4.8          1.4         6.2
Beneficiaries
TOTAL                         17.1        34.3        51.4        17.8        33.2        51.0
Source:: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs



I
22
TABLE 8: ECONoMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation
purposes.



23
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original   Revised
Covenant    Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type        Date       Date      Status                        Description of Covenant                                  Comments
2.02 (b)   01                                C         The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit  Done.
account in a commercial bank.
2.03      09                                 C         The closing date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as the  Project completed on September 30,
Association shall establish.                                      1998 with a nine month delay.
3.01 (a)   05                                CP        The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence and   Net shortfall in the provision of
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,   counterpart funds at the end of
educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as   projects.
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
3.01 (b)   10                                CD        The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the   Implementation program satisfactorily
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 of the Credit      completed.
Agreement.
3.01 (b)   01                                C         The Borrower shall: (a) Open and maintain in a commercial bank a  Government ordered the project
Tertiary Education Project Account on ternls and conditions satisfactory   account transferred from the
to the Association, to be used exclusively for the purpose of meeting  commercial bank to the Bank of
expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the  Ghana in August 1993; one result is
proceeds of the Credit;                                          that the account no longer earns
interest.
3.01 (b)   04                                CP        (b) In addition to the initial deposit referred to in Sec.6.0 1(b) of the Cred.  The project concluded with a net
Agreement, deposit into said account, promptly before each fiscal quarter  shortfall in government's counterpart
starting after the effectiveness date, sufficient funds to pay the  contribution obligations of $630,000.
Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project required for such
fiscal quarter, as estimated by the Borrower in consultation with the
Association.



24
Original   Revised
Covenant    Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type        Date       Date      Status                       Description of Covenant                                   Comments
3.04 (a)   12                                NC        The Borrower shall: (i) contain intakes and enrollments within the  The PMU updated data on these
ceilings set forth in the Policy letter;                         indicators in September 1998.
Current enrollments are over the
agreed project ceilings for
universities, including the University
College of Education at Winneba, by
22%. However, enrollments for the
polytechnics are in compliance with
the agreed project ceilings.
3.04 (a)   12                                C         (ii) adjust student/academic staff ratios to the levels provided for in the    Rising enrollments have enabled
Policy Letter;                                                   compliance.
3.04 (a)   12                                CP        (iii) implement the cost-recovery mechanisms described in the Policy  Student hostel fees equivalent of 25%
Letter; and                                                       of the estimated full cost of*
maintaining student residences were
introduced in August 1998.
3.04 (a)   11                                C         (iv) limit the percentage of the Borrower's recurrent budget for education  Education allocation for 1998 is
allocated to and subsequently expended on tertiary education to the level  reportedly 34 % of the Government's
set forth in the Policy Letter.                                   budget. However, tertiary education's
share of this is only 12% which is well
below the agreed ceiling.
3.04 (b)   12                                NC        The Borrower shall cause the Universities, Polytechnics and University    At project closing, University
College to: (i) contain intakes and enrollments within the ceilings set  enrollments and UCEW enrollments
forth in the Policy Letter;                                      were each 22% above the agreed
enrollment ceilings. Polytechnic
enrollmcnts were in compliance.
3.04 (b)   12                                C         (ii) adjust student/academic staff ratios to the levels provided for in the    Rising enrollnents have enabled
Policy Leter;                                                    compliance.



25
Original   Revised
Covenant    Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type        Date       Date      Status                       Description of Covenant                                  Comments
3.04 (b)   02                                CP        (iii) implement the cost-recovery mechanisms described in the Policy  Student hostel fees equivalent to 25%
Letter.                                                          of estimated full cost of maintenance
were introduced in August 1998.
Various user fees introduced in the
last two years now represent roughly
5% of recurrent costs.
3.05      11                                 C         The Borrower shall: (a) adopt a public expenditure program for Tertiary   Done.
Education for FYs 93/94/95 and 96 acceptable to the Association and
shall ensure that actual expenditures under such program do not deviate
by more than 10% from amounts budgeted thereunder (except for higher
actual expenditures resulting from salary increases not budgeted for in
such program);
3.05      03                                 C         (b) review with the Association, not later than Sept. 30 of each year, the   Done annually, including during ICR
budgetary allocations required for the succeeding FY to implement the    mission.
project;
3.06      02                                 NC        The Borrower shall implement and shall cause the Social Security and  The student loan program is running a
National Insurance Trust to implement, in a timely manner, the action  large deficit and is unsustainable. No
plan for modifying the Tertiary Education student loan scheme agreed  action has been taken, although a
upon with the Association.                                       government committee is reportedly
studying the problem.
3.07 (a)   09                     11/18/95   C         The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not earlier  Done.
than Sept. 30, 1994 and no later than March 31, 1995, a Mid-Term
Review of the progress described in the Policy Letter. This review shall
cover, among other things: (i) enrollment levels,(ii) budgetary allocations
and expenditures,(iii) cost recovery mechanisms; (iv) the operation of the
student loan scheme, (v) student-to-academic staff ratios, (vi) non-
academic staff numbers,(vii) time/space/facility utilization ratios, (viii)
maintenance and library acquisition budgets, and (ix) the effectiveness of
the technical assistance provided under the Project in transferring skills.



26
Original   Revised
Covenant    FulfilL     Fulfill.
Section     Type        Date       Date      Status                       Description of Covenant                                  Comments
3.07 (b)   05                                CD        Based on such review, the Borrower shall, where necessary to ensure the   Action Plan for Project done; Policy
effective implementation of the Project and the program set forth in the    Action Plan agreed in June 1996 and
Policy letter, promptly prepare an Action Plan, acceptable to the  largely implemented by February
Association, for the further implementation thereof and shall thereafter    1997. By end of project, all 15 items
implement such Action Plan.                                      of the Policy Action Plan had been
implemented in full or in part.
4.01 (a)   01                                C         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and  Reviewed during each supervision
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting  visit, including ICR mission.
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)   01                                C         The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in  Audit for 1997 submitted before June
pan. (a) of this Section, including those for the Special Account for each  30,1998.
fiscal year, audited in accordance with appropriate audition principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
4.01 (b)   01                                C         (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no  Audit for 1997 submitted before June
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of   30, 1998.
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request;
4.01 (b)   01                                C         (iii) furnish the Association such other information concerning said  Done.
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c)   01                                C         (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examnine such records;  Examined in September 1998.
4.01 (c)   01          6/30/94    6/28/98    C         (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual  Acceptable audit submitted on time.
audit referred to in para. (b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such FY, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



27
Original   Revised
Covenant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                       Description of Covenant                                Comments
3 (b)     03          3/22/94              C         Under Category (6) until the Borrower shall have established terms and   These disbursement conditions were
conditions acceptable to the Association for the operation of the  met on March 22, 1994.
Research Fund, including criteria for the selection of research proposals
and arrangements for its management;
3 (c)     03          12/22/93             C         Under Category (8) until: (i) the University College shall have been  These disbursement conditions were
established by an instrument acceptable to the Association; (ii) the  met on December 22, 1993.
Principal of the University College shall have been appointed; and
3 (c)     03          12/22/93             C         (iii) a memorandum of understanding between the University College  These disbursement conditions were
and the Borrower shall have been executed, setting forth their respective   met on December 22, 1993.
rights and obligations with respect to the Project and the program set
forth in the Policy Letter.
1         05                               C        Increasing the institutional capacity of MOE to manage tertiary  Done.
education, in particular in connection with the Borrower's
implementation of the Tertiary Education reform program, including: (a)
training staff;
1         05                               C        (b) establishment of a management information system;           First phase completed; used for on-
I     I        I                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~line student registration this year.
1         05          7/19/95              C        (c) preparation of labor market demand and other studies.       See Schedule 4 (4) below. Studies
I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~completed in July 1995.
2         05          3/22/94    6/15/95    C        Establishment and operation of the following tertiary education boards:   Done.
(a) a board of accreditation;
2         05                                CP       (b) a joint admissions and matriculations board;               The National Council for Tertiary
Education recently decided to
establish a joint admissions and
matriculation board under its auspices,
thus saving some administrative costs
and avoiding the long-standing
political imnpasse on this matter in the
Parliament.



28
Original   Revised
Covenant    FulfilL     FulfilLD
Section     Type        Date       Date      Status                       Description of Covenant                                  Comments
2         05                      08/29/95   C         (c) a board for technical and professional examinations.          Done.
1         10                                 C        Rehabilitation and expansion of the buildings at the Universities and  Done.
Polytechnics, including: (a) at the Universities: construction and
rehabilitation of libraries, lecture theaters, laboratories, workshops,
campus facilities for non-resident students, and sanitary facilities;
I         10                                 C         (b) at the Polytechnics: construction and rehabilitation of laboratories,  Done.
workshops, classrooms, campus facilities for non-resident students, and
sanitary facilities.
2          10                                C         Improving the laboratory and workshop facilities at the Universities and   Done
Polytechnics through the acquisition and maintenance of equipment;
3          10                                C         Increasing student access at the Universities and Polytechnics: (a) to  All deliveries completed.
reference and resource material through the acquisition of textbooks and
other reference books, and through subscriptions to journals;
3          10                                C         (b) to computers;                                                 All deliveries completed.
4          10                                C         Improving the institutional capacities of the Universities and    Done.
Polytechnics to provide educational services through, inter alia: (a)
training of staff, including the provision of fellowships;
4          10                                C         (b) the computerization of administrative, planning and library services;   Done
4          10                                C         (c) the acquisition of vehicles for administrative purposes and student  All deliveries completed.
field trips;
4          10                                C         (d) the acquisition of teaching aids;                             Done.
4          10                                CP        (e) the development and operation of a centralized system for time-  All MIS software, hardware, and
tabling and space allocation, and of a management information system at  training have been provided as agreed
each institution;                                                under the project. However, some
institutions are making better use of it
than others.



29
Original   Revised
Covenant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                       Description of Covenant                                Comments
4         10                               CP        (f) the establishment of student career advisory services;     TA completed; service is operational
at two institutions.
5         10          3/22/94              C         Establishment and operation of a fund to support research by the  Disbursement conditions for this Fund
Universities (The Research Fund);                              were met on March 22, 1994.
6         10                     6/15/96    C        Strengthening the education services of the University College of  Done.
Winneba through: (a) completion of the science block building, library
refurbishing and construction, and rehabilitation of sanitary facilities;
6         10                               C         (b) improvement of laboratory and workshop facilities (including the  Done.
acquisition and maintenance of equipment);
6         10                               C         (c) increase of student access: (i) to reference and resource materials  Done.
(including the acquisition of textbooks and other reference books and
subscriptions to joumals);
6         10                                C        (cXii) to computers;                                           Done.
6         10                                C        (d) training of staff, including the provision of fellowships;  Done.
6         10                                CP       (e) the computerization of administrative planning and library services;   All MIS software, hardware, and
training provided as agreed under the
project; however, not all institutions
are making effective use of these new
capacities.
6         10                                C        (f) the acquisition of vehicles for administrative purposes and student  Done.
field trips.
6         10                                C        (g) the acquisition of teaching aids;                          Done.
q   6         10                                CP       (h) the development and operation of a centralized system for time-  All MIS software, hardware, and
tabling and space allocation, and of a management information system;   training provided as agreed under the
project; however, not all institutions
are making effective use of these new
capacities.



30
Original   Revised
Covenant    FuUDL    Fuliln
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                       Description of Covenant                                Comments
6         10                               CP        (i) the establishment of a student career advisory service.    TA completed; however, this service
is operational at only two institutions.
1         05          06/10/94             C        The Borrower shall continue to operate the CU under terms of reference,  Done.
and with staff with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the
Association.
2         10                               C         MOE shall employ procurement agents for equipment, and architectural   Done.
and engineering consultants, each with qualifications and experience and
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
3         10                               CP       In carrying out Part A.l of the Project, MOE shall establish and operate a  All software, hardware, and training
management information system for tertiary education.          provided as agreed under the project;
however, not all institutions are
making effective use of these new
capacities.
4         05          7/15/95              C         In carrying out Part A of the Project, MOE shall prepare and complete by  Done.
December 31, 1994 the following studies, under terms of reference
agreed upon with the Association: (a) a manpower survey study;
4         05          07/15/95              C        (b) an analysis of the socio-economic composition of the student body in  Done.
tertiary education;
4         05          07/15/95              C        (c) an evaluation of possibilities for private provision of tertiary  Done well.
education;
4         05          07/15/95              C        (d) a study of prospects for income generation by tertiary education  Done.
institutions;
4         05          07/15/95              C        (e) study of the scope of female participation in terdary education;  Done well.
5         05                                C        The Borrower shall cause the Universities, Polytechnics and the  Done.
University College to carry out Part B of the Project: (a) under the
coordination set forth in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;



31
Original   Revised
Covenant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                       Description of Covenant                                Comments
6         10                                C        In carrying out Part B of the Project, MOE shall establish, to the  Done.
satisfaction of the Association: (a) a work program identifying the civil
works to be carried out under Parts B. 1 and B.6 (a);
6         10                                C        (b) a list identifying the laboratories and workshops to be equipped under  Done.
Parts B.2 and B.6 (b);
6         10                               C         (c) guidelines for selecting the textbooks and reference books to be  Done.
acquired under Parts B.3 and B.6 (c);
6         10                               C         (d) guidelines for identifying the computers to be acquired under Parts    Done.
B.3 and B.6 (c);
7         10                                CD       In carrying out Parts B.4 and B.6 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall    Done.
cause the Universities, Polytechnics and University College to prepare,
by January 31, annual programs for staff training for the following
academic year satisfactory to the Association.
8         10          03/22/94              C        In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, except as the   Done.
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, operate the
Research Fund under the terms and conditions established in accordance
with para. 3(b) of Schedule I to this Agreement.



32
Key:
Covenant Type:
1. = Accounts/audits                         8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial Performance/ revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review and reporting
from beneficiaries                     10. = Project implementation
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds  11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
4. = Counterpart funding                          other resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
executing agency                             regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C   =   Complied with
CD  =   Complied with Delays
CP  =   Complied with partially
NYD =   Not yet due
NC  =         Not complied with
SOON =  Compliance expected in reasonably
short time.



33
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
-t  .t .   . .e.                                                , .
Preparation to appraisal     n.a.          n.a.        33.0        97.9
Appraisal                    n.a.          n.a.        13.1        39.1
Negotiations to Board        n.a.          n.a.        17.4        50.0
Presentation
Supervision                  62.5         212.3       103.9       329.2
Completion                   11.3          40.8         7.1        37.3
TOTAL                        73.8         253.1       174.5       553.5
n.a.: not available
Source: World Bank Cost Accounting System (FACT) January 20, 1999.



34
TABLE l1A: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Evaluation
Month/   Number of   Number of    Specialized staff   implementation   Development   Types of
Stage of Project cycle  Year       persons       Days       skills represented    Status        Objectives    problems
Identification through  7/15/91       3           165       PP, PE
to Preparation        11/18/91        2                     PP, PE
Appraisal             3/16/92         4            65       PP, PE, A, SES
Negotiations to       S/17/92 to      2            85       PP, PE
Effectiveness         1/8/93
Total                                             315
Supervision          121/93 to       30           112          E       A,F P        1.9            2.2          AOF,
2/98                                 SES, SPO, FAS,                                       CLC,
LE, HEP
Completion            9/98            2            5        SES; HEP                1.9            2.2          AOF,
CLC,
PDO
Specializations: PP: Principal Planner, ES: Education Specialist; A: Architect; PS: Procurement Specialist; SPO:Sr.
Project Officer; FA: Financial Analyst, LE: Labor Economist; SOO: Senior Operations Officer; PO: Projects Officer;
SES: Senior Education Specialist(TTL); HEP: Higher Education Policy; MIS: Management Information Specialist; PE:
Principal Economist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO:
Project Development Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress;
TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.a. = data not
available



35
TABLE 11B: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
State of Project  MonJ   Number   Days    Specialized                            Performance Rating by Type
Cycle      year       of       in     Staff Sklls
persons   Field   Represented   OS    PDO    CLC    PMP    AOF    PP   TP    TAP    SP   DL %
Supervision I   11/93     2        16    PP, ES        2      2       2       2       n.a     2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a  93%
Supervision 2    5/94     2        12    A; ES         2      2       2       2       n.a.    2    n.a   n.a.    n.a  91%
Supervision 3   10/94     2         5    PS; SES       2      2       2       2       1       2    n.a.   n.a     n.a  84%.
Supervision 4    7/95     3         8     SPO; PS;     2      2       2       2       1       2    n.a.   n.a     n.a  74%
SES
Supervision 5   11/95      5       15    SPO; SES,    2       2       2       2       3       2    n.m    n.a.    n.a  67%.
A(3)
Supervision 6    6/96     3        13    SPO; SES      2      3       2       2       3       1    n.a.   n.a     n.a  53%
Supervision 7    2/97     4        15    SES, SPO,    2       2       2       2       2       1    n.m   n..    n.a   20%/
PS, MIS
Supervision S    5/97     3         5     SOO, PO,     2      2       2       2       3       1    2       2      2    14%
FA
Supervision 9    2/98     4        13    LE; SOO;      2      3       2       2       2       1    2      2       2    3%
PO, SES
Supervision 10   9/98      2       10    SES; HEP      2      2       2       2       3       2    2      2       2    1%
TOTAL                     30       112                 2.0   2.2    2.0    2.0        23      1.6  2.0   2.0       2    0%
Specializations: PP: Principal Planner, ES: Education Specialist; A: Architect; PS: Procurement Specialist; SPO:Sr. Project Officer; FA: Financial
Analyst, LE: Labor Economist; SOO: Senior Operations Officer; PO: Projects Officer; SES: Senior Education Specialist(TTL); HEP: Higher
Education Policy; MIS: Management Information Specialist; PE: Principal Economist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development Objectives;
PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progrss.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.a. = data not available
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files@AFRICA\GHANA\HR\EDUC\TERFIN17.DOC
03/18/99 10:22 AM



AIDE MEMOIRE
Tertiary Education Project
(CR. 2428-GH)
World Bank Project Completion Mission
September 12-22, 1998
A completion mission for the Ghana Tertiary Education Project (Cr. 2428-GH) was conducted
on September 12-22, 1998 by William Saint (Sr. Education Specialist), and Alison Girdwood
(consultant, Commonwealth Secretariat), with assistance from Jan Leno (Sr. Education Specialist)
and Tsri Apronti (Projects Officer). The purposes of the completion mission were: (a) to review
overall performance in meeting the project's development objectives for the tertiary sector; (b) to
assess project impact, successes, and shortcomings in a two-day workshop for higher education
stakeholders; (c) to advise and support the Ministry of Education in the preparation of its contribution
to the project's Implementation Completion Report; (d) to agree with the Projects Management Unit
on outstanding payments under the project; and (e) to discuss studies and activities which could help
lay the foundation for eventual Bank assistance to the Government of Ghana for development of the
country's tertiary education system.
Bank staff met with the Honorable Minister for Education, Dr. Christina Amoako-Nuama;
Dr. M. lbn Chambas, Deputy Minister of Education responsible for higher education; Mr. F. A. Ben-
Eghan, Chief Director of the MOE; Prof. C. Ameyaw-Akumfi, Policy Adviser to the Minister; Prof.
George Benneh, Chairman, Prof. Adrian de Heer-Amissah, Executive Secretary, and members of the
National Council for Tertiary Education; Ms. Araba Korsah, Director General of the Ministry's
Projects Management Unit; and Mr. Victor Nortey, PMU Manager for the Tertiary Education Project.
Ver)' informative discussions were held with numerous representatives of the universities,
polytechnics. tertiary students, and the private sector during a two-dav project evaluation workshop
for project participants which was organized by the PMU/MOE.
The mission acknowledges the interest, guidance, and support generously extended to it by
the Honorable Minister for Education, Dr. Amoako-Nuama, and by the Deputy Minister, Dr.
Mohamed Ibn Chambas. It recognizes Prof. de Heer-Amissah and his NCTE colleagues for their
professional contributions and reference materials. It expresses its particular appreciation to Mr.
Nortey for the fine organization of both programme and logistics throughout the visit.
Overall Assessment
The Tertiary Education Project sought to implement major reforms in Ghana's higher
education system during a period of considerable political change and economic stringency. In this
context, the project's objectives were clearly ambitious, and vulnerable to the influence of national
election cycles associated with newly introduced democratization. The implementation of tertiary
reforns was therefore slowed initially by changes in ministerial leadership following the first
presidential election in 1992, and delayed similarly during the election hiatus of 1996. For this
reason, a number of the policy actions envisioned to take place in the course of the project were only
undertaken during 1998.



TEP Completion Mission                                                September 22, 19.98
The primary goal ofthe project was to improve the quality of education provided at the
tertiary level. Using this measure, the project clearly cannot be considered a success. Expenditures
per student have declined sharply over the past six years, and the academic community readily admits
that quality has suffered as a result. However, if the project had not existed, educational quality
would have suffered far greater losses. At the same time, significant gains have been registered with
regard to hostel fees, block grant funding, management efficiencies, and institutional capacity
building which hold genuine promise for improvements in financial stability, educational quality,
and system management during the years ahead. On this basis, and given that the management,
procurement, and disbursement of the project itself were very good, this mission assesses overall
TEP project performance as "marginally successful."
Project Development Objectives
Since 1990, tertiary education policy and practice in Ghana have been guided by the
govemment's "White Paper on Reforms to the Tertiary Education System." The goals of these
reforms were incorporated into the development objectives of the Tertiary Education Project:
* to reverse system deterioration, falling standards, and declining quality of education;
* to expand access to tertiary education;
* to establish a stable and sustainable basis for the financing of tertiary education;
- to create institutional capacities for quality monitoring and policy evaluation in the
tertiary education sector.
Sustainable financing was clearly seen as a necessary condition for achieving the stated goals
of improved quality and expanded enrollments. This was to be achieved through the twin strategies
of cost-sharing and efficiency gains. On the former, the White Paper states "It is intended to develop
el SI' on c cost-sharing betvween government, the student population, and the private sector. " It was
explicit in stating its expectation of "gradual assumption of the responsibilityfor the payment offull
costx j 'lodging and incidental expenses " by the student population. On the latter, it prescribed
" increased efficiency in the uitilisation of space, resoutrces, and personnel" in conformity with
"admiiinistrative, financial, and staffing norms which will be laid down by the Ministry of
Education. "
The development objectives of the project were monitored through the use of Key
Performance Indicators that have been recorded during the past six years (Attachment 1). Limited
progress towards the project's development objectives was the focus of the project's Mid-Term
Review in November 1995, where much of the discussion centered on the problems of tertiary
education financing. When the Mid-Term Review did not produce an Action Plan to accelerate
progress towards these objectives as required by the Development Credit Agreement, a Bank
supervision mission classified this performance as "unsatisfactory" in June 1996. The same mission
worked out with the Ministry of Education and the National Council for Tertiary Education a 15
point Policy Action Plan to improve performnance in meeting the project's development objectives.
Actions on cost-sharing were not included in this Policy Action Plan because the Ministry of
Education asserted that the matter was too politically sensitive to be addressed at that time.
- 2 -



TEP Completion Mission                                                  September 22, 1998
By February 1997, substantial progress on 12 of the 15 policy action targets and some gains
on two-of the remaining three points (only the establishment of the Joint Admissions and
Matriculation Board was not advanced) enabled the project's development objectives performance to
be upgraded to "satisfactory." A year later, however, backsliding on this performance again led to an
"unsatisfactory" classification. Areas where earlier gains were reversed included the agreements on
block funding of the tertiary institutions through the National Council on Tertiary Education, the
controlled growth of tertiary enrollments, retention of income eamed by the tertiary institutions, and
improved budgetary resources for the polytechnics. An updated status report for this 15-point Policy
Action Plan appears in Attachment 2.
As this project reaches its conclusion, project performance in achieving its development
objectives is judged to be "marginally satisfactory." This assessment is supported by data from
Attachments 1 and 2, and by discussions during the project evaluation workshop. A short summary
of what the Govemment of Ghana achieved during the project follows.
Educational quality. The tertiary reform responded to a widely perceived decline in
educational quality during the 1980s. In 1990, government expended nearly $2,500 per university
student for recurrent items, and $180 per polytechnic student. If used efficiently, this amount was
still enough to provide an acceptable standard of tertiary education. By 1997, per student recurrent
expenditures at universities had fallen to roughly $900. At polytechnics, the 1997 recurrent
expenditure per student was about $74. These figures suggest that in spite of the tertiary education
reforms launched in 1990, the quality of tertiary education in Ghana during the 1990s has
continuouslv declined. Indeed, world experience indicates that the current funding levels for both
universities and polytechnics are too low to permit credible tertiary education to occur.
The drop in expenditures per tertiary student was the combined effect of two factors. First
and foremost, tertiary education?s share of the education budget was reduced in an unplanned way
from 15% to 12% of the MOE allocation. The assumption that Government would maintain its
previous funding commitment to tertiary education during the project therefore proved unfounded.
Second, enrollment growth in the universities exceeded the agreed ceiling by 15%.
Per student expenditure is, of course, a rather crude indicator of educational quality. It
provides little or no information on the effectiveness of institutional management, the qualifications
of academic staff, the impact of pedagogical techniques, the availability of adequate teaching
equipmiient and physical facilities, the pertinence of library holdings, or the output of researchers.
Nevertheless, the decline in per student expenditures has been so dramatic that it is impossible to
imagine how educational quality might have risen at the same time.
Access. With a tertiary enrollment ratio of less than 3%, it is reasonable for Ghanaians to
expect access to higher education to increase over time. However, if these increases are not
accompanied by a commensurate rise in budgets, the result--as noted above--will compromise
educational quality. For this reason, the project was predicated oii signed agreements with the
Ministry of Education and with the institutions which sought to keep the rate of expansion within
manageable bounds. During the project period, university enrollments expanded from 14,489 to
26.30() (an increase of 82%), surpassing the agreed 1997/98 ceiling of 22,800 for managed system
cxpanlsion bv 15%. Polytechnic enrollments of 13,456 in 1997/98 remained under the agreed ceiling
of 14.000. Overall tertiarv enrollments (universities and polytechnics together) were therefore 8%
above the targets agreed under the project.
-3 -



TEP Completion Mssion                                                   September 22, 1998
Sustainablefinancing. The key to expanding enrollments while maintaining standards of
educational quality is to establish financial arrangements that will prove capable of sustaining the
balance between growth and quality over time. To this end, the Credit Agreement sought to
supplement the tertiary allocation from the national budget by introducing hostel fees, raising
academic charges, and restructuring the student loan program to reduce public subsidies and increase
the repayment rate. At the same time, it aimed to increase the efficiency of resource management by
improving academic staff/student ratios, reducing the numbers of non-academic staff, providing
incentives for institutional income generation, and establishing computerized management
information systems.
Important progress has been achieved in laying a foundation for sustainable financing of the
tertiary system. Following public debate and consultation with stakeholders, Government introduced
significant hostel fees of approximately $65 in August 1998. This amount covers roughly 25% of the
estimated full cost of student accommodation. While the levying of tuition fees is reportedly
proscribed by the country's constitution, polytechnics and universities were able to establish various
cost-recovery charges which averaged from $50 to $85 per student according to the institution. The
student loan scheme remains untouched to date, generating a deficit of some $16 million for the
public purse. (A high level committee has been appointed to recommend appropriate re-structuring
of this program and its report is expected by the end of the year.)
Management efficiency has gotten better, driven as much by enrollment growth and staffing
losses as by strategic management. Academic staff/student ratios have improved from 1:11 to 1:18 at
universities, and from 1:24 to 1:30 at polytechnics. The proportion of non-academic staff to students
has declined from 49% to 28% for the university system overall, although the universities at Legon
and Kuinasi still remain above the agreed ceilings for this indicator. As of this year, government has
agreed to allow the institutions to retain all income generated, instead of deducting it from the
following year's allocation as had been the previous practice. Finally, significant progress has been
registered in the very complex and long-tenn undertaking of establishing computerized management
infonrmation systems within the three main universities. By the year's end, core capabilities for
manlaginig ain integrated system of student records, personnel, and financial administration are
expcctcd to be operational.
Capacities for system monitoring and evaluation.  Three of the four new institutional
capacities to be created under the project for system monitoring and evaluation are now in place and
fuLnctioniing with various degrees of effectiveness. The National Council for Tertiary Education is
staffed, housed, and deeply involved in tertiary financing issues. Since May 1998 its key leadership
positions of Chairman and Executive Secretary have been filled simultaneously for the first time since
January 1996. It has now, after almost three years of negotiations, been given responsibility for
managing government's subvention to tertiary education on a block grant basis. The National
Accreditation Board has visited all polytechnics twice during the past three years, providing
conditional certification to most programs and identifying several for remedial attention. The National
Board for Professional and Technician Examinations examined all polytechnic graduates for 1995,
1 996 and 1997, but has not yet awarded diplomas for these years. This has been due largely to the
Ministrv s inability to find a suitable candidate for the Board's key leadership position of Executive
Secretary. Legislation to create the proposed Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has been
pcnding in Parliament since 1994. Lack of progress recently prompted a decision the National Council
for Tcrtiary Education to establish a joint admissions board under its auspices, thereby creating a badly
nceded capacity for streamlining admissions.
-4 -



TEP Completion Mission                                                     September 22, 1998
Lessons Learned: Development Objectives
Tertiary education projects are unusual in that some of their beneficiary institutions--the
universities--are generally stronger, better endowed, and more capable than other public institutions. In
addition, they possess an organized and influential constituency of staff, students, and alumni who can
act as powerful interest groups. For these reasons, broad consultation and institutional participation is
essential not only in project design, but also continuously throughout the implementation of the project.
Specific lessons can be drawn from the six-year experience of this project which offer
instructive guidance to future higher education projects, particularly in Africa:
(a)    Managed expansion of tertiary enrollments is absolutely essential for maintaining and
improving educational quality, yet various circumstances make it nearly impossible for
govemments to effectively exercise this control--even when bound to do so by legal
covenants in the Credit Agreement. For this reason, Bank staff should be prepared to take
strong measures at the first indication that enrollment growth is exceeding government's
capacity to finance this expansion, or else omit such targets from the Credit Agreement.
Total recurrent expenditure per student from both public and private contributions can be a
useful perfornance indicator for monitoring the balance between quality and expansion.
(b)    It has proven very difficult for the finance/budgetary/audit arm of government to recognize and
affirm education sector and institutional priorities in the allocation of public resources. Both
project and Bank staff are therefore advised to foster good communication and close working
relationships with the Ministry of Finance and its sister agencies (e.g., Auditor General)
throughout the project period.
(c)    The scope for policy actions is very much conditioned by national politics and processes of
political change. In Ghana, recent democratization has led to some loss of control by the
Ministry of Education over policy implementation as the need to forge agreements on policy
initiatives with Parliament and other interest groups has increased. Consequently, the degree
of trust existing among the various stakeholder groups will determine the rate of progress in
implementing tertiary reforms.
(d)    Bank staff recognize the potential of tertiary students to stalemate processes of tertiary
reform, particularly with regard to financial issues such as cost-sharing, student privileges,
student loans, and scholarships. However, the transitory nature of the student body and the
frequent turnover in student leadership mean that effective consultation with students is
difficult to organize and that any consensus reached will be temporary at best. For this
reason, it is recommended that mechanisms for regular communication and consultation with
student representatives be explicitly incorporated into project design. In light of student
interests, however, both the Borrower and the Bank should recognize that such consultation
may frequently prove insufficient to forge agreement. In such cases, the Borrower should
seek first to de-link tertiary admissions from any guarantee of accommodation, and then
move fimlly to implement carefully considered policies.
(c)    Reforms which require changes in the locus of power or control will generate significant
resistancc.
-5 -



TEP Completion Mission                                              September 22, 1798
Project Implementation Status
Disbursement Status
Credit fnds. As of September 15, 1998 the Bank's Loan Status Report showed an
undisbursed balance under the credit of SDR 242, 026 ($322,923). All of this amount is committed
for final payments to suppliers. The PMU's financial closing plan appears in Attachment 3. At this
point, it is expected that 100% of project funds will be spent.
Counterpart funds. The original Credit Agreement called for the Government of Ghana to
contribute $6.3 million of its own funds to the implementation of the Tertiary Education Project.
Agreements reached during the Akuse III discussions with the Bank led this amount to be reduced to
$5.4 million. At present, Government is in arrears with regard to meeting this commitment. It has so
far contributed $3.37 million in counterpart funds plus an additional $1.40 million through the waiver
of various import taxes on project procurements. An amount of $630,000 in counterpart funds
therefore remains to be paid before the closing of project accounts on January 31, 1999. The PMU is
currently holding supplier invoices totaling this amount (cedis 1.4 billion), which can only be met
through the fulfillment of Government's counterpart fund obligation to TEP.
Procurement Status
All civil works financed under the project have been finished and handed over. Shipments of
all books and scientific joumals are complete. Equipment deliveries are concluded with the
exccption of several small supplemental orders made in August 1998. Staff development is complete
apart froni onc person studying in South Africa who will finish in December.
. U flit .StIZtUS
An independent audit of project accounts was submitted to the Bank in timely fashion on
lunlie 29. 1998. The Bank's audit review concurred that the audit report was satisfactory, but
rcquestcd that an ineligible payment of $2,704 be refunded to the project. Audit of the final nine
months of project activity in 1998 will be initiated by the Ministry of Education during September
and concluded before the year's end. Payment will be made from Govemment counterpart funds
currentlv ow ed to the TEP. Receipt by the Bank of an acceptable TEP audit for 1998 will be
necessary prior to the initiation of any formal discussion between the Government and the Bank
regarding possible future assistance to the tertiary sector.
Operational Plan
No operational plan was required in the Development Credit Agreement for this project.
Ti,nietable of Key Actions
A timetable of key actions related to project completion and closing was discussed and
rccorded in Attachment 4.
-6 -



TEP Completion AMssion                                               September 22, 1998
Lessons Learned: Implenentation
(a)    Parallel Donor Funding. In the design of Bank projects which include the
expectation of parallel financing by another donor, care should be taken to ensure
that each donor-financed component can be implemented independent of the other.
The difficulties of coordinating procurement, no-objections, and disbursements by
two separate funding institutions are nearly insurmountable. Under the current
project, for example, Bank inputs of workshop equipment and technical assistance to
the polytechnics were largely negated by considerable delays in the construction and
rehabilitation of polytechnic workshops which were to be undertaken with funding
from the African Development Bank.
(b)    Management Information Systems. This was a "pioneering" experience in Ghana,
and numerous lessons were learned: (i) establish essential infrastructure (phone
lines; networked computers) before launching the introduction of MIS; (ii) use the
above process to identify and foster local "champions"; (iii) familiarize middle
managers with computer technology early in the project; (iv) obtain institutional
commitments to cover system maintenance costs; and (v) only after the above has
been done should the big choices regarding system design be undertaken. This
means that the selection of technical assistance for project management should be
carried out earlier and separately from the choice of software (which should involve
university participation). Software specifications should be detailed enough to hold
the supplier accountable and be based on "good practice" examples. Software choice
should emphasize "no frills" products which enable core MIS capacities to be put in
place because the inclusion of software "bells and whistles" often generates a need
for expensive and time-consuming custom (bespoke) work. Additionally, staffing
changes in MIS management positions are very costly in temis of time lost as well as
funds expended.
(c)    Research Funid. Here as well useful experience was acquired which can guide
similar efforts in the future: (i) research funds should be managed by an institution
with a mandate for and commitment to research, not by the project implementation
unit or parent ministry; (ii) research proposals should be invited from university
departments rather than from individuals to enhance capacity building benefits and
to enable greater accountability through involvement of university finance officers
and fund administrators; (iii) technical evaluators of research proposals should be
paid enough to ensure timely responses.
(d)    Civil Works. Project experience was that in spite of being ear-marked in the
approved MOE budget, it is very difficult to protect counterpart funds for their
intended purpose. Closer monitoring and stricter enforcement of the Credit
Agreement provisions for counterpart funding could be one solution. An alternative
would be to design a project so that the counterpart find requirement does not
exceed 5% of the project budget. Another lesson was that the supervising architects
for civil works should be selected as a condition for project effectiveness so that
technical drawing, communications with contractors, and progress evaluation
procedures can be adcquately considered.
-7 -



TEP Completion Mission                                              September 22, 1998
(e)    Management capacity-building. Short term and in-service training in
professional management techniques for staff at all levels of management should be
a continuous activity throughout the life of any higher education project and
informed, if possible, by a thorough review of existing management and decision
making structures.
(f)    Pedagogic skills development. Programs to improve the pedagogy of academic staff
should be tied directly into the academic management procedures of the
institution(s).
(g)    Project Accounting. Maintain project accounts in SDRs from inception in order to
avoid exchange rates surprises in the final year. Divide accounting tasks among two
or more accountants to ensure internal controls and staffing continuity through
illness or departures. Do not economize on project management funding by
skimping on accounting capacity.
Future Operations
TIhe Honorable Minister for Education has expressed a desire for a second phase of Bank
assistance to the tertiary sector. The focus of this assistance would include: consolidation of the
newly established institutions for monitoring educational quality and institutional performance,
finding a solution to the "polytechnic question," devising cost-effective altematives to expand
tertiary access, improving curriculum relevance, and integrating the tertiary sub-sector with both
secondarv education and other post-secondary alternatives.
In response, the Bank has indicated its willingness to support the continued development of
Glhana's tertiary education system within the parameters of an overall education sector policy
framework and expenditure plan. However, the Bank is not prepared to consider a free-standing
"Tertiary Education Project 11" in the absence of these important reference points.
In the judgment of the Bank mission, the following foundation of policy actions would need
to be in place prior to the commencement of any second phase assistance:
=r'   Updated policy framework for tertiary education.
=>    Action Plan for financial sustainability.
r     Agreements on enrollment growth and the consequences of non-compliance.
>     Budgets which reinforce policy goals.
Block grant for the tertiary sector which includes items 1-8.
Sustainable student loan scheme.
- 8 -



TEP Completion Mfission                                              September 22, 1998
Preparations
If the above six foundation stones can be firmly put in place, then various other building
blocks can be mounted upon them to support a second phase of assistance. Many of these do not
require any additional resources for their implementation.
* Participatory mechanism for project design and implementation.
*  Strategic plans for individual tertiary institutions.
* Various studies and reviews:
a. Labor market demand for tertiary graduates.
b. Expert visitation committee to assess the viability of the polytechnic system and
propose altematives for its future.
c. Costed feasibility study for electronic networking among tertiary institutions.
d. Socio-economic background of students, ability to pay, and an equitable formula
for cost-sharing.
* Assessment of ways to improve space utilization on campuses.
*  System-wide equipment maintenance program.
* Detailed assessment and prioritization of campus rehabilitation needs.
Appreciation
The World Bank team would like to recognize the commitment, professionalism, and hard
work demonstrated by the TEP Project Manager and PMU staff involved in the implementation of
this project. During the early years of the project, they functioned virtually without telephone
service. In 1995/96, the entire academic year was lost to industrial action by university staff.
Periodic scheduled and unscheduled leadership changes at the Ministry of Education, the National
CLouncil for Tertiary Education, the Projects Management Unit, the universities, and the polytechnics
interrupted project momentum and necessitated a continuous process of participant education and
consensus-building around the project's main objectives. At various times, particularly during the
final year, the entire project struggled in the face of nationwide electricity rationing. In spite of these
and other substantial obstacles, the project team succeeded in spending the entire project budget
within essentially the agreed time period. The short nine-month extension of the closing date in
1997 was prompted by delays occasioned by the university staff strike of 1995/96 rather than by any
significant project management shortcomings.
Accra, September 22, 1998
Williarn Saint
Sr. Education Specialist
Human Development 3
Africa Region
-9-



Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
Government:
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Ceiling
Tertiary/Total MOE
ReciurrentBudget         %         15       11      12      11       12       12      12      18.3
Tertiary/MOE
lPIP Budget              %         39       32       32    16        23       38      24      40.0
U)S Investment           a        $0.1m    $0.3m   $0.3m   $0.3m   $0.4m   $0.2m   $0.4m   S1.3mlyr.
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98
Cost Recovery:
Application Fees         a        Univs.       0       0    5000    5000      N.A.   5000    5000/
Gutide    1500   2000    4000                                20,000
Others      ?       ?     1000   5000       N.A.  90,000/ 150,000/
Gutide            1000    1000   2000               100,000 170,000
l lostel Fees/Costs      %        actual      0       0        0       0      N.A.       0       25
target      --     -       100    100      100       100      100
Registrationl +
Application Fees/        %        actial      ?       ?        ?      2       N.A.       3       4
Academic Costs                    target     --       -       --       5       5        5        5
Stuidenit Loans (max)    a        Resident 80,000  163,000 200,000 350,000  NA.  600,000 800,000
target   80,000   90.000  90.000
Non-
Resident 80,0()()  150.(0() 200,00() 350,(0()  N.A.  600,000 800,000
KcN:   Italics = target tiglires                           * Based on FIE calculations in whichi all I-IND
Non-Italics = actual figures                        students equal 1 .0 FEE and all non-tertiary
students represent 0.5 FTE.
NA -   'lle 1995/96 university year was lost due to
an extended strike by academic staft, but the
polytechlics contitiued to tunction.



Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
Tertiary Institutions:
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98
In-takes        No.    UG                  2048   2458    2087    3583    NA.   2682    2578
UST               1909    881    1645    1967    NA.   2088    2177
UCC                803    800    1143    1673    NA.    1972    2511
Total Univs.      4760   4139    4875    7223    NA.   6742    7266
Guideline         4475   4500    4500    5500    5500    5500    5500
Enrollments     No.    UG                  4698    5447   5594    6951   NA.    8495    8606
UST               4754    4374   4451    4890   NA.    6079    6876
UCC               2404    2562   3190    4273   NA.    5342    7264
TotalUnivs.      11,856  12,383  13,235  16,114   NA.   19,916  24,387
Guideline        13,124  14,500  15,500  17,250  18,500  19,500  20,000
UCEW               -       1889   1820    1748    NA.   2955    3425
Guideline         2400    2500   2800    2800   2800    2800    2800
Total Polys*     10,953  10,604  11,407  11,682  12,619  13,141  13,456
Guideline       10,000   10,500  11,000  11,500  12,000  13,000  14,000
FIemale Students!
Total Enrolilnents %     UG                24       24       25     25     NA        31      26
UST               18       1 8      18     20     NA        21      20
UCC               23       25       24     25     NA        27      26
UCEW               -       24       26     29     NA        29     27
Total Polys       30       29       29     23     NA        21      24
StudetLs!
Academic Staff No.       UG                 7        9       10     12     NA        16     15
(Average)               UST                I1        9       10     10     NA        13     15
UCC               16       13       16    21      NA        28     32
UCEW               -       19       18     13     NA        16     28
Guideline          -       -        15    1i       15       15     15
Total Polys*      25       24       27     24      30       27     30
Guiideline        18       18      18      18      18       18     18
Non-Academic
Staff/Students    %      UG                 59      53      46      39      NA       31     35
UST                44      53      50      46      NA       27     31
UCC                45      50      39      26      NA       24     17
Guidelitne         --      --      --       -      30       30     30
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998
Libnrr Acquisi-
tionsrrotai     %        UG                3.0      3.7    3.4      2.0     2.9    2.6
Rectirrent               UST               2.3     2.4    2.4       1.5     2.4    3.1
UCC               0.3     5.5    4.9      2.9      2.7    2.3
Guideline         --       -       --      5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0
Maiiteinance/
Total Recurrent   %      UG                3.0      3.0    3.0      4.0     3.5   1().3
UST               8.5     7.4    7.6       6.7     6.0    5.1
UCC               0.0     0.0    0.0      4.1      2.3    2.0
Guideline          -       -       --      5.0     5.0    5.0    5.0



Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Polytechnics:
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98
Enrollments*     No.      Accra              2441    2058    2623       2853    3246    3164    3426
Cape Coast         346      361      532      799      741     867      970
Ho                1434    1404    1453       1303    1060    1728    1769
Kumasi            2242    2686    2781       2725    3104    2818    2885
Takoradi          3408    2935    2610       2446    2707   2842    2726
Tamale             1082    1160    1408       1509    1761    1722    1680
TOTAL            10,953   10,604   11,407   11,682   12,619   13,141   13,456
Academic Staff   No.      Accra                78     79        73        69      78      75        70
CapeCoast           15      16       23        25      21       33       38
Ho                  81      73       80        79      76       83       81
Kumasi              95      96       88        85      93       97      111
Takoradi            90      89       86        93      75       75       78
Tamale              74      81       80        64      65      71        59
Academic Staff/
Studenit Ratio*    No.    Accra                22      19       26        20      36      42        49
Cape Coast          23      23       23        32      35      26        26
Ho                  18      19       18        17      19      21        22
Kumasi              24      28       32        32      33      29        26
Takoradi            37      33       30        24      36       28       31
Tamale              15       14      18        28      22       22       28
Non-academic/
studetLs *      %        Accra               4         5       4          3       4       3        3
Cape Coast          8        11       9         5       7       6         8
Ho                  4        3        5         4       4       5         3
Kumasi              3        2        2         4       3       3        .4
Takoradi            2        2        2         3       4       4         6
Tamale              6        6        5         4       5       3         6
Female Students  %        Accra               30       29      26        23       21      24        26
CapeCoast          28       28      29         32       18     17        21
Ho                 34       35      33         33       27     35        27
Kumasi             35       31       33        23       27     23        24
Takoradi           26       24      24         22       22     25        24
Tamale             15        13      11        13       14     15        19
22-Sept-98



Attachmont 2
Page 1 of 2
FINAL SUMMARY
15 Point Policy Action Plan
(Agreed wvith the Ministies of Educadon and Finance in June 1996)
1.   Maintain intakes within agreedparameters. Intakes exceeded agreed parameters of
5.500 per year for the three main universities by 23% in 1996/97 and by 32% in 1997/98.
2.   Maintain enrollments within agreed ceilings. As a result of the recent rapid rise in
university intakes (see above), tertiary enrollments now exceed the agreed ceilings by 8%.
3.   Academic fees to increase towards contributing 3% of recurrent budgets.
Acadcrnic fees at the universities and polytechnics have been increased notably over the past two
ycars, and now contribute 4.3% of recurrent budgets according to NCTE calculations.
4.   Annual adjustments to the student loan scheme to be less than 30%. Loan amounts
evcrc increascd by 43% in 1996/97, and by 8% in 1997/98. The 1998/99 adjustment will reportedly
be well under 30%.
5.   7ertiary institutions to receive block granIfirnding via NCTE in accordance with
exiablishedMOE norms. This was requested in 1995, accepted by the Ministry of Finance in 1996,
and partially opcrationalized in 1997. At present, however, this agreement is not being observed by
Govenmcnmt. Repeated assurances have been given that the arrangement will be permanently
established in 1999.
6.    Tertiary institutions be formally permitted to retain all income generated.
Thiis was agreed to by the Ministry of Finance in 1997, but only became operative for the
government's fiscal year of 1998.
7.   Budget share received by Polytechnics to significantly increase in 1997.
Corresponding increases were recommended by the National Council for Tertiary Education for 1997
and again for 1998. In neither year was this recommendation recognized by Govemment in its
allocation decisions. The traditional funding pattems continue to prevail. As a result, the
polytechnics financial position has deteriorated fiirther. Whereas polytechnics were funded at 10% of
the university level in 1995, their proportionate share in 1998 is less than 9%.
8.   Staff/student ratios in each university to be reviewed against the norm of 1: 15 and
tic-wion plans developed where necessary. Enrollment growth over the past two years has pushed this
ratio into compliance with the MOE norm at all tertiary institutions.



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
9.    University non-academic staff to equal no more than 30% of gross student
enrollments. Here again, sharply increased enrollments have enabled significant improvements at all
tertiary institutions, and full compliance at 8 out of the 10 institutions covered by the project.
10.    The two new polytechnics (Sunyani and Koforidua) will not be upgraded at the
expense of the existing tertiary institutions. This has so far not been the case in the 1998 budget. The
establishment of a further two new polytechnics (for a total of ten) has been promised publicly by
govemment officials.
II.   Efforts will be made to identify understaffed polytechnic departments and to include
Jinancial provision for additional staff in the budget. An audit of the staffing situation in the
polytechnics was conducted by NCTE in late 1996 and used to inform the 1997 budget request for
polytechnics. But the recommended budget increase to cover this need was not recognized.
Likewise, agreement by Government to allow the salary provisions for numerous vacant posts to be
ised to hire part-time instructors from business and industry has not been observed. As indicated by
the unacceptably high staff/student ratios of 1:35, the polytechnics remain significantly understaffed.
12.    Proportion offemale tertiary students to gradually increase. Over the past six years,
female participation rates in the universities remain essentially unchanged. At the polytechnics,
female participation has actually declined as non-HND courses, which attracted higher female
enrollments, wvere gradually phased out under the tertiary reform program.
13.    At least 5% of recurrent budgets to be spent on library acquisitions. These
proportions have rarely exceeded 3%.
14.    At least 5% of recurrent budgets to be spent on maintenance. With the exception of
UST, which has averaged 7%, this proportion has generally not surpassed 4% at the other
universities.
15.    Establish .Joint Admissions and Matrictulation Board. Legislation to establish
JAMB has been on the Parliamentary agenda for more than three years. Sustained opposition to this
lcgislative proposal by the universities recently prompted the National Council for Tertiary
Education to establish a joint admissions board under its own auspices.



Attachment 3
Financial Closing Plan
AGREED REMAINING PAYMENTS
1. Jos Hansen                              $11,000
2. Dennis Lee                               22,400
3. Sherwood                                 39,947
4. Kennedy International                    36,339
5. Blackwells                               42,000
6. Commonwealth Higher Education
Management Service - CHEMS              103,000
7. Feedback, UK                             17,627
8. John Laing                                7,309
9. African Virual University equipment      42,000
TOTAL                                     $321,622



Attachment 4
Timetable of Key Actions for Project Closing
ACTION          RES~~~~~PON SIBIIT    DLUEDATE:
Initiate 1998 audit.                     PMU          October 1, 1998
Initiate studies on labor market for     NCTE        October 15, 1998
tertiary graduates, student socio-
economic background, information
technology development, and
institutional strategic plans.
Establish external visitation committee  NCTE         November 1, 1998
to advise on policy and priorities for
development of the polytechnic sub-
sector.
Obtain all final research reports from   PMU          November 1 5, 1 998
researchers and make payments.
Submit 1 0-page project completion     MOE/PMU        December 15, 1998
report to World Bank.
Submit 1 998 audit to World Bank.      PMU/MOE        December 31, 1999
Organize seminar to review the draft     NCTE         January 26-27, 1999
Implementation Completion Report.
Complete Financial Closing Plan          PMU          January 31, 1999
(see Attachment 3 above)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.0   Introduction
This is the project completion report for Ghana Tertiary Education Project for which
Credit 2428-Gh in the amount of SDR 31,200,000 (equivalent to USS45m) was approved
on 30th September 1992, signed on November 9, 1992 and became effective on January 8
1993.
The credit was to close on December 21"S 1997 but was extended to September 301h 1998
to allow a number of pipeline activities to mature. The project's first disbursement was
made in March 1993. By end of September 1998,-the project had disbursed the credit
funds and had also largely achieved most of the elements in the development objectives
set for it although, sustainable finar eYng remained an issue.
2.0    Development Objectives of the Project
The Tertiary Education Project was designed to help accomplish Government's stated
policy goals for the tertiary sector. Policy since 1991 has been largely guided by the
White Paper on reforms to the Tertiary Education System.  Its principal goals are
restructuring, consolidation, and upgrading of tertiary institutions; improved educational
quality and relevance through curriculum revision and quality monitoring; managed
expansion of the system  to increase access and equity, particularly for women;
diversification of funding sources to stabilize and sustain the system; and more efficient
management.
Selected performance indicators were established and monitored throughout the project in
order to assess policy impact in the areas of quality enhancement, management efficiency,
controlled expansion, female participation, institutional capacity building and sustainable
financing.
It was agreed at the Mid Tern Review (November 1995) to accelerate the progress
towards the achievement of the policy objectives. A 15 point policy action plan was
therefore agreed to this effect. By early 1997 considerable progress had clearly been
made in achieving 12 out of the 15 action plans, with slower progress on three.
We assess briefly the project perfomnance in attaining these objectives.
3.0    Assessment of Performance in Aligning Development Objectives
3.1    Oualitv Enhancement & relevance
The tertiary reforms responded to a perceived decline in educational quality during the
1980s. This was due to a combination of a long period during which capital goods such
as equipment and structures deteriorated, and teaching materials, especially books and
joumals, were hardly available. However sufficient government recurrent expenditures
were provided to enable the institutions run from year to year. The project therefore
provided support for capital goods in the form of civil works, equipment, books and
journals. In addition, considerable training of both academic and non-academic staff was



undertaken. There were a number of consultancies to improve teaching methods and
review of curriculum. All these interventions had positive impact on the quality of
education and thereby halted the decline in quality. Indeed more could have been
achieved if govermnent resources committed to the sub-sector had not been reduced from
15% of the education budget to 12%.
3.2   Management Efficiencv
Management efficiency improved considerably. However, this was driven by enrollment
growth and staffing losses rather than strategic management. Academic staff/student
ratios have improved from 1:11 to 1:18 at universities, and from 1:24 to 1:30 at
polytechnics. The proportion of non-academic staff to students declined from 49% to
28% for the university system overall, although the universities at Legon and Kumasi still
remain above the agreed ceilings for this indicator. As of this year, governnent has
agreed to allow the institutions to retain all income generated instead of deducting it from
the following years' allocation as had been the previous practice. Significant progress has
been registered in the very complex and tong`-term undertaking of establishing
computerized management information systems within the three main universities. By the
end of 1998, core capabilities for managing an integrated system of student records and
personnel had become operational.  A  financial administration system  would be
operational in February 1999.
3.3   Controlled Expansion
Government policy is to improve access to higher education and raise the tertiary
enrollment ratio above the present 3%. However any increase must be accompanied by a
commensurate rise in budgets in order not to compromise quality. For this reason, it is
important to keep the rate of expansion within manageable bounds which the project
sought to do. During the project period, however, university enrollments expanded from
14,489 to 26,300 (an increase of 82%), surpassing the agreed 1997/98 ceiling of 22,800
for managed system expansion by 15%. Polytechnic enrollments of 13,456 in 1997/98
remained under the agreed ceiling of 14,000. Overall tertiary enrollments (universities
:'t(d polvtechnics together) were therefore 8% above the targets agreed under the project.
In the 1999 budget therefore the government's allocation to the tertiary sector has been
increased from 12% to 15% in order to maintain quality. Again, government in 1997 and
1998 allowed extra budgetary allocation of US$6.6m to shore up quality.
3.4   Female Participation
Female participation increased only marginally from 24% to 29% during the project
period. Substantial improvement in female participation in the tertiary sector is being
pursued through an affirmative action programne in favour of female university
applicants.
3.5   Institutional Capacity Buildinv
The National Council for Tertiary Education (NCTE), the National Accreditation Boar-d
(NAB) and the National Board for Professional and Technician Examination
(NABPTEX). Three of the five new institutions to be created under the tertiary reforms
2



for system monitoring and evaluation are now in place, staffed, housed, and actively
functioning. Responsibility for managing govemment's subvention to tertiary education
on a block grant basis is being implemented by the NCTE. The NAB has visited all
polytechnics twice during the past three years, providing conditional certification to most
programmes and identifying those which require remedial attention. The NABPTEX
examined all polytechnic graduates for 1995, 1996 and 1997, but is yet to award diplomas
for the three years. This has been due largely to a difficulty in finding a suitable
candidate for the Board's key leadership position of Executive Secretary. The NCTE is
now to establish the forth institution a Joint Admissions Mechanism, under its auspices,
thereby creating a badly needed capacity for streamlining admissions. This will be
operational for the next academic year. The fifth institution, the National Teaching
Council will be established in 1999.
3.5   Sustainable Financinz
The key to expanding enrollments while maintaining standards of educational quality is to
establish financial arrangements that will prove capable of sustaining the balance between
growth and quality over time. To this end, the Credit Agreement sought to supplement
the tertiary allocation from the national budget by the introduction of hostel fees, raising
academic charges, and restructuring the student loan programme to reduce public
subsidies and increase the repayment rate. At the same time, it aimed to increase the
efficiency of resource management by improving academic staff/student ratios, reducing
the numbers of non-academic staff, providing incentives for institutional income
generation, and establishing computerized management information systems.
Important progress has been achieved in laying a foundation for sustainable financing of
the tertiarv svstem. Following considerable public debate and consultation with
stakeholders, Govermnent introduced hostel fees of approximately S65 per student per
academic year in August 1998. This amount covers roughly 25% of the estimated full
cost of student accommodation. While the levying of tuition fees is not encouraged by the
country's Constitution, polytechnics and universities were able to establish various cost-
recovery charges which averaged from S50 to $85 per student per academic year
according to the institution.  The student loan scheme remains untouched to date,
however, and has generated a deficit of some $16 million to date from the public purse. A
high level committee has been appointed to recommend appropriate re-structuring of this
loan package and its report is expected by the end of 1998.
4.0   Implementation Arrangements
Three institutions (the PMU, NCTE and MOE) have played key roles in the
implementation of the project. The Project has been implemented by the Projects
Management Unit of MOE which was set up to operationalise the disbursement of donor
and GOG earmarked funds for effective and timely execution of projects. The Unit has
three main sub-units: Disbursement, Procurement and Civil Works. The Project Manager
plans and facilitates the execution of the project.
The NCTE, which is the main channel between the tertiary institutions and the MOE, has
been closely involved in the project and has fully participated in decision making for the
Project.
3



The role of the MOE has been paramount as it provided leadership, not only in the
attainment of policy objectives, but also for ensuring that the right momentum existed for
timely execution of the project.
5.0   Implementation Performance
5.1    Civil Works
Civil Works which began in November 1994 was planned to be completed in 24 months.
In the event it took 36 months to complete. Part of The delay was due to the need to have
the 20% GOG matching funds available in good. time for settlement of bills as these fell
due. 80%'o of contracted funds was nornally paid from project funds within the required
period of 28 days. However, the remaining 20% (i.e. the counterpart funds) sometimes
took 5 to 8 months to come through. Nonetheless, all works had been completed by end
of project. The original planned cost was S17.8m; final cost amounted to $16.74 million.
A key lesson leamed from this experience is that there is need to improve and update
skills in works monitoring in order to perform better next time round.
5.2   Books & Journals
The original budget in the category of Books & Joumals was over-spent. This was
necessary to ensure an additional year's supply of journal subscriptions beyond the
planned S4.3m. In the end, S5.24 million was disbursed.
5.3   Equipment
There were three sub-categories: laboratory/workshop equipment, computers and
accessories; and vehicles.
Thle procurement of the planned 514.5m worth of laboratory and workshop equipment
was most challenging. Messrs Crown Agents was sub-contracted to assist with the
specifications and the evaluation of the bulk of the equipment. This was efficiently done
and as a result $11.5 million was spent instead orS 14.5 million to procure equipment.
On computers, expenditure of $2.2 million was planned but only $1.9 million was
disbursed. Vehicles did not play a major part in the procurcii;ent exercise with a total
expenditure of $0.5m.
There is a need to develop a standard equipment list for the various categories of
equipment for tertiary institutions and have this accepted for use by the NCTE. This
would remove the arguments which color the procurement process particularly as the
Heads of Departments who put in the specifications are not usually those who receive
them. Also there is no reason why specifications could not be settled during appraisal to
expedite procurement and delivery of the equipment in the institution during the tenure of
the Heads who initiate the process.
4



5.4    Staff Development
The importance of upgrading the administrative, academic and academic support staff of
tertiary institutions cannot be overemphasized. For this reason the project undertook a
combination of training programmes: upgrading courses overseas for administrative,
technical and academic staff; and conferences on science and technology, development
and new approaches to teaching and learning and research in the universities.
Local and overseas training was also provided for the polytechnics, including 2 to 3 years
degree programmes provided at UST. Short courses were also undertaken. Indeed, there
has been substantial investment in training for the polytechnics. A resource center to
support M.Tech programmes has been created at School of Engineering, UST. Thus, the
capacity and the equipment to deliver M.Tech Ed. programmes in various specialized
skills is available to the School anicTian be used-well beyond the polytechnic level.
Finally, credit funds were invested in creating role models in science-based post-graduate
female students. In all, 20 female science based post-graduates benefited. The impact of
this investment can only be assessed when the candidates graduate and begin to take up
positions in the tertiary institutions and in industry.
3.D    Technical Assistance
The second component under the institutional support arrangement of the project is the
xvide field described as technical assistance. The use of consultants under this project has
not been excessive. The project has used a good mix of local and foreign consultants.
The results have generally been the same, that is, when the consultants are supervised
closely, the results are better. Thus, substantial benefit was gained from the services of
Crown Agents, British Council, Linesman, and MUSIA. The allocation made for the
NCTE to strengthen its capacity could have been better applied, though.
In this broad area, assistance was acquired in the areas of civil works supervision;
equipment specification writing, evaluation, installation, manuals development and
training in new tecinologies in six fields of engineering in polytechnics; career advisory
services; and management information system covering purchase, installation and
training. Two of these areas are evaluated:-
Ch.i; V,ork s
Three firms were appointed to supervise the 14 civil works contracts in the nine
institutions country wide. The sites were zoned into three to take supervision closer to the
sites. Although the supervisors have done reasonably welt, they have tended to take on
too many jobs and thereby become part of the civil works problems. We cannot in the
future afford the cost of this class of consultancy.
5.6   !f anazement Inforrnation System (MIS)
One great challenge has been in the area of MIS for the three older universities. What the
MIS seeks to do is to provide technological skills and support for making informed
financial decisions based on hard data.
5



A budget of $451,000 was originally proposed. However 1.7million was spent. Perhaps
with commitment on the part of the universities, a fuller transition could have been
achieved by now. The selection of staff, commitment of such staff, stability in their
positions is necessary to make the final transition.
5.7   Research Fund
It was initially proposed to invest the USSlm allocated under the project and use the
proceeds to finance research in the universities on a long-term basis. However, this was
not possible under IDA rules. Subsequently, the required level of management support for
research activities was not provided. In the end only S482,000 of the $1.0m was
committed under the project. Fortunately, the management committee which improved
considerably after a major intervention has managed the system well. It has also
developed guidelines which can be shared with the institutions to improve the
management of their research operations. Also, following one workshop on proposal
writing, the need for providing more of such skills -and techniques has come to the fore.
Consequently, it is recognized that research writin& skills must assume an even bigger
profile in future proposals for research assistance.
6.0    Evaluation of Mlanagement Performance
6.1   MOE/Proiects Management Unit
The 1992 political change over brought about by the adoption of the new Constitution did
affect the speed of operation of the PMTJ. Thus eight months, which subsequently turned
into 12-14 months delay in deliveries, was lost. In the end the physical implementation of
the agreed programmes has been accomplished buLt not within the agreed time frame.
i&ver the five-year period of the project the PMU has developed considerable capacity in
the area of procurement and in project management which the Ministry may consider an
asset for future use. The level of personal skills acquired (even by the most junior of the
staff) in the period is considerable and must not be ignored as these have been acquired at
considerable cost.
The NCTE must now take full responsibility for the tertiary reforrns. The NCTE should
establish a policy advisory unit which will keep under constant review the tertiary policy
agenda. It is also important for the Ministry of Education to establish a 'desk' within the
ministry to deal with tertiary policies and operations.
6.2    World Bank Headquarters
The Bank has the advantage of being better informed than beneficiaries through its
wvorldwide operations from which it is able to draw on experiences gained globally.
Moreover, the project supervision staff has been stable which has provided several
advantages and greatly facilitated project execution.
But the Bank could have been more sensitive to the political constraints in the country
and acted in ways to reflect awareness that where change involves people it necessarily
takes longer to implement.
6



6.2.1  The Resident Mission
Tlle Resident Mission has been most supportive. In the initial stages, all 'no objections'
were issued in Accra.
The Bank-'s experience and information available to it should encourage Ghana to
improve the level of its technical work. To be real partners, the Bank, the Government
and the tertiary institutions should continue to build on the process of development of
local human capacity and the matching of strategic needs to required funding.
Universities
While the SAR which governs the~day-to-day -running of projects is set, a change from
one Vice Chancellor to another may mean a huge change in the institution's perception of
what the project direction ought to be or should have been. There is therefore need to
ensure that commitments made by institutions remain institutional commitments over the
medium to long term.
The office of Pro Vice Chancellor in the universities should still be used as the point of
main contact with Planning Officers as the main liaison.
The institutions need to have a permnanent information flow and monitoring system for the
reform agenda. This should bridge the communication gap between the universities and
the MvOE.
Polvtechnics
The biggest problem has been the lack of human resource, all round. There is need to
continue to broaden the base of experts who can provide sound and cogent advice. There
is also need to improve the institutions' capacity to deal with the transition from second
cycle to tertiary as originally envisaged. The country does not need just another set of
Junior Universities' but polytechnics in their own right, which are linked, on the one
hiand, to the technical institutes below and, on the other, to industry and to the
universities.  It is necessary to demonstrate commitment to polytechnics through
providing adequate funding levels. Thiere is definitely need for more investment in the
polytlccnnics and in tlhc ge-eira, aiEaS 0o sm1iis development. Otherwise, management of
the polytechnics has been most supportive of the projects development objectives.
7



7.0    General Lessons Learned
7.1   Enhanced Oualitv Education
The value and therefore the need to enhance the quality of education and in improving
management of the institutions is fully appreciated. At the inception of the project, the
level of staffing,, equipment, books and journals were so low that serious discussion of
quality was rightlv considered utopian. Today the picture is different. A fair amount of
equipment is in place; bookTs and journals have been supplied; and a number of computer
laboratories have been established. Also students have a better academic environment for
their study. There is now need to return to quality enhancement as a key issue. The
higher the quality demanded, the more the resources that wvill have to be made available.
A feasible balance is required.
There is also need to diversify funding sources more and away from direct government
allocation. The change to Blockl Grants is long overdue.
7.1. 1  Financial Sustainabilitv
Secondly the issue of financial sustainabilitv must be addressed more purposefully. The
students are now providing 25% of their residential cost. This should in the short term
move to 50% and then on to 100% over the medium-term.
The Loan Scheme should be made self supporting. Hopefully, this will be done in the
1999 financial year. The burden on government has become simply too heavy. (Presently
govemment has paid cl5b of the c32b owed SSNIT for the scheme). These deficits
(firectiv relate to the larger enrolment which has been admitted to the institutions. It is
important for NCTE to ensure that intak-e is better controlled.
7.2   Implementation Arrangements
For a time the arraiglement which allowed the PMU to spearlhead project implementation
was adequate. With hindsigiTt there is need for the NNCTE to actively play that role
between the MOE and tertiary institutions. The cooun.unication gap between the Ministry
and tertiary institutions will be better bridged that way. The NCTE should be fully staffed
with the rec.  -: xinertise to nsure so..c- . ntnanciai rm..:>a enment of the funds which are
disbursed through blockl grants.
The Council should also have a policy planning and review unit to identify and analyse
emerging issues as well as constantly keeping the aims of the tertiary reforms on the
agenda. A technical unit which should plan and execute future tertiary projects should
also be set up with the enhanced NCTE.
The need for local and national implementation committees should also be kept alive in
order to ensure further participation of the institutions in project activities.



7.3   Procurement
Physical execution of bulk procurement activities may remain with MOE/ FPMU. The
skills in this area of specialisation should be sharpened. The specifications, terms of
reference and other details for required goals and services should be provided by the
NCTE. But the actual procurement using donor guidelines should be done by the FPN{U.
At the end of the day, it must be ensured that the institutions and the NCTE adopt an open
procurement system
7.4   Financial Auditing
Considerably more finance staff should have beenr hired under the project. The project
wvorked virtually with only one key staff member .for too long.  Audits, as a result,
delayed. Also queries took too lonj to answer.
7.5    Conmmunication
There is need to improve physical communication. Specifically, this will entail ensuring
that all institutions have phones, faxes and E-mail services. This is too important to defer
anv longer.
Secondlv there is need to find wavs of ensuring that institutional memories are retained.
This .vould help improve communication between MOE and the institutions. There is
need to deliberately foster the flow of information within and among the tertiary
I list iLltions.
A.ssessment Of Project Sustainability
It x\as initially planned to raise residential charges in the 1992/1993 academic year.
However, this was postponed for good reason. In 1998 the decision was implemented.
The block grant system of funds releases is the next policy reform that is to be fully
implcmented. The gains engendered by these reforms must be consolidated.
There is also need for a system which periodically improves curriculum review in line
wkith new skills, new needs in industry and the economy in general. As more of the cost
of trainin, at the tertiary level is passed on to the beneficiaries, they are likely .v demand,
in the near future, the programs they will be willing to pay for.
Besides providing staff with new skills, new facilities, there is also need to ensure that
thev stav.  Talk about quality education will not be very productive without the
appropriate incentives for staff.  The economy needs properly trained and skilled
manpowver. It is not beyond Ghana to be innovative in resolving this difficult issue.
To make the tertiary system sustainable, there is need to guarantee funds to keep the flow
ot books, joumals, equipment, chemicals, computers, maintenance of equipment and of
academic buildings up to the required standard and also to be able to add on to these
(when there is proven need for additional physical facilities). Internal mechanisms for
curriculum change, should be established; staff appraisal systems must be made to work;
and we all channels for discussion must be kept open.
9



The tertiary institutions have come of age, and are willing to generate the additional funds
they require. There is a strong need for government, its development partners and other
stakleholders to encourage and support them is this endeavow.
10



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24061
3-                          2-                           1'0t1                                                                                     2'
BURKINA FASO                                           K.
GHANA
tOLATG _                             kpo    TERTIARY EDUCATION
< b \ WEeST                       /                                  9. Lcri ....PROJECT
\      UNIVERSITIES
Wo,      ga                                    A    UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
POLYTECHNICS
\  \   0                      f NORTH~~~~ERN           -          pii 
PRIMARY ROADS
iZhorehe       f           0 _ _SECONDARY ROADS
Ch-h.                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - TERTIARY ROADS
-9 l t t \0 W \ 0 / , ' 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RAILWAYS
z)  >   M.,9  %>    2          )   $       Bim>          _J           @o     REGION HEADQUARTERS
   \NATIONAL CAPITAL
COTE                                                            \                                                          \ >  g / < pa g J j t \\ REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/ )    ,   , /    / BRODNG-AHO                                       l        i   0
8.k. t                                                                                   0   20  Q0  60   w rOWIEIrS
SJUNYA9                             tXuo<                                            N$ 
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
)  WESTERN   <    >  A  t   X  >bTER                                                         ,  ,                     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ths oo
KUMASI 1TOG'Ot X      e   //k          C     R      A                              by The
P   j9TurElo    '   >    4  _ f                                                   rw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~doela6y ibr PEe C,0r,onYete3
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roje t  EOSTfeooooinoE ien3mpis v6ed
-  < V.SENONDI                                                                            a-7y j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iodqameot 007 Ekr lego0 
sew                           0                       b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eOoy0
.   -   . ~~~~~~~~~~~Trvkrarradv                                                       en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odorse,oeot erroo0cpne f.
.   -  .               '                    ~~~~~~~~~~GUt.0 Of~ (YUltN.4  :o suboBonokoen.                     --
.'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ',                                                                                                , 
a,  00                        V                                                           V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  an   2   h
_ ..I . I  _.=-  2  -  -  rJULY 1992=
b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL =1992 



