C             /-          2-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MTICROFICHE Copy
Report No. :1089-GH          Type: (SAR)                  Report No.  10869-GH
T It e:  TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Author: BERK, D
Ext.:34897 Room:J6j65 Dept.:AF4PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 30, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aulthorization.,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1992)
Currency Unit - Cedi
US$1        =      C415
¢100       =      US$0.24
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF           -     African Development Fund
CIDA          -     Canadian International Development Agency
CU            -     Coordinating Unit for Managing External Funding
FUA           -     Fund Units of Account
HED           -     Higher Education Division
IDA           -     International Development Association
ILO           -     International Labor Organization
JSS           -     Junior Secondary School
MOE           -     Ministry of Education
NICTR         -     National Implementation Committee for Tertiary Reform
ODA           -     Overseas Development Administration
PC            -     Personal Computer
PNDC          -     Provisional National Defence Council
RECAAST       -     Regional Colleges for Applied Arts, Science and Technology
SOE           -     Statement of Expenditure
SSNIT         -     Social Security and National Insurance Trust
SSS           -     Senior Secondary School
UC            -     University College (at Winneba)
UCC           -     University of Cape Coast
UG            -     University of Ghana
USAID         -     United States Agency for International Development
UST           -     University of Science and Technology
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
October I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................. iv
1. INTRODUCTION.                                                                 1
H. EDUCATION IN GHANA WTh SPECIA REFERENCE TO TERTL4RY
EDUCATION .................1 ,
A. The Education Sector.                                                     1
B. Tertiary Education.                                                       3
1. Institutions and Course Offerings.                                    3
2. Enrollments and Staffing.                                             4
3. Current Condition of Tertiary Education            .5
4. Costs and Financing.                                                   6
5. Supply of and Demand for Graduates.                                    8
6. IDA Role and Activities.                                              10
7. Other External Assistance .11
IM. THE GOVERNMENT'S TERTLARY EDUCATION PROGRAM .11
1. Introduction .11
2. Integration .12
3. Restructuring .12
4. Rehabilitation and Quality Improvement .14
5. Expansion.                                                            15
6. Management .18
7. Efficiency, Costs and Financing .19
8. Reforms and Performance Monitoring .23
IV. THE PROJECT .24
1. Project History ...................................... 24
2. Project Objectives ............ 24
3. Summary Project Composition ............  24
4. Project Description ................................... 24
5. Project Costs and Financing .28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Ghana in March 1992, comprising
Messrs. D. Berk (Principal Economist and mission leader), N. Bennett (Principal Planner),
V. Selvaratnam (Senior Educator), R. Lewis (Educator/consultant) and K. Brown (Technical
Educator/consultant).   Messrs. W. Saint (AFTED) and J. Salmi (PHREE) were peer
reviewers/lead advisers for the operation. Messrs. I. Porter and E. Lim are the managing
Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)                                                  Page No.
V. PROJECTIMPLEM[ENTATION  .                ............................. 30
1. Process and Status of Preparation      .......................... 30
2. Project Management and Coordination ....................... 30
3. Procurement ..............                                           33
4. Disbursements, Accounts and Audit ......................... 37
5. Environmental Aspects ..........        ....................... 38
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................ 38
1. Benefits . ..........................................  38
2. Risks ............................................. 39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                        ........ 40
TEXT TABLES
1.   Enrollments ............................................   17
2.   Recurrent Budgets for Education .........       ...................... 21
3.   Project Cost Summary  .....................................                29
4.   Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......        .............. 35
5.   Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit  ......     ............... 37
CHARTS
1.   Plan for Implementation of Structural Reform of Education
2.   Current Tertiary Institutions and Qualifications Awarded
3.   Proposed Tertiary Education System, Qualifications and Student Path
ANNEXES
2A-1 Comparative Education Indicators
2A-2 Student Flows
2A-3 Recurrent Expenditure on Education
2A4 Public Investment Program in Education
2A-5 Unit Costs by Level of Education and Institutions, 1989/90
2B-1 Tertiary Intakes and Enrollments
2B-2 Staff at Tertiary Institutions
2B-3 Scholarships/Bursaries/Loans Scheme for Students
2B-4 Educated Manpower, 1960 and 1984
2B-5 Results of Tracer Study of Graduates, 1992
3-0  Letter of Higher Education Development Policy
3-1  Tertiary Reform Program: Policy Matrix, 1991-1995
3-2  Courses at the Universities and Polytechnics, 1992/93-1995/96
3-3  Projected Enrollments, 1988-2000
3-4  Staffing Norms
3-5  Projected Unit and Total Recurrent Costs, 1990/91-2000/01
3-6  Studeit Loan Scheme
3-7 Public Investment Program in Tertiary Education, 1992-1994



Table of Contents (cont'd)           - iii -
4-1  Central Component
4-2  Institutions: Civil Works
4-3  Institutions: Laboratory and WorkLhop Equipment and Equipment Maintenance
4-4  Institutions: Core Textbooks, Library, Journals and Reference Books
4-5  institutions: Computers
4-6  Institutions: Vehicles
4-7  Institutions: Staff Development
4-8  Institutions: Rerearch Funding
4-9  Institutions: Technical Assistance
4-10 Project Cost Summary (Expetditures by Component)
4-11 Project Cost Summary (Expenditures by Type)
5-1  Procurement
5-2  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5-3  Key Performance Indicators
54  Proposed Supervision Plan
5-5  Documents Contained in the Project File
MAP: IBRD 24061



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boffower:           Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Education
Universities of Ghana, Science and Technology, and Cape Coast
University College
Six polytechnics
Credit Amunt:       SDR 31.2 million (US$45 million equivalent)
T erms:            Standard, with 46 years maturity
Eoject
Description:        The project will support the first phase (1992-96) of the Government's
tertiary education reform program, with stress on (a) attempted quality
improvement in teaching and learning; (b) improved management; (c)
increased autonomy with accountability for the universities; and (d) a
gradual expansion of enrollments. The two components of the project
will be: (a) A central component for MOE and proposed new boards
for accreditation, admissions and examinations, consisting of: (i) office
equipment, computers, and vehicles, (ii) staff development, (iii)
technical assistance, (iv) studies, and (v) assistance in project
management; and (b) An institutional component for each of the
three established universities, a proposed University College, and the
six existing polytechnics, consisting of: (i) civil works, involving
rehabilitation and selected new academic facilities, and facilities for
non-resident students, (ii) essential laboratory and workshop
equipment and equipment maintenance, (iii) core textbooks, library
journals and reference books, (iv) computers, (v) vehicles, (vi) staff
development, (vii) research funding (at the universities), and (viii)
management and technical assistance.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The most important benefits will be in terms of quality, management
and expansion. Academic program overhaul, staff development, and
the rehabilitation or provision of most physical academic inputs will
attempt to produce a substantial improvement in the quality of both
teaching and learning. Management assistance and training will
increase efficiency and help contain unit costs. The provision of
enough academic spaces and of facilities for more non-resident
students will enable the Government and the educational institutions to
meet better the needs of an accelerating economy and expand access.



There is a risk that the political transition and possible personnel
changes in Ghana at the end of 1992 could change the Government's
tertiary education program, but substantial change is considered
unlikely. The sector risks are that MOE could lose control of tertiary
enrollments, especially during the years 1994/95-1997/98 when
graduates from both old and new secondary school systems will
converge on tertiary education; that intended efficiency gains in
tertiary education will not be achieved; and therefore that there will be
a budgetary explosion in tertiary education. The first will be
mitigated by campaigns of public and political education, but remains
a cause for concern. The second is being addressed by the agreements
already negotiated between the Government and the universities to
implement adjusted staffing norms, and by project and other actions to
accommodate larger numbers of non-resident students; but faculty
resistance and student unrest remain significant risks. Tlhe budget risk
will be mitigated by the Government's strategy, and donor
encouragement, to promote and safeguard appropriate levels of
education. The project risk is that MOE's implementation capacity
will be insufficient. It is being addressed through capitalizirg, VA
MOE's implementation experience through a combined project
management unit; covenants on initial project irmplementation staffing;
use of personnel from educational institutions; and extensive i'se of
consultants and procurement and other agents to assist MOE.
Estimated Proiect Costs:                Lcal   Foreign      Diad
~(UJS$ million)
Civil Works                              8.7       5.8       14.5
Equipment                                0.0       12.5      12.5
Books & Journals                         0.0       3.7        3.7
Computers                                0.0        1.9       1.9
Vehicles                                 0.0        1.0       1.0
Staff Development                         1.1       1.0       2.1
Technical Assistance                     0.7       2.5        3.2
R.search                                 0.5       0.5        1.0
Studies                                  0.5       0.1        0.6
Incremental Re-
curren; Costs                           1.9       0.2       2.1
Taxes and Duties                          1.4       0.0       1.4
Total Base Cost                   14.8      29.2      44.0
Physical Contingencies                    1.3       2.9       4.2
Price Contingencies                       1.0       2.2       3.2
Total Project Cost                17.1      34.3      51.4



- vi -
P;nancing Plan:                    LMca        Foreign     Tota
(US$ million)
IDA                               ,2.0         33.0         45.0
Government of Ghana                5.1          1.3          6.4
Total                             17,1         33A
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years                     2.    29      25    26    97   29
----US$ million)
Annual                              7.8    7.2   10.0   10.0   7.0   3.0
Cumulative                          7.8   15.0  25.0  35.0  42.0  45.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
MXW:                  EBRD 24061



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          TTe Governmene of Ghana is extending its education sector reform program to
the tertiary education subsector. It has requested IDA assistance of SDR 31.2 million (US$45.0
million equivalert) to finance a project for the subsector covering the years 1993-96.
II.   MDUCATION IN GHANA WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE
TO TERTIARY EDUCATION
A.    The Education Sector
2.1          Until the mid-1970s Ghana had one of the most highly-leveloped educational
systems in West Africa. Along with the economic decline of the next decade, however, the
quality of the system deteriorated and enrollment rat;, stagnated or fell. Public resources for
education fell from 6.4% of GDP in 1976 to 1.4% in 1983. Government was no longer t )le to
construct, complete and maintain educational facilities. At the same time, foreign exchange dried
up, preventing the purchase of textbooks, library materials and other essential instructional
materials. The economic decline also led to a mass exodus of trained teachers, especially
university faculty and the more highly-trained and qualified school teachers.
2.2          Ghana's Economic Recovery Program has always stressed the importance of
education to produce people with the knowledge and skills required for development. It has
succeeded in reversing the precipitous fall in the provision of education services that preceded
its introduction. The Government launched a major multi-year, sector-wide educational reform
in 1987. It had four principal objectives, corresponding to major problems of the system:
2.3           To reduce the previous inordinate length of pre-university education. This was
taking up to 17 years, against an international norm of 12 years, and consisted of short school
days and years. This would have the effect of increasing access to secondaqy education, and
would also free up public resources;
2.4           To improve pedagogic efficiency and raise the quality and relevance of
educational outcomes.  The old curriculum emphasized rote recall; textbooks and other
instructional materials were scarce; buildings were poorly maintained; the proportion of untrained
teachers was high; and school leavers received an academic training fitting them only for modern
sector wage employment, which could not keep pace;
2.5           To contain and partially recover costs. Overstaffing was significant, especially
of non-teaching staff and the untrained teachers; feeding and lodging costs of secondary and
tertiary students accounted for a significant proportion of budgetary resources; c *st recovery for
textbooks was derisory; and funds were often misappropriated.



-2 -
2.6          TQ enhance sector management and budgetlng procedures. Physical and financial
norms did not exist or were not enforced; planning and budgeting were separated; budget
uncertainties hindered planning; management decisions resporded to crises; and rmonitoring was
in,sufficient, especially at school level.
2.7          The structure of the educational system was changed to six years of priniary,
three years of junior secondary (JSS), three years of senior secondary (SSS), and (prospectively)
four years of tertiary education. The reform program thus divided into phases: primary and JSS
from 1987 to 1990; SSS from 1991 to 1993; while the tertiary reform program will cover the
next four years in its first phase and accommodate the first cohort from the new SSS from 1994.
2.8          Enrollment increases have accelerated at all levels of education after a long period
of stagnation. Nine years of basic education (primary plus JSS) are offered to all children. The
primary gross enrollment ratio reached 82% in 1990/91, with the more rapid increases in
previously under-served areas. JSS enrollments are 51% of the 12-14 age-group. Tertiary
enrollments are increasing significantly, but are still only a little under 1% of the 20-24 age-
group.
2.9          The curriculum has been reformed at both primary and secondary levels to be less
theoretical and more relevant to Ghana. Ghanaian languages and agriculture have been made
compulsory. All JSS offer one pre-vocational subject, to familiarize pupils with the use of hand
tools. SSS offer both a common core and some of five areas of focus for elective program
options, with most SSS offering general arts and science and vocational options, half of them
agriculture, and one-third of SSS technical options, to prepare children for both a wide range of
occupations and post-secondary education and training. New textbooks have been written at all
school levels. All primary school children now have a full set of core textbooks. Pupils again
have exercise books, pencils etc. Equipment has been provided for prevocational and science
teaching in JSS. A major effort in both pre-service and in-service teacher training, along with
new curricula, has reduced the proportions of untrained teachers to below 40% at primary, 30%
at JSS, and only 10% at SSS.
2.10         Costs have been contained in several ways. The proportion of boarding students
in secondary schools is being reduced through concentrating all newN investments in day schools.
Staffing was regulated by a freeze on hiring between 1987 and 1992, and a maximum staffing
limit is still in force. About 13,000 non-teaching staff were laid off at secondary and tertiary
levels. Many pupil teachers were also not rehired. Costs have been partially recovered in a
number of areas. Food subsidies have been eliminated at both secondary and tertiary levels.
School supplies are now sold at cost. There is partial cost recovery for textbooks in basic
education, and full cost recovery at SSS. At t,4- tertiary level, an innovative student loan scheme
was introduced in 1988 which though highij subsidized as in other countries provides for an
element of cost recovery.
2.1 1        Sector management, planning and budgeting have been improved by a gradual
merger of staff into a unified planning, programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation
division. This has been provided with international technical assistance and has implemented an
active work program, including the development of physical and financial norms. Line units
dealing with school and non-formal education have also built up their professional staffing.
School supervision has also been enhanced.



-3 -
2.12         The Government has increased dramatically Its budgetary allocation to the
education sector, from 1.4% of GDP in 1983 to 3.4% of GDP in 1990. Education's share of the
national recurrent budget has risen from 27% in 1984 to 37% from 1990. The allocation of the
budget has also improved substantially. The share of basic education has increased from 44%
in 1984 to 62% or more every year since 1989. Allocations to non-wage recurrent items rose
from less than 12% of the recurrent budget in 1986 to 22% by 1989.
2.13         Despite the impressive progress being made in formal education, two-thirds of
the population remain functionally illiterate. Of those who have been to school, 40% have lapsed
into illiteracy for lack of appropriate reading materials. The Government therefore launched a
mass literacy program in 1991, to reduce illiteracy by 5.9 million persons by the year 2000.
About 300,000 learners have enrolled already and program development is rapid.
2.14         Donors have provided considerable supportto the sector. The largest contributors
have been IDA and USAID. IDA has lent through the Health and Education Rehabilitation
Project (US$5 million, 1985); the first Education Sector Adjustment Credit (US$38.0 million,
1986); the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (US$50 million, 1990); the Community
Secondary School Construction Project (US$14.7 million, 1991); and the Literacy and Functional
Skills Project (US$17.4 millicn, 1992>. USAID is lending $35 million over 5 years starting 1990
to sJpport quality improvements in primary education. CIDA (Canada), ODA (United Kingdom)
and Japan have also given significant amounts of aid. Progress under the IDA credits has been
good, with rapid disbursements, and the regular meeting of conditions for tranche ree.ases of the.
adjustment operations with little delay.
B.    Teri= ducation
1 .    Institutions and Course Offerings
2.15         Institutions. The tertiary education subsector comprises the following educational
institutions, all in the public sector:
2.16         Universities - the University of Ghana (UG, established 1948), the University
of Science and Technology (UST, 1951), the University of Cape Coast (UCC, 1962), and the
new University of the North (1992);
2.17         Polytechnics - six ihstitutions, established as Technical Institutes between 1952
and 1963, and upgraded to polytechnics between 1963 and 1984. The Institute of Professional
Studies, which focuses on accountancy, is sometimes grouped with the polytechnics;
2.18         Diploma-aWarding college - seven institutions, training specialized teachers for
senior secondary schools and some post-secondary institutions;
2.19         Teacher training colleges - 38 in.tetutions, training teachers principally for
primary and junior secondary schools; and
2.20         Sector-specific institutions - especially for training agricultural and health
technical staff, but also institutions related to several other sectors.
2.21         There is also a public-sector Institute of Adult Education and some workers'
colleges, and there has been very limited experience with specialized distance learning programs.



-4 -
2.22          A small number of private institutions have recently been licensed and started
operating, offering computer and business studies. The Govermnent poses no special barriers to
private institutions, but is wary of promoting them actively for fear that they will both attract
good faculty away from the public sector and that they will quickly seek public subsidies which
it is unwilling and/or unable to provide. However, it is willing to discuss further possibilities of
attracting high-quality foreign private institutions to set up campuses or associate with Ghanaian
institutions.
2.23          Tle apex institution for the subsector is the Higher Education Division of the
Ministry of Education, headed by a Deputy Secretary (minister). Since 1991, this Division has
taken over responsibility for polytechnics and other tertiary institutions under MOE. Ghana used
to have a National Council of Higher Education, which reported to the President; the Government
felt that the universities' interests dominated the Council, and that higher education should relate
to MOE, and the Council was thus abolished in the early 1980's. Instead MOE set up in 1989
a National Implementation Committee on Tertiary Reform (NICTR) on which all the tertiary
institutions are represented. MOE has been trying to uF, the NICTR to create a new and
systematic structure for Government-university relationships.
2.24          This report and the proposed project focus on the three established universities,
the university college being formed by merging the diploma-awarding colleges, and the six
existing polytechnics. Other tertiary institutions are discussed as necessary.
2.25          Course Offerings.  The universities offer a range of three- to five-year
undergraduate degree programs through a total of 18 faculties (7 at UG, 7 at UST, and 4 at
UCC). There are a few masters- and doctoral-level programs, but postgraduate education is
relatively undeveloped; specialization by institution has begun - UG for arts and economics, UST
for science and technology, and UCC for eduation, but postgraduate enrollments are diffused into
a large number of individually small programs. The universities still house a variety of sub-
degree programs.
2.26          The diploma-awarding colleges currently offer a three-year diploma for
certificated teachers witi several years experience. A few direct entry students from secondary
schools are also accepted with A levels.
2.27          The polytechnics are still only partly tertiary institutions. A large proportion of
their courses is still at advanced craft level; these are also offered in 30 MOE technical intstitutes
and many other private and public colleges. The largest enrollments continue to be in the
advanced craft courses. Even the basic courses at technician (certificate) level -- for mechanical,
electrical and civil engineering technicians - are not offered in all the polytechnics. A minority
of courses is at the diploma level, equivalent to the British Higher National Diploma.
2.     Enrollments and Staffing
2.28          Enrollments in the three universities totaled 8,163 by 1977/78. They stagnated
thereafter until the start of a new phase of expansion in the late 1980s, risi.ag to 11,500 in
1991/92. In 1991/92 the University of Ghana and the University of Science and Technology each
enroll about 4,500 students and the University of Cape Coast 2,50. The proportions studying
science-based subjects, social sciences and humanities were 47%, 26% and 27% respectively in
1989/90. Academic selectivity varied widely: one in two science applicants was accepted at
universities, but only one in six social science applicants; the Universities of Ghana and of



Science and Technology were over-subscribed, but Cape Coast admitted almost all applicants.
Women made up about 20% of enrollments. The proportion of postgraduate students was 5%.
The intake of new students in 1991/92 was a record 4,500. The number of non-resident students
has risen recently to ev- 10% of the total, but many of these are squatting in the dormitories
illegally. Repetition and dropout rates at the universities are both below S%.
2.29         Enrollments at the seven diploma-awarding colleges totaled about 2,4C;, in
1991/92. The three colleges currently at Winneba had enrollments totaling 1,300, against a
residential capacity of about 2,100. Another 500 students at two colleges are due to move to
Winneba in the first phase of the: amalgamation.
2.30         Enrollments at the six polytechnics were about 10,000 in 1991/92. Only about
4,000 were full-time students and the other 6,000 part-time students, a large proportion of whom
were taking secondary level courses.
2.31         Academic staffing at the three universities taken together totaled 1,361 in
1989/90. The overall stude.nts-per-academic-staff ratio was 8:1 on a full-time student equivalent
basis. The academic qualifications of university staff are good, with 87% having advanced
degrees and only 13% with only a first degree. The universities have been weakened over many
years by the brain drain from Ghana as a consequence of deteriorating real pay and working
conditions for both teaching and research. Nevertheless, the staff are still relatively well
rewarded by Ghanaian standards. The universities' non-academic staff actually outnumbered the
students into the late 1980s; their numbers are still around 5,200 now despite the Government's
efforts at retrenchment.
2.32         Academic staffing at the seven diploma-awarding colleges taken together totaled
164 in 1989/90. The overall students-staff ratio was 15:1. Some 23% of staff have postgraduate
degrees, and nearly all the rest have a first degree. However, the areas of specialization of
existing staff do not match current needs in a large number of cases, especially for languages,
mathematics and science.
2.33         Academic staff at the six polytechnics totaled 393 in 1989/90. The overall
students-staff ratio was about 11:1 on a full-time student equivalent basis. The academic
qualifications of teaching staff in polytechnics are low by international standards: only 2% have
advanced degrees and only 21% have a first degree.
3.    Current Condition of Tertiary Education
2.34         The Government has tackled the tertiary education reforms and problems with
the academic community in a determined manner, mixed with rewards, in the last few years. It
has drawn up, albeit with considerable consultation, a vision and a program far removed from
traditional conceptions of the role of the university, and imposed movement towards this vision
with difficulty but also with some success. Alongside the reform steps there have been massive
infusions of budgetary resources, substantial salary increases, and a highly subsidized loan
scheme for students' personal expenses.
2.35         The university community in Ghana can well remember the golden days of the
1960's, when their prestige was high, resources and opportunities seemed unlimited, and the
University of Ghana was one. of the best in Africa. After a long deterioration, matters have
improved somewhat since 1985. But the universities still feel unappreciated, rarely cowsulted on



-6 -
national development problems, squeezed for resources (albeit relatively), and yet expected to
follow Government directives. Academic staff feel cut off from colleagues elsewhere, rarely able
to do original research or have it published, and often unable to update their own knowledge.
Students feel increasingly crowded in their hostels, and are worried that the educational reforms
will further dilute the quality of their tertiary education. Courses are still theoretical and often
out of date. Teaching is traditional. Textbooks are scarce and library journals far from current;
and space to read and study is insufficient. Much equipment is out of date, non-functioning or
absent. Most campus buildings need rehabilitation because past maintenance was inadequately
funded; building projects drag on for years or even decades. Budget requests are cut using
criteria only partly known to the universities, and releases of funds are irregular, making planning
difficult. Recently however there has been a gradual improvement in the funding situation; a
very generous salary settlement in November 1991; and the prospect of donor assistance on a
significant scale.
2.36          The diploma colleges suffer from the effects of budgetary scarcity on both
recurrent and capital account. The facilities at the proposed main campus at Winneba need
rehabilitation, equipment, and library restocking, and the staff need updating.
2.37          The polytechnics share some of the universities' problems, but have others of
their own. They are more willing to take part in the Government's reform program. Their staff
are underqualified, and stand to gain knowledge, higher status and ultimately higher pay through
the reforms. Many courses are not of tertiary level; many fields important for Ghana's
development are not offered widely or at all. Textbooks are very scarce. Equipment is absent
or often not functioning. Crucial industrial visits and attachments are limited by transportation
problems. Facilities are cramped. Libraries are almost non-existent. Study or reading space on
campus hardly exists.
4.     Costs and Financing
2.38          Almost the entire cost of tertiary education continues to be met from the central
government budget. Cost recovery for services provided by the institutions remains minimal.
Income generation by the institutions themselves is still in its infancy, although consultancy
income is growing. The student loan scheme provides substantial payments to students, but it
is not designed to provide income to the educational institutions.
2.39          Tertiary Education Budget.
2.40          Recurrent Budget. The Government has devoted a high and growing share of the
national recurrent budget to education, rising from 27% in 1984 to 37% each year from 1990.
Within the education budget, the universities are "subvented organizations", receiving block
grants which they have been free to allocate internally. Polytechnics, on the other hand, have
until recently fallen under the responsibility of the Technical and Vocational Division of MOE
and been included in that part of the regular MOE budget. As one indicator of the Government's
desire to make them truly tertiary level institutions, responsibility for the polytechnics was shifted
to the Higher Education Division in 1991, as were their budgets. For 1992, the recurrent
budgets are c12.9 billion for universities, cl. 1 billion for the diploma-awarding colleges, and cO.5
billion for the polytechnics. The personnel component is as high as 85% for the diploma-
awarding colleges and 75% for the polytechnics.



-7 -
2.41          The universities have received a substantial share of the recurrent budget for
education (10% in 1990, rising to 15% in 1992). In addition, the universities have used their
direct access to decision-makers to achieve actual expenditures well above budgeted levels in
recent years - almost 40% higher in 1990, for example. Nevertheless, the universities have
consistently regarded themselves as grossly underfunded.
2.42          Unit costs for university education in Ghana are relatively high by standards of
other developing countries at similar income levels, both in Africa and elsewhere. In 1989/90,
they ranged from ¢668,000 at UCC to (2901,000 at UG (equivalent to US$1,600 to US$2,700).
These figures exclude annual disbursements or subsidies on student loans (see below). The
proportion of these costs devoted to academic purposes varies from 24% to 40%. This allocation
of funds, and the high unit costs, were caused partly by the costs for municipal services incurred
by spacious self-contained campuses away from city centers; but this pattern of university
development is not unique to Ghana. Another major part of the reason for high unit costs has
been the historically generous student-to-academic-staff ratios. Even more important has been
the extraordinary number of non-academic staff employed at the universities, a factor which is
still significant. Information on current unit costs by faculty or subject is not readily available.
2.43          Unit costs at the diploma-awarding colleges are about 80%  of those at
universi.ies, reflecting somewhat lower faculty qualifications and possibly a degree of budgetary
aieglect.
2.44          Unit costs at the polytechnics, by contrast, have always been remarkably low.
This is largely because the academic staff, who in good part teach secondary level courses, have
been paid on the same scales as secondary school teachers. They also have somewhat less
generous student-to-academic-staff ratios, and a much less generous number of non-academic
staff. Their campuses are generally in towns and relatively cramped. Unit costs at the
polytechnics were budgeted at about c70,000 per full-time equivalent student in 1989/90.
2.45          Capital Budget. The public investment program (PIP) in education is a rolling
three-year program which is financed from the domestic capital budget and by external donors.
In p.ast years significant PIP resources were expended on importing equipment under barter
arrangements with the former German Democratic Republic. Decisions on the size and allocation
of the domestic capital budget are taken annually. In 1990 the budgeted sum for the universities
was ¢2.0 billion. The diploma-awarding colleges between them were allocated only ¢0.3 billion,
and the polytechnics only C0. 1 billion. The expenditure financed from the domestic capital
budget is overwhelmingly for civil works (about 80% of the total), particularly at the universities.
The universities are following master plans for their huge campuses laid out decades ago. The
civil works programs today are a mixture of rehabilitation of existing buildings and attempts to
complete other planned buildings, some of which were started many years ago; buildings at
various stages of construction abound on which work has been suspended for long periods to
concentrate resources; and there are no, or almost no, new starts. The composition of the
programs does not appear to reflect current priorities adequately. Also, the programs contain too
many projects at a time, relative to the funds that realistically are going to become available, as
a result of which few if any projects are completed and delays are ubiquitous. The Government's
procedures for budgeting and for releasing funds also make it difficult for the institutions to plan
construction rationally and implement it successfully.
2.46          Cost Recovery. Tuition for regular courses is free at all levels of education in
all Government institutions. Lodging in student hostels, which still house 90% of university



- 8 -
students, almost all students at diploma-awarding colleges and a high proportion of full-time
polytechnic students, also remains free, despite earlier Government commitments to IDA to
introduce lodging fees. Municipal services are provided free to students and at heavily subsidized
rates to academic and other staff living on campus. Rents for staff housing are very low as for
other public servants' housing, although they have risen recently with increased incomes, and
in the past hardly served to cover maintenance costs. Few textbooks are sold in the university
bookstores. Only student feeding is on a self-financing basis, since it was privatized in 1988.
2.47         Student Loan Scheme. Scholarships and Bursaries. The Government introduced
a loan scheme in 1988 to enable students to meet their costs for food, books and transportation.
Any student in a tertiary course in a public institution is eligible to borrow, and almost all eligible
students borrow the maximum amnount. The maximum loan available was c50,000 in the first
year and this has risen to c80,000 in 1991/92. The interest rate is a heavily subsidized 3% per
annum. Ghana's scheme appears to be unique in its mechanism for, and timing of, repayments.
The student pays nothing out of pocket while studying, nor does the graduate suffer any reduction
in take-home pay during his/her working life. Instead his/her social security contributions (5%
of salary, plus another 12 1/2% from the employer) during the first few years of employment are
treated automatically as repayments with interest until the loan is "paid off", with the result that
his/her pension entitlement at the end of working life is deferred by the length of time it has
taken to "pay off" the total loans. The Government capitalized the scheme initially with cl
billion and so far no further Government infusion has been necessary. The Social Security and
National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) administers the scheme on behalf of the Government. In
1990/91, 14,500 loans worth some c800 million were made to students, and by then SSNIT's
loans outstanding under the scheme had reached cl.6 billion.
2.48         There are also Government scholarships and bursaries. Scholarships in an amount
equal to the maximum student loan are given automatically to the highest-achieving (top 4.5%)
of students in all fields and to postgraduate students. Bursaries, at half the value of scholarships,
are given to all students in certain fields the Government deems "critical" for nationa.
development; and half bursaries for those in another set of fields it deems "essential". Post-
graduate students may take both a loan and a scholarship/bursary. In 1991 awards totaled C48
million.
5.    Supply of and Demand for Graduates
2.49         The Government's plans for the expansion of tertiary education are not yet based
on reasonable projections of overall demand for educated manpower, nor on current labor
market data. There is some data on demand from certain sectors, especially large employers in
the public sector including MOE's own demand for teachers. MOE expects future graduates to.
be more entrepreneurial and capable of productive self-employment. But the labor market picture
is seriously incomplete, and additional information is needed before actually expanding
enrollments as much as is planned currently.
2.50         Stock of High- and Intermediate-Level Manpower. The latest data on Ghana's
stock of educated manpower and its distribution come from the last population census in 1984.
In that year there were 47,000 professionals, up to half of whom had been produced by the
universities, with a few coming from diploma-awarding colleges. On the basis of ILO
classifications, they included 17,000 persons working as managers, 13,000 teachers, and 9,000
accountants/auditors, but only about 1,000 each engineers, agriculturists, scientists, doctors and
pharmacists. There were 287,000 sub-professionals, a proportion of whom are produced by the



9-
polytechnics, teacher training co:leges, and sectoral institutions such as those for health-related
occupations, but most of whom are untrained. They included 100,000 rrimary school teachers,
about 70,000 workers in public services, about 40,000 technicians (including nurses) in various
science-based occupations, and 34,000 bookkeepers/cashiers. Skilled workers numbered 709,000,
almost none of them trained anywhere.
2.51         Employment Experience of Tertiary Graduates. Data on unemployment are
scarce and also unreliable since few unemployed persons register at labor offices. At the end of
1991, MOE commissioned a tracer study to try to cover all graduates since 1988. The study
covered 1,295 employed (about one in six) and 257 unemployed graduates from the four cohorts
which left the universities during 1988-91. The unemployed tend to be somewhat younger, the
highest proportion of them being 25-29 years old. The subjects studied by both employed and
unemployed more or less mirror the overall pattern among past graduates and present students.
The employed were absorbed relatively quickly: about 71% on or within five months of
completing their national services. Among those left without immediate jobs, graduates in
administration and commerce took relatively longer to find jobs: 20% took more than a year.
Liberal arts graduates were the quickest to find jobs, and only 7% took over a year. A
remarkable 61 % of the employed were absorbed by central government and another 27% by the
rest of the public sector, and only 3% by large private businesses; but the survey could not reach
the self-employed and those in smaller businesses or living outside regional capitals. The
unemployed were also seeking public sector employment. About half had considered establishing
a business (import/export or farming, followed by consultancy), but felt that financial constraints
to doing so were a major obstacle. Some 15% had refused jobs because of low salaries or a
mismatch with their training. The unemployed were especially unwilling to consider jobs in
teaching, farming, or the armed forces. Some 36% of the unemployed had been so for over a
year.
2.52         Wage Movements. The Govermnent has made a major effort over the past few
years to widen wage differentials substantially in the public service, so that higher skills can be
much better rewarded, and the public sector made more competitive with the private sector.
Personal income tax rates have also been reduced greatly over the same period. Differentials
between the top and the bottom salaries in the civil service, which were about 5:1 pre-tax in
1988, had been increased to about 10:1 pre-tax and 9:1 post-tax by 1991. When account is taken
of non-salary benefits, these figures are both substantially higher. Private wage rates are still
rather higher at the top levels. University graduates entering employment ;eceived a salary of
about c275,000 per annum in 1990/91, but perhaps as much as three times that amount the next
year after large wage increases and the consolidation of allowances into salaries. Graduates of
tertiary education have been major beneficiaries of the Government's income and tax policies.
This could have stimulated the demand from students for tertiary education, by increasing the
private rate of return to such education, but may not have done much to increase employment
prospects for them in the private sector.
2.53         Projected Demand for Educated Manpower. Some projections have been made
available to MOE by the Ministries of Agriculture and of Health. The latter, which call for
substantial increases in personnel, are under review within the Ministry concerned and should be
treated as provisional. MOE has also projected the demand for teachers at all levels consistent
with its plans for the expansion of student flows and for staffing norms. These are relevant for
the universities (especially UCC), the diploma-awarding colleges, and teacher training colleges.
They project increases in the numbers of teachers needed at senior secondary schools and higher
levels. In addition, there is need to train or replace the (one-third of) senior secondary school



- 10-
teachers who are insufficiently qualified, and to replace teachers who will be lost through attrition
- departure, retirement, dismissal or death; the increases in demand for teachers will vary
somewhat by school subject. Overall, an annual output of some 800 teachers per annum from
diploma-awarding colleges will be needed during the 1990s, provided the projected flow of
university graduates is forthcoming.
2.54         Apart from considering the demand from formal sector employers, MOE is
determined and confident that the revision of academic programs that it is starting up will result
in producing graduates whose knowledge is much more attractive to employers, and who are
much more entrepreneurial and capable of productive self-employment, than in the past. In
addition, all students at polytechnics are to take courses in entrepreneurship.
6.    IDA Role and Activities
2.55         Past Lending for Tertiary Education. Under the Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 1744-GH, approved in December 1986), $1.5 million was disbursed to provide
simple equipment, books and journal subscriptions for the universities. In this phase of its
education sector program, the Government banned further recruitment of non-teaching staff in
universities; 3,000 were paid for retrenchment, but the net decline in their numbers by ely 1990
was only 800. It also froze the number of teaching posts from 1987 to 1990. Subsidies for
students' food were eliminated at the tertiary level. In December 1988 an ingenious subsidized
loan scheme was introduced to help tertiary-level students pay for food, books and transportation.
In connection with the release of the third tranche, the Government assured IDA that shortly it
would implement a scheme to recover the costs of lodging tertiary students; this step has not been
taken to date, but other related reforms were undertaken.
2.56         The Government was to study cost savings in tertiary institutions and produce a
plan of action for university development for second tranche release, and thereafter implement
those aspects of the plan agreed with IDA. In view of the extensive consultation process
undertaken, and the extension of the analysis to polytechnics, a university rationalization study
was ready - two years late - only in March 1989. A study on upgrading the polytechnics was
completed in June 1990. The Government approved a White Paper incorporating a medium-term
plan to reform tertiary education in August 1990. Its implementation will provide the policy and
institutional context for the proposed project.
2.57         Under the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH, approved
in May 1990), a further $3 million has been earmarked for the universities. It is being disbursed
in good part on an initial set of requirements for computers and on books and journal
subscriptions.
2.58         Lessons of Experience. The general experience under earlier projects with MOE
has been good, in terms of both reform implementation and project implementation/credit
disbursements, but these have been mostly for other areas of the education system and with other
parts of MOE. The major lessons from past tertiary reforms and the limited portion of past IDA
support directed to tertiary education have been two. First, it has proven difficult to reform the
universities, despite strong pressure from MOE to set up a new system and ground rules for thew
relationship. Second, MOE's staffing has needed reinforcement to implement the kind of
comprehensive reform program it is embarking on now. The project design reflects these
lessons, incorporating policy reforms negotiated between the Government and the institutions



- 11 -
(especially the universities) and a strengthening of MOE's implementation capacity, as well as
various measures to simplify implementation.
2.59         Strateg. IDA's strategy is to support the Government's own strategy in tertiary
education, which is appropriate to Ghana's economic and educational circumstances. At the same
time, IDA's role is to assist the Government to keep the program within the limits of budgetary
and other resources, and implementation capacity, and v courage consideration of labor market
demand for graduates. Thus it has helped the Government to prioritize actions for inclusion in
the first phase of the ilrogram; to identify total costs of the program, and explore the limits to
budgetary resources for it, in view of the claims of other sectors of the economy and other
subsectors of education; to promote diversification of the sources of financing; and in general
promote financial sustainability, and to undertake a first tracer study of graduates. It is also
assisting the Ministry of Education to both develop and supplement its implementation capacity.
IDA will keep its own financing lirited to a select group of items, to simplify project
implementation and speed credit disbursements. IDA will be prepared to consider assistance for
the second phase of the program in three to four years time.
7.    Other External Assistance
2.60         Ghana's tertiary education system has received individually small amounts of
assistance from bilateral donors, and recently a large credit from the Africa Development Fund.
Recent or forthcoming bilateral aid to tertiary education includes about US$1.5 million from
Japan for science laboratories at the University of Ghana. The tertiary institudons have also
managed to maintain and benefit from a number of bilateral links with insttutions and
departments abroad.
2.61         The African Development Fund (ADF) approved a FUA 15 million (US$20
million) credit in June 1991, which is to be signed shordy but may only become effective in early
1993, to help finance a FUA 17.4 million project for Ghana's universities and polytechnics. The
project provides about FUA 10 million for the universities, FUA 7 million for the polytechnics,
and FUA 0.4 million for project management. At each of the universities the ADF will finance
one large building project. At the polytechnics the credit will finance the rehabilitation and re-
equipping of 32 laboratories and workshops, and the construction of 18 new ones and 6 libraries.
For project management the ADF will finance start-up requirements and several consultants. Ite
proposed IDA-financed project will be closely coordinated with the ADF operation, which covers
the same institutions. MOE has arranged a su.table division of financing between the two donors.
HI. THE GOVERNMENT'S TERTIARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
-1.    Introduction
3.1          The Government proposes to establish an integrated tertiary education system
made up of all post-secondary pre-service training institutions. Major program components
include: restructuring and upgrading of institutions; review of course offerings and curricula,
leading to increased curriculum relevance; revival of research; rehabilitation of facilities and
upgrading of staff; expansion of the whole system to increase access and equity; improved
management; greater efficiency and control of unit costs; and diversification of finding sources.



-12 -
3.2          The Government has already made considerable progress in its reform program.
t has drawn up, approved, and is implementing a medium-term reform plan. The main actions
taken to date include: establishment and operation of a national implementation committee
(NICIR); establishment of target staffing and financial norms for universities; establishment of
planning units in universities; operation of a freeze on academic staff employment; some net
retrenchment of non-academic staff; expansion in nmbers of non-residential students; the
removal of feeding subsidies; and the establishment of an innovative student loan scheme.
3.3          The Government's longer-term objectives are set out in its White Paper on the
Reforms to the Tertiary Education System, issued in August 1990. A policy matrix showing key
actions under the program and their timing is at Annex 3-1. Experience so far has shown that
some reforms at Ghana's universities can be introduced by Government fiat alone. However,
faculty and student resistance has clearly limited the scope of Government action. The
Government is trying hard now to build support for the reforms. The work of staff of the tetary
institutions in preparing the proposed project has shown that they are eager to improve their
institutions and the education they can provide.
2.    lntegrntion
3.4          The Government is bringing all tertiary institutions, even those currendy
controlled by other ministries, into the program and effectively under the control of MOE, so that
it can create a unified system. This will permit planning for all institutions on the basis of
common criteria, setting priorities, restructuring where necessary, and financing according to
common principles. It will assist also in providing pathways through the system for students who
wish to pursue further studies but presently find it difficult to enter higher-level courses since
their existing qualifications are not easily recognized.
3.    Restructurn
3.5          Subsector-wide Institutions. MOE believes that, in this crucial phase of its
tertiary education reform program, it needs to maintain control of the process, even though it will
operate on the basis of consensus to the extent possible. It therefore intends to implement this
pbase of the program through the existing NICrR.
3.6          Ghanm's new constitution provdes that the President will appoint a National
Commission for Higher Education. The Government plans to prepare a number of scenaios by
the end of 1992, for Its successor to determine the best arrangements for the long-term
governance of tertiary education. It should be possible to establish the agreed arrangement well
before the end of 1995. International experience suggests that the Government should move over
the next few years to operating the tertiary education system on a more decentralized basis, with
greater autonomy (including both academic and financial autonomy) for the institutions within
overall Government policies and parameters.
3.7          MOE further plans to create new national boards to handle the accreditation of
academic programs, the admission of students into tertiary education, and the conduct of technical
and professional examinations. The admissions board wil be entirely new, while the
accreditation board will grow out of and replace part of the MOE, and the examinations board
will replace part of the Ghana Education Service.



- 13 -
3.8          The Government and institutions are starting a process of reviewing and revising
academic course offerings. This process wul be treated as conferring an initial at-reditation on
the programs. For the future, however, an organization will be needed to accredit new
institutions and courses, and to conduct a periodic re-accreditation of existing institutions and
courses. MOE expects a law establishing the Board of Accreditation to pass during 1992.
3.9          At present each institution handles its own admissions process as well as making
its own admission decisions. Students are thus forced to make multiple applications. MOE
expects a law establishing a Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board to be passed in 1993, and
for all admissions to be processed by the Board starting with those for the academic year
1994/95.
3.10         'The timetable for passing a law establishing a separate Board for Technical and
Professional kExaminations is also 1993. Tkis board will inherit the responsibility for the
examinations for polytechnic students from its predecessor unit.
3.11         Educational Institutions.  MOE has drafted or is preparing new laws for
polytechnics, the establishment of a University College to group the diploma-awarding colleges,
and (ater) the establishment of Regional Colleges of Applied Arts, Science and Technology
(RECAAST). These laws will establish or update the functions, powers, autonomy and
governing structures of the various institutions. The laws for the polytechnics and University
College have both been drafted and MOE expects them to be passed during 1992 (but see para.
3.13).
3.12         The universities will be restructured and upgraded over time in a number of
ways. Many of their existing sub-degree programs will be transferred to the polytechnics or
possibly taken over by the sector agencies for which they have been specifically mounted. A
number of new undergraduate programs will be started in fields of emerging importance for
development. Postgraduate programs will be started in more fields and expanded significantly.
3.13         The seven diploma-awarding colleges will be brought together on one campus and
integrated as a new institution, the University College at Winneba, established in September
1992. The capital cost involved will be offset by economies of scale in teaching common courses
like education and English and in administration, library and other facilities. The College will
also be upgraded so that some of its students can be awarded UCC degrees, but with a more
practical orientation, matching the level attained by teachers of other subjects who study at UCC
itself, and providing an avenue for serving teachers to earn degrees quickly while still working.
Preparatory work is well underway, and implementation of the first phase will begin in November
1992. Interviews for a principal of the University College have been held. Two more colleges
will move to Winneba, to join the three there already, in this phase. Moving the remaining two
colleges is presently foreseen for October 1994.
3.14         The polytechnics too will be upgraded and their course offerings restructured in
several ways in the first phase of the program. Nine advanced craft courses will be transferred
progressively to secondary level institutions, freeing up to 2,000 places for higher-level courses.
Technician courses in 14 areas will become the main focus of course offerings and will be spread
more widely through the polytechnics, and some new ones added. Existing diploma courses also
will be spread more widely, and a set of new ones introduced in areas closely relevant to Ghana's
natural resource endowment and industrial future (Annex 3-2). Training in entrepreneurship is



- 14-
to be offered to all students to reflect the changed balance of employment opportunities in the
economy.
3.1S         This phase of the Government's program, and therefore this report and the
proposed project, focus on the universities, proposed university college, and polytechnics.
4.    Rehabilitation and Ouality Improvement
Rebabilitation
3.16         Buildings. Virtually every building needs rehabilitation, as well as a large
number of Infrastructure systems such as water, power, and telephones.  The current
implementation of these rehabilitation projects leaves much to be desired. An inability and lack
of power of university management to plan, prioritize, and impose these priorities to finish a
small number of schemes; irregular funding; and possibly loose supervision allow schemes to
linger on uncomplkted for years. The campuses are littered with abandoned buildings and with
others which after years if not decades are still not completed. The current public investment
iprogram in education, which covers 1992-1994, has been revised with the Government's current
program priorities in mind. These are:
(a)    Projects expected to promote and expand academic facilities (classrooms,
laboratories, lecture theaters, workshops, libraries, studios), in view of the
impending expansion in enrollments;
0b)    Facilities for non-resident students; and
(c)   Improvement of campus sanitary facilities.
3.17         Laboratory and Workshop Equipment. The Government's program provides for
the re-equipment of a large number of laboratories and workshops at the universities and
polytechnics. At the universities alone 100 laboratories will need re-equipment, as well as 37
workshops. This is not complete re-equipping, as nearly all of these facilities have some
equipment in working order - but most require provision of at least 50% of needed equipment.
Some new laboratories and workshops will need equipping from scratch. The equipping and re-
equipping will be done to the extent possible, at least at the polytechnics, on the basis of standard
lists of equipment required to teach the courses using that laboratory or workshop. As the focus
is on teaching, nearly alI of which is at undergraduate level or below, the individual items of
equipment are mostly of modest cost.
3.18         Several of the universities and polytechnics have workshops in which they carry
out some equipment maintenance. There are also a few arrangements with suppliers or their
agents to service more complex items. These arrangements have not proved ver., satisfactory,
however, as evidenced by the high percentage of non-functioning equipment. To try to ensure
that a high proportion of the new equipment expected to arrive under the program is kept
functioning, the Government and the institutions have negotiated increased budgets for
maintenance, and are preparing proposals for improved equipment maintenance in future which
were presented in preliminary form at negotiations.



- 15 -
Ouality Improvement
3.19         Several components of the Government's program address the need to improve
the quality of tertiary education. Among these are proposals for new and upgraded courses with
content more relevant to Ghana's development problems, staff development, increased availability
of textbooks and library materials, and the devotion of a higher proportion of available financial
resources to academic purposes. The Government also plans to stimulate research activities in
ways which will also improve their quality.
3.20         Courses. The universities and other tertiary institutions are adapting their course
offerings to the arrival of the new senior secondary school graduates in October 1994. These
students will have studied significantly different material from the present 'A"-level graduates.
To accommodate them, most undergraduate degree courses are expected to be lengthened by a
year, to a standard four years for most arts and social science courses.
3.21         Including but going beyond this, the Government and some of the tertiary
institutions have embarked on a large-scale exercise to update and upgrade their course offerings
and increase their relevance to Ghana's development problems, including the requirements of
modern manufacturing and service industries. The Government has been trying to complete the
process at the University College before the beginning of the 1992/93 academic year, while the
universities and polytechnics are expected to take another year.
3.22         Finally, the Government's plans to increase the proportion of university students
who are postgraduates to 10% by 1995 will require decisions on specialization by institution, to
achieve a critical mass in each discipline at the institution(s) selected, and in some cases on course
offerings and curricula. This is linked also to the revival of research (see below).
3.23         Staff Development. The Government's program envisages large-scale staff
development activities for all institutions in the subsector. The strategy and types of activities
depend on the type of institution. For universities, the emphasis will be on increasing the
pedagogical effectiveness of staff. For the University College, the broad aim is to increase the
proportion of postgraduate degree holders over time. For the polytechnics, the broad aim and
main focus of staff development will be to bring all staff capable of such studies to first degree
level over time, mostiy at Ghanaian universities but a certain number abroad mostiy in new
fields, so that on return they can teach diploma courses. Staff development activities will also
cover specialized staff including administrators.
3.24         Instructionai Materials. The availability of textbooks, and of core journals and
reference books in the library, have a considerable influence on the quality of students' learning
experiences. The Government is counting on making enough textbooks available to all students
right from the start of the program to end the current textbook famine and give an early boost
to quality. Since students are not in a financial position to buy more than a very small number
of books each year, the principle will be to stock the library with multiple cepies of key
textbooks and lend them short-term to large numbers of students; photocopying facilities will also
be expanded. Bookstore seedstocks in small numbers will also be provided for those university
students who do wish to buy. The Government also plans to continue and roughly double
existing subscriptions at universities to the core journals in each field, and to establish a limited
number of subscriptions to core journais at the University College and the polytechnics.



- 16 -
3.25         Resource Allocation. To strengthen academic standards, the Government has
developed norms for the allocation of universities' budgets among alternative uses. These will
require a movement over time to spending as much as 70% of the budget on teaching, libraries
and research. The proportions of total expenditures allocated for municipal services, staff and
student welfare, and administration would have to be reduced correspondingly. The Government
plans to have institutions' budget allocations fully in line with these norms starting in 1995/96,
with transitional levels introduced starting in 1993/94. IDA plans to monitor two areas of
institutions' expenditures as key performance indicators:
(a)   an increase in the proportion of total recurrent expenditures devoted to library
acquisitions until it reaches 5% in 1995; and
(b)   an increase in the proportion of total recurrent expenditures devoted to
maintenance expenditures until it reaches 5% in 1995,
and these provisions lave been incorporated in the Government's Letter of Higher Education
Development Policy and memoranda of understanding with individual universities, which have
been provided to IDA as the basis for support through the proposed project (Jpra. 3.57).
3.26         Research. Only the universities presently conduct research, partly through a
small number of specialized units and partly through teaching departments. The volume of
research, although growing, is still small due to lack of facilities, funds, and the opportunity to
publish and to interact with other scholars in Ghana or abroad. The Government's program will
begin with the creation of a research fund (1993); establishment of a system to support
publication and dissemination of research findings (1993); the establishment of pilot centers of
specialization, to prevent dilution of effort and create critical masses of scholars and facilities
(1994); staff training in research techniques (1994); and a focus on applied research relevant to
Ghana's problems.
5.    Expansion
3.27         The Government wishes to expand the tertiary education system rapidly for three
major reasons:
(a)    To meet the increased requirements of educated manpower to lead the economy
to sustained and if possible accelerated growth;
(b)    To expand access to tertiary education to include a wider social range of capable
students; and
(c)    To respond to the large increase in the social demand for tertiary education
expected to emerge when the much larger cohorts now in the new senior
secondary schools complete their studies there.
3.28         The Ministry of Education has made projections of tertiary enrollments to the
academic year 2000/01 (Annex 3-3). These projections reflect reasonable assumptions about the
number of graduates of secondary education who need to go into teaching, to staff the expansion
of other levels of the education system, and about the prospects for expansion of full-time places
at the polytechnics for courses with good employment potential. Given the state of information
about the labor market, the hardest subsector for which to plan is the universities; but this is also



- 17 -
the subsector with both the strongest social demand for places and the highest unit costs in the
system. Given the results of a 1991/92 tracer study, the projections assume the existence of
sufficient demand from employers for a certain increase in the numbers of university graduates,
and that the ones not so employed will find gainfil self-employment. The demand side may be
compared with the flows of potential tertiary candidates arising from the expansion of lower
levels of the system. The phasing out of the current "A"-4evel exmination only in mid-1996,
well aiter the start of the new senior secondary school leaving examination at the end of 1993,
will give rise to four years of intake based on two streams of secondary graduates (1994/95-
1997/98). MOE's projections show that in the mid-1990s just under 10% of senior secondary
school graduates will be able to enter universities, about 5% to enter polytechnics and the
University College taken together, and 15% to enter other tertiary institutions (mostly teacher
training colleges), for a total of about 30%. The proportion of the 20-24 year age group enrolled
in tertiary education is expected to rise from slightly under 1% now to about 29% by the year
2000.
Table I
Universities
Intake       Universitiem  College   lzhnic
i992/93      4,500         14,500     2,500     10,500
1993/94      4,500         15,500     2,800     11,000
1994/95      5,500         17,250     2,800     11,500
1995/96      5,500         18,500     2,800     12,000
1996/97      5,500         19,500     2,800     13,000
1997/98      5,500        20,000      2,800     14,000
3.29      University intakes which have expanded rapidly in the last 2-3 years have strained
the existing facilities. They will therefore remain at the 4,500 level reached in 1991/92 for the
next two years, then rise to provide some extra opportunities - but only to 5,500 - in each year
of the double intake (1994/95 to 1997/98). Even so, the momentum of past increases in intakes
will cause total university enrollments to rise considerably, from 13,000 now to a little over
17,000 in 1994/95 and to 20,000 in 1997/98. The proportion of postgraduate students is
expected to reach 10% by 1994/95 and remain there through the year 2000. The numbers in
Table I have been incorporated in the Government's Letter of Higher Education Development
Policy.
3.30      To enable these numbers to be accommodated, the Govermnent is trying to increase
the number and proportion of non-residential students at the universities. Already it has raised
the numbers from virtually none in 1989 to over 2,500 in 1991/92. It expects that another 1,000
non-residential students could be admitted through 1995. To this end, certain special facilites
for non-residents will be provided on campus such as lockers. The Government plans to carry
out a socio-economic study on non-resident students in 1993, to evolve a policy and to agree with
all the institutions in 1993 on targets for numbers of officially non-resident students, and for
equitable space and sanitation and standards in student hostels. Finally, it hopes that a first off-
campus (and non-Government) student housing program will be completed in 1994.



- 18 -
3.31       University College intakes are expected to increase only slightly to about 1,000
(taking the seven constituent colleges together), and to remain at this level throughout the period.
Enrollments will stabilize at some 2,800 students.
3.32       Polytechnic intakes are expected to be such as to gradually increase the number of
full-time students, while the number of part-time students stays constant at its present 6,000.
Enrollments of full-time students will increase from 4,000 now to about 5,500 in 1994/95 and
about 8,000 in the year 1997/98. Not more than 500 students will be enrolled in Higher National
Diploma courses in 1995/96, in line with absorptive capacity. Polytechnics already have a high
proportion of non-resident students, especially among part-time students.
3.33       Intakes into other tertiary institutions are dominated by those to teacher training
colleges, training graduates for primary and junior secondary schools. Enrollr onts at these
schools are expanding rapidly. The Government is also training or replacing the 30% of existing
teachers who are untrained to improve the quality of instruction. The demand for more trained
teachers will only be offset in part by expected increases in class sizes. Sectoral institutions
(primarily agriculture and health) are not expected to expand intakes significantly in this period.
Total intakes at other tertiary institutions will be about 10,000 per annum, and will raise total
enrollments at these institutions from 18,500 now to 26,500 in 1994/95 and to 30,000 in 1997/98.
3.34       In view of the crucial importance of enrollment numbers for both the quality of the
education provided and its budgetary cost, the Government has agreed, and cause the institutions
to ensure, that intakes and enrollments of the tertiary institutions shown in Table 1 will not
exceed the numbers shown in that table for each of the years 1992/93 to 1997/98. These limits
are justified in the short term to preserve quality in the face of strong social demand for tertiary
education, especially in the years of double-intake. The Government will carry out a manpower
survey to improve information on labor market trends and prospects for tertiary graduates. In
addition, the Government is undertaking a study on the potential for distance learning, with a
view to setting up pilot programs in 1993. The Government should also encourage a greater role
for the private sector, to relieve its own burden and provide greater choice for students. The
proposed project will include a study on private provision of tertiary education.
3.35      The Government is trying to move the enrollment balance at universities (taken
together) from the present 42% in science-based subjects to 60%. The constraint in the short
term is the number of eligible science entrants, although this can possibly be alleviated by
remedial science courses which have recently been piloted successfully at one university.
3.36       The Government is also trying to increase the female share of enrollments, which
is currently about 20% in the universities. It plans to require the universities to reach a 25%
share in 1992/93 and a 30% share in 1994/95. To facilitate the change, the universities are
progressively increasing the proportion of hostel space available to female students. The
proposed project include a study under the project on the reasons for low female participation and
recommendations on measures to increase it.
6. ManaMent
3.37      The PNDC Deputy Secretary for Higher Education and her Acting Chief Director
have been the only two central government persons continuously involved in the conception and
management of the reform program for five years. This continuity may be broken with the
politcal transition at the end of 1992.



- 19 -
3.38      At the institutional level, two of the three universities have new Vice-Chancellors
as of early 1992, and the third Vice-Chancellor will be new as of November 1992. New
directors of the polytechnics were selected ana others reappointed recently, to ensure that they
will be capable of leading those institutions with their enhanced future roles. These new chief
executives will need induction training and - depending on their previous experience - some
familiarization with the reform program. There could be some loss of momentum at the
institutional level for a few months in late 1992. The universities have new planning units to
develop the management information systems needed for institutional and sectoral management;
new appointees are being recruited at polytechnics to play the same role. They will also play an
important role in the proposed move to centralized timetabling at each institution, to improve the
utilization of existing facilities and staff. All the managerial and senior administrative personnel
of the institutions will need training in the new ways.
7.   ;fficiency. Costs and Financing
Unit Costs
3.39      The most important policy measure that the Government plans to introduce to
increase efficiency is the use of student-staff norms which are rather less generous than the ratios
that have prevailed hitherto. MOE has drawn up a comprehensive set of such norms for both
acaiemic and non-academic staff of universities (Annex 3-4). They govern in particular the
numbers of students per academic staff, and are differentiated by faculty, namely 8 for human
and veterinary medicine, 12 for other science-based subjects, 15 for education, and 18 for the
humanities, yielding an intended average of about 15. Other norms define the staffing structure
and staffing levels of both academic and other departments, and the numbers of non-academic
staff. Given the expected increases in student numbers over the next few years, the effect as the
norms are introduced progressively will be to keep academic staff numbers in the universities
close to their present levels through 1995. Non-academic staff numbers will need to be a little
over 5,000 by 1995. Per-student recurrent costs of university education are projected to increase
from an estimated c554,000 (equivalent to about US$2,500) in 1990 to about c724,000 (in 1991
prices) in the period 1995-2000, even while applying MOE's norms.
3.40      Staffing norms do not yet exist for the University College and the polytechnics. The
Government will develop such norms - at least for the polytechnics - in time for the start of
the tighter norm-based budgeting process described below, i.e. some time in 1993. However,
the projections assume that the overall student-to-academic staff ratio at the polytechnics will
increase from about 11 now to 18 from 1997.
3.41      The Government and the institutions have agreed that staff numbers at the
universities and polytechnics will be based on the agreed student-staff norms, starting with the
1995/96 academic year. The Government has agreed, and will cause the universities to ensure,
that the universities will reach Government norms for student-to-academic-staff rations at latest
in 1995/96. Junior staff numbers (technical plus administrative) will be at or below 30% of
student enrollments at latest in 1995/96. Annual intermediate targets have been incorporated in
a memorandum of understanding with the universities.
3.42      To keep down unit costs, while supporting the higher throughput of studems in the
future, there will have to be more intensive utilization of time, existing facilities, and staff, as
well as expansion. The Government has lengthened the academic year nominally, from 24 weeks
(excluding examinations) to 32 weeks (including them) in the course of moving to a semester



- 20 -
system over the last few years, with the last institution changing to the semester system as of
1992/93.
3.43      Information on the present intensity of utilization of facilities is partial. At the
universities, there is a tendency to confine classroom use to the mornings and laboratories to the
afternoons. Many teaching spaces belong to particular departments, which may limit flexibility
in their use. Library hours could be extended somewhat and classrooms could be held open In
the evenings, to alleviate the severe shortage of study space. The polytechnics could extend their
hours in some cases. The Government is considering such options. It has negotiated with the
universities that weekly hours of opening or use will be extended to 90 hours for the library and
75 hours for classrooms, laboratories and workshops, starting in the academic year 1992/93; and
that centralized timetabling of all academic spaces will start in the academic year 1993/94. These
provisions have been incorporated in the Government's Letter of Higher Education Development
Policy.
Fan.
3.44      Government Budget. The Government and IDA review the recurrent budget and
public expenditure program for education each year under ongoing operations. In addition, MOE
has projected education costs, including those fer tertiary education, through the year 2000 (Table
2 and Annex 3-5 - to be revised). The projections are based on the student flows and transition
rates discussed above, the best available information and assumptions on salaries and other costs,
and the progressive applicaton of MOE's staffing and expenditure norms.
3.45         B         Budget. The approved recurrent budget subventions to universities for
1992 total c12.9 billion. The large increase from 1991 levels is needed to accommodate the large
salary increase for university staff agreed at the end of 1991.
3.46      The projections through the year 2000/01 show that per-student recurrent cost in
universities will be c724,000 in 1991 prices (equivalent to US$1,930) by 1995/96, when the
Goverment's norms are intended to apply fully. The equivalent figure for polytechnics will be
c210,000 (US$560). The reasons for the continuing disparity will be, as in the past, mainly the
lower qualifications of faculty and the lower levels of courses they teach. The numbers for
univesities will still be relatively high by international standards, but it is not clear that anything
can reasonably be done to reduce them further. The unit costs for other institutions and levels
of education are and will remain much more reasonable.



-21 -
Table 2
Recuffent Budget for Education
iz               1226
Total (1991 c bn)           82                111
% of Recurrent Budget       37                 41
Shae (96)
Primary                     44                 40
JiS                         20                 21
SSS                         18                 14
Tertiary                    17                 18
Non-Formal                   1                  6
Note: Excluding Government contributions for student loans.
3.47       The projections show further that, assuming economic growth continues at 5% per
annum in real terms in Ghana in the 1990s as under the Government's program so far, and with
overall real budget growth at 3% per annum, the share of education in the Government's
recurrent budget will need to increase from 37% in 1991 to a peak of 41% in 1996.
3.48       To protect the lower levels of the education system, which have great importance
in its sector strategy, the Government has agreed that the share of tertiary education in the total
recurrent budget and actual expenditures for education will not exceed 18.3% through 1996. For
this purpose, tertiary education will inchide universities, the University College, the polytechnics,
MOE "RECAAST" institutions, distance education, and any Government compensation to SSNIT
for interest foregone on student loans should this be required. This provision on the share of
tertiary education has been incorporated in the Government's Letter of Higher Education
Development Policy.
3.49       Public Investment Program.  The Government's three-year rolling public
investment program (PIP) now covers 1992-94. MOE and the institutions have reviewed the
program together and with IDA at the end of 1991 and it has been harnessed more closely to the
objectives of the sector reform program (Annex 3-7). In the final version of the 1992 domestic
capital budget, however, the share of tertiary education is a relatively high 44%. About one-fifth
of this is for the new University of the North, which is intended to emphasize education relating
to savannah zone agriculure, produce middle le-vel medical manpower, and studies of the
development and sociological problems of this most backward area of Ghana. It will also
contribute to regional equity objectives, and has powerful political sponsorship, but should not
be allowed to distort overall resource allocation.
3.50       The Government has agreed to review and agree its public expenditure programs
for tertiary education with IDA annually through 1996. Actual expenditures each year will be
satisfactory to IDA (thus maintaining the type of conditionality agreed under previous IDA-
financed education operations, but with its scope limited to tertiary education). This will be
implemented dtrough the Govenment's annual overall public expenditure reviews with IDA, as
long as those continue, and separately thereafter. It has also been agreed that budgets and actual



- 22 -
expenditures each year will not diverge by more than 10% (except for changes resulting from
unanticipated salary increases). Capital expenditures on the University of the North from
Government resources will not excesd US$1.5 million equivalent in any one year, and a total of
US$4 million equivalent, in the period 1993-96. This provision has been incorporated in the
Government's Letter of Higher Education Development Policy.
3.51        Cost qRecoery. The prospective expansion of enrollments and the budgetary
implications have induced MOE to plan to increase cost recovery for tertiary education. Currently
only low application fees and full costs for student feeding services are charged, or under 10%
of total direct costs, and the vast proportion of these payments is financed by subsidized loans.
Given the higher percentages of costs recovered at primary and secondary levels (in the ranges
5-10% and 15-50% respectively), the high costs of a rapidly expanding tertiary sector, and the
private returns to tertiary education, Ghana should move faster on increasing the percentage of
cost recovery in tertiary education. However, new charges should be preceded by a carefully-
planned campaign of public education as to the general nec, ssity of charging, and the particular
justification of the specific charges proposed. In the near term, the main stress will be placed
on hostel fees, being a payment for a non-academic item with potential for substantial yield. The
level of long-term cost recovery should take account of the findings of a study which the
Goverment will carry out under the project, on the socioeconomic composition of the student
body including the ability of students and their families to pay for tertiary education.
3.52        Given the political transition taking place in Ghana at the end of 1992 and indeed
already underway, the sensitivity of charges to students, and the fact that improvements in
conditions in tertiary education will not take place in time, there is no prospect of additional cost
recovery being agreed for 1992/93.
3.53        To increase the financial sustainability of its plans for tertiary education, the
Government has agreed to, and cause the institutions to, implement cost-recovery mechanisms:
(a)   Introduce student hostel fees, starting with the academic year 1993/94, to cover
the full cost, including the annualized capital cost; and
(b)   Ensure that through a range of application, registration, and other charges, 5% of
tertiary academic recurrent costs will be borne by students by the academic year
1995/96.
Tlese provisions bave been incorporated in the Government's Letter of Higher Education
Development Policy. The Government also plans to set application fees for universities at
c4,000, and for other tertiary institutions at c2,000, for the academic year 1993/94, and to
increase them annually thereafter in line with inflation.
3.54        Income Generation. The Government and the institutions plan an expansion of
these activities which are still little developed. The Government plans a study in 1993 under the
proposed project which will evaluate the several schemes already put forward by the institutions,
some of which reportedly have been carefully drawn up. These are largely additional to the
development of consultancy business, for which there is considerable scope in principle, both
within Ghana and abroad. After the study the Government plans to set targets for income
generation, in light of the seed capital which can reasonably be expected to be forthcoming for



- 23 -
these ventures. Indications are that income generation can only be expected to amount to a few
percentage points of recurrent costs at the institutions for many years to come.
3.55        Student Loan Scheme. SSNIT has projected the finances of the student loan
scheme through the year 2000/01 using MOE's assumptions about student flows. SSNIT's
intermediate scenario prepared in July 1992 is summarized at Annex 3-6. Annual disbursements
to students are projected to rise from cO.9 billion in 1990/91 to c12.2 billion in the year 2000/01.
To sustain the present loan terms without adversely affecting SSNIT's own finances, it is
projected that the Government will need to provide SSNIT with a further cO.4-0.5 billion per
annum from 1998 to the year 2000. The Government has undertaken in its Letter of Higher
Education Development Policy to provide further resources to SSN1T in the period 1996 to 1998
when and if required.
3.56        The Government and SSNIT have thus ensured the financial sustainability of the
scheme on the present terms. As part of the action plan for the future, to enable students to pay
increased charges and to encourage non-residentiality, the Government in its Letter has also
indicated its intention to extend the loan scheme to mitigate some of the additional costs to
students. It is expected to increase the maximum amounts of student loans as follows:
(a)   For non-resident students, to cover up to 100% of additional imputed rent costs
they incur, starting in the academic year 1992/93 (SSNIT's projections provide
c13,500);
(b)   For resident students, to cover up to 50% of student hostel fees, starting in the
academic year 1993/94 (SSNIT's projections provide c13,500); and
(c)   For all students, to cover up to 100% of further increases in charges, starting in
the academic year 1993/94 (SSNIT's projections provide c5,000).
The Government has agreed to implement, and to cause SSNIT to implement, the plan.
8.    Reforms and Performance Monitoring
3.57        The proposed project is an investment project. Nevertheless, because of the
importance of the subsectoral reforms which the Government is undertaking, both in themselves
and for the success of the project, the Government has provided IDA with a Letter of Higher
Education Development Policy (Annex 3-0). The letter covers the intentions of both the
Government and the educational institutions. Since the universities are autonomous institutions,
each of them has entered into an individual memorandum of understanding, as well as a Joint
memorandum, with the Government, together setting out its intended actions in the policy areas
discussed in Part II! of this report. When it has been formally established, the University College
will enter into a sir.!lar memorandum of understanding with the Government satisfactoty to IDA,
as a condition of disbursement on project items for the College. IDA is relying on the Letter of
Higher Education Development Policy in making the proposed credit. The Government and IDA
will monitor performance under the program with special focus on a small set of crucial policy
and institutional actions to be undertaken by the Government and by the institutions during the
project period through 1996. These actions have been spelled out in individual sections of this
part of this report; the expected levels and phasing are set out in Annex 5-3. 'he indicators to
be monitored are lIsted for convenience in paragraph 5.15. Performance in these areas will also
be the major basis for a joint mid-term review of the project.



-24-
IV. THE R
1.    Proiect History
4.1         The Government first requested IDA assistance for a project fully devoted to
tertiary education in 1989. It presented Its first complete proposals to an identification mission
in July 1991. Appraisal took place in March 1992. During this period the Government also
presented proposals to finance other tertiary education expenditures to the African Development
Fund (ADF), which approved a FUA 15 million credit in June 1991 that has recently been
signed. The proposed project will be coordinated with the ADF-financed project wherever
necessary.
2.    Project Objectives
4.2         The proposed project ai'ns to provide support to the first phase of the
Government's tertiary education program. This phase will cover the years 1993-1996. The
project and its associated conditionality will support all the major objectives of the program:
restructuring; upgrading; rehabilitation; quality improvement; expansion; improved management;
increased efficiency; and diversification of financing. Within this broad canvas, the stress in the
first phase will be on (a) rehabilitation and quality improvement in teaching and learning; (b)
improved management; (c) a system combining autonomy with accountability for the universities;
and (given the uncertainty about manpower demand) (d) a gradual expansion of enrollments.
3.    Summary Project Composition
4.3         The proposed project has two components:
(a)   A central component for the Ministry of Education and the proposed new boards
for accreditation, admissions and examinations, consisting of:  (i) office
equipment, computers, and vehicles; (i) staff development; (iii) technical
assistance; (iv) studies; and (v) assistanceinprojectmanagement (US$5.1 million);
and
(b)   An institutional component for each of the three established universities, the
proposed University College and the six existing polytechnics, consisting of: (i)
civil works, (ii) laboratory and workshop equipment and equipment maintenance,
(iii) textbooks, library journals and reference books, Civ) computers, (v) vehicles,
(vi) staff development, (vii) research finding (at the universities), and (viii)
management and technical assistance (US$46.3 million).
4.    Project Description
(a) Central Component
(i)   Cffice Equipment. Computers and Vehicles.
4.4         The project provides for most of the project-related requirements of the
Coordinating Unit for Managing External Funding (CU) to be established by MOE (para. 5.19),
the balance being financed by ADF. The IDA-financed items are mostly being purchased under
a Project Preparation Facility advance for the proposed project. The project will also finance the
start-up needs of the proposed new boards for accreditation, admissions and examinations.



-25 -
a Project Preparation Facility advance for the proposed project. The project will also finance the
start-up needs of the proposed new boards for accreditation, admissions and examinations.
(ii)   Staff Development.
4.5         Under the project, top officers of MOE Higher Education Division, the new
boards, and CU will receive management and project-related training, and participate in
atachments, seminars and workshops.
(iii)    Technical Assistance.
4.6         The project will finance consultant assistance: (i) to MOE in management
information systems, and for the studies under the project (next section); and (ii) to the new
boards as required for their establishment and early operation. Terms of reference for the TA
for MIS and for the boards were reviewed at negotiations and are set out in Annex 4-1.
(iv)  Studies.
4.7         The project will finance studies in the following areas: (i) a manpower survey; (ii)
the socioeconomic composition of the student body (and the ability of students and their families
to pay for tertiary education); (iii) private provision of tertiary education; (iv) income generation
by universities; and (v) female participation in tertiary education. Outline terms of reference
were reviewed at negotiations and are set out in Annex 4-1. The studies will be completed by
the end of 1994.
(v)   Assistance in Project Management.
4.8         Activities in areas needed for project start-up are being financed in part by an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility (para. 5.2). The project will also finance the
services of a number of local consultants serving in and required by the CU. Finally, the project
wil finance technical assistance and other expenses of preparing the second phase of the
Govermnent's tertiary education reform program.
(b)   Institutional Component
4.9         Ihe three universities and six polytechnics included in the project are existing
institutions. The University College will be established by a merger of the existing diploma
awarding colleges. Candidates for the position of principal have been interviewed; and a
memorandum of understanding between the Government and the College has been drafted. As
the project benefits depend on the merger actually taking place in practice, the Government has
agreed that expenditures for the University College will only be financed from the proposed credit
once It has been formally established; the principal has been appointed; and the Government and
the University College have signed a memorandum of understanding satisfactory to IDA,
reflecting the latter's obligations under the program.
(i)    Civil Works.
4.10        At the universities, the project will provide for the construction and rehabilitation
of libraries, lecture theaters, laboratories, workshops, campus facilities for non-resident students,
ad sanitary facilities. At the University College, the project will provide for completion of the



- 26 -
workshops, classrooms, campus facilities for non-resident students, and sanitary facilities.
Understandings have been reached on the individual works to be included (Annex 4-2).
(ii) Laboratory and Workshop Eguipment and Equipment Maintenance.
4.11        At the universities, the project will finance the re-equipping of a wide range of
laboratories and workshops. At the University College, the project will provide equipment for
science and language laboratories. At the polytechnics, the project will finance the re-equipping
of the laboratories and workshops for all courses, except for automotive engineering which ADF
will assist. Understandings have been reached on the individual laboratories and workshops to
be included (Annex 4-3).
4.12        Equipment purchases will be based on a comparison of standard lists by subject,
at least in the polytechnics, with existing stocks of equipment which is either in working condition
or is reparable. A repair exercise will also be carried out in the polytechnics early in the project;
if successful, it could be extended to the universities.
4.13        MOE and the institutions brought to negotiations their proposals to ensure better
equipment maintenance, which need some further work to become sufficiently operational. The
project will include the establishment of suitable arrangements and the provision of equipment
and training for equipment maintenance.
(iii) Core Textbooks. Library Journals and Reference Books.
4.14        The aim under the project is to provide students in all subjects at each university
and polytechnic, and those in certain priority fields at the University College, with sufficient
access to the most important learning resources they require. Thus the project will provide for
the library multiple copies of the three most important textbooks for each course: one copy for
5 students of the key textbook and one copy for 15 students of each of the other two. These
books are expected to be kept in special areas of the institutions' libraries for short-term
borrowing. The project will also provide university bookstores with one copy for each 10
students of the key textbook as a seedstock, to cater on a sustainable basis to those students who
wish and can afford to purchase books. Understandings have been reached on these guidelines.
The library and bookstore stocks taken together are expected to end the current textbook famine
and make possible a substantial improvement in both teaching and learning. The institutions are
expected to keep these recommended textbooks for their courses for five years.
4.15        Students and academic staff, especially in the universities, also need to keep up
with major developments in their field worldwide through reading key journals. The project will
extend the support being provided through 1992 under several previous IDA credits, by providing
subscriptions for the period 1993-95 to the current 200 core journals per university, a further 200
jonrnals per university, and about 50 journals per polytechnic. As t'e institutions' library
acquisition expenditures rise, they will take over financing these journal subscriptions starting in
1996.
4.16        Finally, each university's library will be provided with a collection of the key
reference books for each subject. The project provisien of textbooks, library journals and
reference books is summarized in Annex 4-4.



- 27 -
(iv)  Computers.
4.17        The universities have hitherto possessed only a single roomful of personal
computers each. The polytechnics have had none at all. The new planning units at universities
started operations with one PC each, and the polytechnics each received one machine, in
September 1992. An initial large order of PCs for the teaching of basic computer science at each
university has been financed recently from EdSAC II. The project will finance the next phase
of computer requirements for the universities, for the administration, library, teaching
departments especially science-based, and a computer pool. At the polytechnics, it will finance
computers for the administration, business studies courses and computer maintenance/repair
courses. Understandings have been reached on guidelines for identifying the computers to be
acquired, and the project provision is set out in Annex 4-5.
(v)   Vehicles.
4.18        At the universities and University College, the project will finance vehicles for the
administration and the planning units (pick-ups) and for students' field visits (medium and large
buses). At the polytechnics, the same types of vehicles will serve for the administration and for
students' industrial visits. The project provision is set out in Annex 4-6.
(vi)  Staff Development.
4.19        The need for a major program of staff development derives from several factors:
the brain drain of the past which has not yet ended, the desire to introduce new courses, the need
to teach newly upgraded courses, the need to offset attrition through retirements, and the
medium- and long-term need for more faculty due to the projected expansion of student
enrollments.
4.20        At the universities, the project will finance foreign travel for faculty, for
fellowships, conferences, workshops and attachments. The University of Cape Coast will provide
course training and in-service methodology training of faculty. Equipment maintenance staff will
also be trained further. At the University College, 10 tutors will pursue degree studies under the
project. At the polytechnics, the project will finance 45 academic staff for degree studies - 10
abroad and 35 in Ghana - who will be able to teach the proposed new and upgraded courses on
their return. There will also be in-service training programs for academic staff, to update their
knowledge, as well as for laboratory technicians and workshop assistants. Special workshops will
be organized for entrepreneurship development, industrial liaison, and staff development officers.
The overall training program is set out in Annex 4-7. The scope of the first year program has
been agreed at negotiations, and the Government will provide shortly the details of individual
training. The institutions will prepare annual training programs for the following academic year
satisfactory to IDA by January 31 each year.
(vii) Research Funding.
4.21        The proposed credit will provide US$1 million to support research at the
universities. A first draft of the Govenment's proposals for this component (Annex 4-8) was
discussed at negotiations and will be elaborated further. It provides for a broadly representative
managing committee, with subject panels to assist it in reviewing proposals. There would be
maximum amounts of funding for individuals' proposals, group proposals, and requests for



-28 -
special equipment, to ensure that a substantial number of research proposals can be funded. The
Government and IDA will agree, as a condition of disbursement for this component, on the
arrangements for managing the fund, and on the criteria to be used in selecting research proposals
for funding. The Government wilt include an annual report on the Research Fund in the
appropriate progress report to IDA on the project. The project will also finance training and
attachments in research methods and skills.
(viii) Management nId Technical Assigmne.
4.22        At the universities, the project will provide assistance in management including a
management information system at each institution, centralized timetabling with efficient space
allocation at each institution, new approaches to university teaching, curriculum development, and
career advisory services.
4.23        For the polytechnics, consultants will provide assistance in the supervision of civil
works; and the installation and commissioning of project equipment and training, especially
practical training, in mechanical and electrical engineering areas. The technical assistance
program for the institutions, including terms of reference for the universities which were
reviewed at negotiations, is set out in Annex 4-9.
5.    Pro3ect Costs and Financin
4.24        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$51.4 million equivalent, including
US$1.4 million in duties and taxes. The cost by type of recipient institution is as follows: MOE
and Boards: US$5.1 million; Universities: US$29.2 million; Polytechnics: US$14.3 million;
University College: US$1.4 million. Breakdown of the total cost by category of expenditure are
in Table 3 below.
4.25        Basis of Cost Estimates. MOE contracted local architecs and an IDA consultant
have updated the project civil works estimates to August 1992. Estmated costs for textbooks and
library journals and books reflect recent experience in a number of Bank Group-assisted projects
as well as in Ghana. Estimated costs for equipment reflect current catalogue prices of major
suppliers. Estimated costs for otier goods reflect recent experience under other IDA-assisted
projects in Ghana. Local and foreign fellowship costs reflect charges of typical host institutions.
Foreign and local consultancy costs are bas;4 on current rates. Base costs have been adjusted
to June 1992.
4.26        Estimated project costs include physical contingencies equivalent in total to 10%
of base costs. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and
expected annual price increases as follows: local 8% for 1992 and 5% per annum during 1993-
97; and foreign 2.8% for 1992, 3.9% per annum for 1993-94, and 3.8% for 1995-97.



- 29 -
Tale 3
Project Cost Summary
Costs by Category of Expenditure (US$ Million)
Category
of ExpendIUtu            LocI   Foreign       Totaw
Civil Works               8.7       5.7       14.4
Equipment                 0.0      12.5       12.5
Books & Journals          0.0       3.7        3.7
Computers                 0.0       1.9  *     1.9
Vehicles                  0.0       1.0        1.0
Staff Development         1.1       1.0        2.1
Technical Assistance      2.3       2.5        4.8
Research                  0.5       0.5        1.0
Studies                   0.5       0.1        0.6
Incremental Recurrent
Costs                    0.3      0.3         0.6
Duties and taxes          1.4                  1 14
Base Cost                14.8      29.2       44.0
Physical Contingencies    1.3       2.9        4.2
Price Contingencies       Lo     322
Total Project Cost       17.1      34.3       51.4
4.27     Financing Pjan. The total project cost of US$51.4 million equivalent, including
US$34.3 million in foreign costs and US$17.1 million in local costs, will be financed by:
(a) the proposed IDA credit of US$45.0 million, which will finance US$33.0 million
(96%) of foreign costs and US$12.0 million (70%) of local costs, and 88% of total
project costs;
(b) US$6.4 million from the Government, which will finance US$1.3 million in
foreign costs and US$5.1 million in local costs and 12% of total project costs.
4.28     The project budget for 1993 was agreed at negotiations. To channel its
contributions to the project, the Government has agreed to establish a tertiary education
project account to be operated by MOE, and to deposit the counterpart funds required by the
project for the first quarter of 1993 in this account as a condition of credit effectiveness. The
amount required for effectiveness is US$70,000 equivalent. The Government has also agreed
to review the budgetary requirements of the project annually with IDA and, after the initial
deposit, to deposit the counterpart funds required by the project into the account quarterly in
advance.



-30-
4.29     The recurrent cost implications of the project, and hence its financial sustainabUlity,
are part of the larger picture of education sector expansion and its financing. Tbe proposed
IDA credit would finance only a small amount (US$300,000) of incremental recurrent costs of
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, and salaries of contract staff for CU.
Discussion of the recurrent costs of the education program is in Part m of this report.
V. ERWEaJ
1.  Process Nd Status of Enaratign
5.1      MOE requested proposals from the tertiary institutions for inclusion in the
proposed project in mid-1990. It worked these proposals, and others for system-wide
developments and expenditures, into an integrated and coherent proposal for tertiary education
reform and development, and presented this to the IDA identification mission in July 1991.
MOE and the institutions worked further on preparation activities discussed with the
identification, preappraisal and appraisal missions. The project was appraised in March 1992
and negotiations were held in August 1992. MOE is continuing work on the University
College, the research and equipment maintenance components of the project, and procurement
planning.
5.2      MOE is using a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$580,000, approved in
October 1991, to strengthen project management arrangements; to continue work on the
establishment of the proposed new boards; to launch reviews of the academic programs in the
universities, polytechnics and diploma-awarding colleges; to retain consultants for
architectural services, equipment selection and maintenance, MIS design for project
management, a tracer study of graduates, and research strengthening; and for training in
project management, planning and procurement.
2.  Prject Managen and Cordination
5.3      The institutions and units that will be responsible for the Government's subsector
program, and for the ADF- and IDA-financed projects within it, are intertwined and have to
be considered together.
5.4      At the center, the subsector program and related projects are being managed by the
Ministry of Education. Several units are closely involved in the program, under the overall
management of the PNDC Deputy Secretary for Higher Education, who will also have a small
group of educational advisers/consultants on secondment from universities for limited periods.
These units are:
(a) Higher Education Division (HED) - this is the line unit for normal running of
higher education, headed by an Acting Chief Director, the highest civil service
rank; it has recently recruited several additional professionals but will remain
small, dealing largely with tldministrative matters. I can draw on many persons
within the subsector to asist it, as well as the:
(b) Coordinating Unit for Managing External Funding (CU) -- this new unit (para.
5.8) will not manage the reform program, but only physical project implementation
activities for higher education as well as the other divisions of MOE. It will



- 31 -
enable the recruitment of a sufficient number of suitable persons dn a short-term
consultant basis. It will be responsible for the IDA-financed project, as well as
intr AU those for tertiary education financed or to be financed by other donors.
It will handle the client's side of implementation such as civil works, goods
procurement, disbursements, accounts, logistics, and project monitoring; and
(c) MOE's Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Division - this unit will
monitor the application of staffing and financial norms in tertiary education, as
well as progress in meeting the projections and targets implied by the
Government's tertiary education policy.
5.5      To coordinate the subsector program, MOE will continue to make use of the
National Implementation Committee for Tertiary Reform (NICTR). This committee meets
quarterly on matters requiring plenary action. It has created several sub-committees for
different aspects of the program, as well as for preparation of the major components of the
proposed project. Thus large numbers of experts from the tertiary institutions themselves
participate in developing the program, supplementing MOE's internal resources, and enrich
their own institutions as well.
5.6      At the tertiary institutions, a senior official is the representative on the NICTR:
Pro-Vice-Chancellors for the universities, Directors for the polytechnics. The newly-
appointed heads of the planning units created recently at each university will play a
monitoring role in the program; at the polytechnics, officials analogous to university registrars
are being recruited who may play this role. The universities each have one staff member with
experience of private ,ector procurement. MOE further plans to make considerable use of,
and to build up, capacity within the institutions.
5.7      For its project management activities since 198t, MOE has developed a Project
Management Unit which is functioning successfully with responsibility for the IDA-financed
EdSAC, EdSAC II, and Community Secondary School projects and the USAID-financed
primary education project, all of which are managed by the School Education Division of
MOE. The PMU has demonstrated impressive commitment and organization capability
throughout the program. The staff have gained considerable experience in different types of
education investments. It has at times been overextended in terms of handling procurement,
given a heavy burden of EdSAC II activities and some staff attrition. The PMU has an
efficient accounting and payment system. Additional staff in the Non-Formal Education
Division are working on the new Literacy and Functional Skills program/project. In the
course of preparing the proposed tertiary education projects for ADF and IDA financing, and
in anticipation of project implementation, MOE has assigned, recruited and employed on a
consultancy basis a number of both civil servants and persons from education institutions (next
paragraph). These persons make up a valuable and needed supplement to the resources
available to handle MOE's total project worldoad.
5.8      To benefit from the experience of the existing PMU staff and from economies of
scale, as well as to avoid an inefficient proliferation of project management units within a
single Ministry, MOE will unify responsibility for all project implementation activities, at all
levels of the education system. It will establish a new Coordinating Unit for Managing
External Funding (CU) under acceptable terms of reference as a condition of effectiveness.
The MOE's present plans are that CU will be headed by a senior official in the office of the
Secretary for Education. There will be coordinators for school education, non-formal



- 32 -
education and tertiary education. Staff will be organized in functional units dealing with
procurement, financial matters, and support and logistics, each of which will deal with the
whole range of education projects.
5.9      MOE's staffing specifically for tertiary education project implementation will be as
follows. A consultant to MOE is in place for academic programs and training, which covers
the universities; and civil servants in HED for polytechnics and the University College. The
coordinator for tertiary education in CU will work with staff for civil works; goods
procurement; accounts and disbursements; and logistics and administration. MOE has
designated as coordinator an experienced university administrator, who has just retired as
secretary of the University of Ghana Medical School. He has been on the job full-time since
January 1992. ADF has agreed with the Government that it will finance a deputy
coordinator/architect, civil engineer and accountant; candidates have been selected and
proposed to ADF. One experienced procurement officer is already working on tertiary
education project matters.
5.10     To ensure that enough key staff are in place, MOE will staff CU with personnel
with acceptable qualifications and experience as a condition of effectiveness. The
Government has agreed to maintain such staffing throughout the project.
5.11     CU staff and consultants who will work on the proposed proje" will receive
training in procurement and other areas of project management, financed out of the already-
approved PPF; they will participate in seminars on procurement and disbursements given
periodically by specialized Bank staff visiting Ghana; and they will participate in a project
launch workshop.
5.12     To assist it in project implementation, and in view of the complexity of certain
aspects, MOE will employ specialized agents or consultants for procurement (see below), as
well as for the establishment of a project management information system, and the audit of the
project accounts.
5.13     Coordination among MOE, the African Development Fund and IDA already
covers these specific items each institution will finance, while the project implementation
arrangements, and their financing, covering the needs of both projects have also been
established. The three parties will also hold annual consultations, convened by the
Government, during.project implementation for continuing coordination. ADF and IDA are
expected to be involved in financing similar activities Cm particular, civil works and
equipment) at the universities and polytechnics. Ideally the arrangements should be the same,
but for supervision of civil works, ADF may expect a stronger role for CU staff than does
IDA; IDA will require a competitive selection process for architectural consultants in the
different regions, while ADF has agreed to the use of the development offices at the
universities and the public sector Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation at the
polytechnics. Procurement of goods is expected to be easier to coordinate, as MOE has
agreed to use the sample bidding documents developed jointly by the World Bank and ADB,
country eligibility apart.
5.14     Monitoring  eporting and Evaluation. The project coordinator will be
responsible for preparing semiannual progress reports on the project and providing them to
IDA. These will to the extent possible reflect the CU's own management information system
for tracking and managing the progress of the project. The Government and IDA have agreed



- 33 -
to hold a mid-term review of the project between September 30, 1994 and March 31, 1995.
To the ext-nt necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the project and the
Government's program set out in its Letter of Higher Education Development Policy, the
Government will prepare an action plan acceptable to IDA and then implement it. Finally,
MOE will provide Part I of a project completion report to IDA within six months of the
Closing Date.
5.15     The Goverment and IDA have agreed at negotiations to monitor indicators of
Government and institutional actions in ten key areas, to judge the progress of the tertiary
education reform program. They will be the main focus of the mid-term review, along with
the effectiveness of technical assistance under the project in skill transfer. The indicators are
the following:
(a) For Government:
(i)  Intakes/enrollments in project institutions;
(ii)  Tertiary education's share of MOE's actual recurrent budget and
expenditures;
(iii) Tertiary education's budgeted share of the public investment program in
education;
(iv) Student loans; and
(v)  Cost recovery measures.
(b) For educational institutions:
(i)  Overall students-to-academic-staff ratio;
(ii)  Non-academic staff numbers;
(iii) Time/space/facility utilization;
(iv) Library acquisitions budget; and
(v)  Maintenance budget.
5.16   The levels and phasing for these indicators, for joint monitoring, are those contained
in the Government's Letter of Higher Education Development Policy and action plan on the
student loan scheme; those for institutional action X-8 al,o reflected in the memoranda of
understanding negotiated between the Government and the Insitions (para. 3.57 and Annex
5-4).
3. Procurement
(a) Proiect Elements. Estimated Co. and  Mods of Procu
5.17       Methods of procurement by type of expenditure are set out below, and
summarized with the amounts involved in Table 4. An attempt will be made to harmonize
procurement procedures and documentation under the proposed project with those under the
ADF-financed project to the extent possible, to minImize the load on MOE and the
educational institutions.
5.18       Civil Works. Civil works are inclusive of architectural/engineering consultant
services. Works at the universities will be bid in one package with several lots to be awarded
individually or grouped to make the least cost combination. Works at any one polytechnic



- 34 -
and the University College, being individually small, will be grouped to make one larger
contract per institution. Contracts over US$1 million equivalent may interest foreign bidders
and will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Local contractors will
be allowed a preference margin of 7 1/2% in bid evaluation under ICB. Smaller contracts not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$3 million equivalent will be awarded after local
competitive bidding under current Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA and
include advertising in local newspapers, public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, and
award of contract to the lowest evaluated bidder; foreign frms will be eligible to bid. These
smaller contracts will be fixed-price, fixed-term contracts to overcome problems of delay and
escalation frequently encountered in Ghana.
5.19       Equipment. Computers and Vehicles. Laboratory and workshop items for
regular teaching will be standardized to the extent possible through the use of standard lists
for each course at polytechnics. Related equipment items, and computers and vehicles, will
be grouped into larger bid packages to promote wider competition. These items will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Domestic suppliers will be given a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. in bid evaluation under
ICB. Procurement through ICB will be exempt from price verification during pre-shipment
inspection. More specialized equipment items, possibly including some required for
individual research projects, costing US$50,000 or less will be procured individually over an
extended period; these will be procured on the basis of limited international bidding to ensure
adequate competition, with the list of firms approved by IDA, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,000,000. Small contracts for office and other equipment valued at US$50,000 or less
will be procured through local competitive bidding, up to an aggregate amount of
UlS$500,000. Contracts valued at US$20,000 or less will be procured on the basis of three
p ice quotations from eligible suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Contracts valued at US$10,000 or less for proprietary accessories and spare parts for
equipment will be procured on the basis of direct contracting, up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000. Equipment will be procured through procurement agents selacted competitively
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Clearing and forwarding services will be bid for
separately.
5.20       Textbooks, Library Journals and Reference Books. Textbooks required for
similar courses will be standardized to the extent possible, in particular at the polytechnics,
and multiple copies of each textbook will be bought. Textbooks, library journals and
reference books will be supplied through distributors, who will be recruited by MOE through
international competitive bidding on the basis of the discount they will provide from
publishers' listed prices, with post-review of their experience and capability.
5.21       Overseas and Local Traininng. Fellowship candidates will be selected in line with
the strategies discussed in para. 3.23 above. They will be placed in institutions mainly on the
basis of the relevance and quality of the programs offered, but also costs and prior
experience. Local training under the project will be managed by the University of Cape
Coast.
5.22       Consultant Services. Architectural and any other consultants not previously
mentioned will be selected and employed in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Terms of reference for management consultants and
otier technical assistance have been agreed at negotiations. Standard Bank documents will be
used. All technical assistance are considered as part of the capacity-building process.



- 35 -
TAhbl2 4
(US$ Million, including coningencies)
Procurement Method                            Total
Project Eemaent             ICB      LCB       UIB     OTHEIt  N.B.F.         cost
1.  Wor h                 14.1     3.7                                        17.8
(11.3)   (3.0)                                     (14.3)
2.  fis
2.1  Equipment            12.9     0.5        0.5      0.6                    14.5
(12.9)   (0.5)     (0.5)    (0.6)                  (14.5)
2.2  Books and Journals   4.3                                                 4.3
(4.3)                                              (4.3)
2.3  Computes              2.2                                                 2.2
(2.2)                                              (2.2)
2.4  Vehicles              1.2                                                1.2
(1.2)                                              (1.2)
3. 
3.1  Staff Delavopment                                 2.3                    2.3
(2.3)                  (2.3)
3.2  Technical AssIstance                              4.8        0.6         5.4
(4.8)     (0.0)        (4.8)
3.3  Studies                                           0.7                    0.7
(0.1)                 (0.1)
3.4  Incremental Recurrent
costs                                             0.3        0.3         0.6
(0.3)     (0.0)        (0.3)
4.    dnslrsu
4.1  Reseurch Expenditures                    0.5      0.5                     1.0
(0.5)    (0.5)                  (1.0)
4.2  Duties and Taxes                                             1.4          1.4
(0.0)       (0-0)
TOWal                34.7     4.2        1.0       9.2       2.3         51.4
IlDA-Inandng         (31.9)   0.5)      (1.0)    (84)        (0.0)      (4.0)
Notes: FIgues in par enwheses are th repecthiv amounts finanxed by the IDA crediL
N.B.F.: Not IlDA-Financed



- 36 -
(b)   The Implementing Agencies
5.23         Project procurement will be carried out by MOE's CU assisted by
procurement agents. MOE is currently recruiting an architect and civil engineer to handle
tertiary education civil works. It has one procurement officer who is experienced in
procurement in education projects according to Bank guidelines.
MOE will also hire consultants and others as mentioned above to assist it
with:
(a)    Architectural and engineering services (one or more firms, to cover the three
zones into which MOE has grouped the project works); and
(b)    Equipment (and computers and vehicles) procurement; clearing and
forwarding.
5.24         To speed up project implementation, MOE brought first drafts of bidding
documents for recruiting some of these agents and consultants to negotiations. Selection of
firms/agencies for architectural and engineering services (one or more firms as needed),
procurement of equipment, and of textbooks and reference books, acceptable to IDA will be
conditions of effectiveness. As mentioned above, standard bidding documents will be used
wherever available.
(c)    Borrower's Procurement Procedures and Regulations
5.25         Ghana's local competitive bidding procedures are acceptable if they include
provision for advertising, public bid opening and the award of contract to the lowest evaluated
bidder. These provisions have been agreed at negotiations.
(d)    Procurement Timetable
5.26         Procurement schedule is at Annex 5-1.
(e)    Procurement Supervision
5.27         For civil works, IDA will review the bidding documents and contract award
for contracts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent, which will involve prior IDA review of
almost all of the value of civil works procurement. For equipment, computers, and vehicles,
IDA will review the degree of standardization achieved in equipment lists, the bid packaging,
the lists of suppliers proposed under LIB, the procurement documents and contract awards for
all contracts for $100,000 or more, which will involve prior IDA review of about 75% of the
value of such procurement. IDA will also carry out a selective post-review of smaller
contracs for specialized equipment. IDA will review annually the proposed list of fellowship
candidates and their study programs for the next year. IDA will also review the bidding
documents for, and selection of, all distributors (for books and journals) and consultant firms.
(f)    Recording of Procurement Information
5.28         MOE will maintain adequate records on procurement progress, including
architects' reports on field/site visits; the timing of goods procurement; and compliance with



-37 -
agreed methods of procurement, and use them ini its own project monitoring system. It will
sum up progress in proctrement quarterly, and update the project cost estimates annually, and
report them to IDA.
4.    Disbursements. Accounts and Audit
5.29         The proposed credit of US$45.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over five
years, with a Closing Date of December 31, 1997 (Annex 5-3). This compares with the
historical average for PHR projects in the Africa Region of eight years, and for all projects in
Ghana of seven years. More rapid disbursement than these historical averages is expected
because of the Government's intention to supplement its own capacity with extenive use of
procurement agents, some to be recruited before credit effectiveness; and to prepare a
substantial amount of procurement documentation (using Bank standard documents) before
effectiveness. Additional factors which should speed up implementation and disbursements
are the bulking of equipment and a portion of textbook purchases, for procurement early in
the project period; and the repetitive nature of library journal subscriptions.
5.30         The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed against various categories of
expenditure as follows:
rable 5
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA
Allocations           % of Expenditures
Categga of Expenditures    (US$ Million)         Filanced bv IDA
1. Civil Works              12.0                   80%
2. Equipment, Computers     15.9                   100% foreign
Expenditures and Vehicles                       90%  local
3. Books and Journals        3.9                   100% foreign
4. Training                  2.2                   100%
5. Technical Assistance      4.1                   100%
6. Research Fund             1.0                   100%
Sub-Project Expenditures
7. Studies                   0.1                   100% foreign
8. University College        1.3                   100% forIgi
Expenditures                                    90%  local
9. Incremental Recurrent Costs  0.3                 90%
10. Project Preparation Facility 0.6
11. Unallocated              3 
Total Credit Amoumt         45.0



- 38 -
5.31         Retroactive financing will be permitted in a maximum amount of SDR 700,000
(about 2% of the proposed credit), for payments made for expenditutes incurred after July 1,
1992 and before credit signing for civil works, equipment, books and journals, staff development,
and technical assistance, provided they have been procured and selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines and with prior IDA approval. Such expenditures will permit maintaining the
momentum of project preparation and starting the first group of fellowships this academic year
rather than only in October 1993.
5.32         Withdrawal applications relating to contracts for works, goods and services with
an individual contract value equivalent to or exceeding US$50,000 will be supported by full
documentation. Disbursements against smaller contracts, and for all training and project
management expenditures, will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE), with
supporting documents retained by MOE for inspection by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
The CU will prepare withdrawal applications, aggregate them into amounts of at least $100,000,
and then submit them to IDA.
5.33         To expedite disbursements against eligible expenditures, MOE will establish a
Special Account in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank. MOE will operate this account and use it
to make payments against all categories of expenditure. IDA will make an initial deposit of US$3
million into the account, representing the estimated maximum four-month requirement. MOE will
apply for replenishment quarterly or whenever the balance is reduced to one-third of the original
amount, whichever occurs earlier. The Government will set up the Special Account before
effectiveness.
5.34         The Government will also open a tertiary education project account in local
currency, into which it will pay its counterpart contributions (estimated at US$6.4 million
equivalent over the project life). These funds will be used only for project expenditures.
5.35         MOE will maintain project accounts for all transactions under the project. It will
be responsible for disbursing all project funds. The proJect accounts, the Special Account and
statements of expenditure will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
The audited accounts and long form auditors' report, including a separate opinion on statements
of expenditures, will be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
5.    Environmental Aspect
5.36         There will be construction of new buildings and additional sanitary facilities. IDA
has verified that there is in place in Ghana a satisfactory process for environmental review of the
building plans and for monitoring of construction under the project.
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RIK
1.    Bene
6.1          The benefits of the proposed project will accrue in terms of all of the major
objectives of the Government's tertiary education program: integration; restructuring; upgrading;



-39 -
rehabilitation; quality improvement; expansion; improved management; increased efficiency; and
diversification of financing. Within this broad canvas, the stress in the first phase of the
program, and therefore the primary area of benefits from the proposed project, is on the
improvement of quality in the processes of teaching and learning.
6.2          The project will help to bring about a substantial improvement in the quality of
teaching and learning in the universities, the University College and the polytechnics. An
important part of the impact will come from physical inputs. The enormously increased
accessibility of key textbooks, in particular, will enable a substantial improvement in students'
learning. They will benefit greatly, too, in practical subjects from being able both to see
demonstrated and to carry out themselves the experiments, projects and practical work required
by the syllabi, as a result of the provision of laboratory and workshop equipment under the
project. The other key improvement will be in the teaching input. Academic program review;
curriculum updating as well as increased practicality and relevance to development and
employment; and vital staff development to enable academic staff to deliver the new material with
greater impact will all play important parts.
6.3          The second major benefit of the project will be to enable Ghana to prepare for and
handle a reasonable and controlled expansion of the intakes into the universities and polytechnics
over the next several years, in response to the needs of the economy as it grows, on the one hand,
and the supply of candidates from the new secondary school system. The project will make two
main contributions in this area. First will be the provision of additional academic spaces, to the
extent these are needed after increasing the utilization of existing facilities wherever possible.
The project is expected to provide, in particular, large lecture theaters, common classroom blocks
and additional reading/study spaces. Second will be a stress on providing facilities which enable a
major expansion in the number of non-residential students.
6.4          Any significant expansion of such a system requires an assurance of sustahnabiity.
The project will make an important contribution to the effort the Government is making to ensure
that the program will be sustainable in terms of policies, through the political transition and over
the long term. The Government is involving all the educational institutions more and more in the
program's development and implementation; improving communications with the academic
community; and bringing it the tools it needs, to do the better job that it wants to do, through the
proposed project (and that being financed by the African Development Fund). The proposed
project will also address direcdy the second crucial area of suEtainability, that of financial
sustainabiity. It will do this by providing for: relating the expansion undertaken to certain limits
on future budget shares for tertiary education; helping Government and institutions to implement
phased improvements in staffing norms to increase efficiency; and increasing cost recovery,
through new charges and tightening of the student loan scheme as necessary.
2.    Eibks
6.5          There is a risk that the political transition and possible personnel changes in
Ghana at the end of 1992 could change the Government's tertiary education policy. However,
substantial change is considered unlikely. The major sector risk to the Government's reform
program, and to the success of the proposed project, is that the Ministry of Education could lose
control of tertiary enrollments - especially university enrollments - in the face of the social
demand for higher education. This risk is particularly severe in the four academic years 1994/95-
1997/98, which are years of double intake to tertiary education. The old secondary system will
be producing up to 8,000 final year students ("A"-level candidates) annually, while the new senior



- 40 -
secondary schools will be producing another 50-70,000 annually, a total 7-10 times larger than
hitherto. Tlese pupils will be pressing on a tertiary system which can only absorb some 30% of
successful graduates in total, including not more than 10% at the universities. A sudden
explosion of enrollments would have a disastrous impact on the quality of tertiary education. This
risk will be mitigated by campaigns of political and public education, but remains a cause of
concern.
6.6          A second risk is of not achieving the intended efficiency gains in tertiary
education, especially the increases in students-to-academic-staff ratios and in the proportion of
non-residential students. The first would keep up unit costs on the recurrent side, while the
second if it led to a renewed hostel building program would direct resources away from needed
academic spaces. The first risk amounts to the Government never getting control of the university
system. It will be mitigad further by a MOE campaign of consensus-bu,iding and negotiation
around the norms, as well as its partial control of the numbers of academic and non-academic
staff funded. The second risk could involve student protests caused by increasing hostel densities,
on a larger scale than occurred already in 1991192 at the University of Science and Technology in
Kumasi. ThhI risk will be mitigated by improvements in sanitary facilities in hostels under the
project; by MOE's and the institutions' proposed program of making non-residentiality more
attractive by constructing on-campus facilities for non-residential students, some under the
proposed project; and by the proposed study on their conditions.
6.7          Associated in part with the enrollments risk, and in part with the risk of not
achieving the intended efficiency gains, is the risk of a budget explosion in tertiary education.
Since the Government will limit education's share of the national budget so as not to constrain
other sectors unduly, uncontrolled growth of spending on tertiary education could seriously harm
expansion and quality improvements underway at lower levels of education. This risk will be
mitigated by the Government's sector strategy, and by encouragement from donors, primarily
IDA and USAID, to promote and safeguard primary and/or basic (primary plus junior secondary)
education.
6.8          The most significant project risk is that MOE's implementation capacity will be
insufficient. This risk is being mitigated by p.oposed covenants to ensure adequate staffing from
the start; by consultancy arrangements for the CU itself; by use of personnel from the educational
insttutions; by training; and by extensive use of consultants and procurement agents.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACH              AND
7.1          The following agreements have been reached:
(a)    The Government and the insttutions will:
Q)    control intakes and enrollments (para. 3.34);
(ii)   limit tertary education's share of Government budgets and actual
expenditures on education (para. 3.48);



- 41 -
(iii)  implement cost recovery mechanisms (para. 3.53); and
(iv)   adjust student-academic staff ratios (para. 3.41);
(b)    The Government will review and agree its public expenditure program for tertiary
education (recurrent and investments) with IDA annually through 1996, within the
framework of the overall public expenditure reviews while those continue and
separately thereafter; and will agree that budgets and actual expenditures each year
will not diverge by more than 10% (except as a result of unanticipated salary
increases) (para. 3.50);
(c)    The Government and SSNIT will implement the agreed action plan for the student
loan scheme (para. 3.56);
(d)    To ensure the timely and sufficient funding of the project, the Government will
(para. 4.30):
(i)    Review the budgetary requirements of the project annually by September
30 with IDA; and
(ii)    Deposit sufficient counterpart funds in the Project Account quarterly in
advance;
(e)    Procurement through international competitive bidding will be exempt from price
verification (para. 5.19); and
(f)    A joint mid-term review of the project will be held between September 30, 1994
and March 31, 1995, with special focus on the indicators of key policy actions by
the Government and the institutions under the program (para. 5.14).
7.2          The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    Establishment of MOE's Coordinating Unit for Managing External Funding with
sufficient staffing for project implementation (paras. 5.8 and 5.10);
(b)    Establishment of the Project Account and deposit of counterpart funds (US$70,000
equivalent) required for the first quarter of 1993 (para. 4.30); and
(c)    Selection of organizations to assist MOE in procurement (para. 5.24):
(i)    Ghana Supply Commission or other procurement agent, for equipment;
(ii)    A firm of distributors, for textbooks and reference books; and
(iii) A firm or firms of architectural and engineering consultants, for civil
works;



-4
7.3          lhe following will be c
(a)    Against research expenditum (pam  4.23):
The Government will agree with IDA on:
(i) Arangement for managing the Research Fund; ad
(ii) Criteria for slecting research proposs for fiding; and
(b)    Against expenditures for the Univer4ty Colloge (p    4.9):
)    It has been formally established;
(ii)   The principal has been appointed; and
(ii)  Tbe College has provided a signed m rn   of undertanding with
Goveroment sadsfactory to IDA, reflectdg ts obligation under the
program.
7.5          On the basis of the foregoing agreements, the project is suitble for an crodi of
SDR 31.2 million, equivalent to $45.0 million, to the Republic of Ghau on stnard IDA trm
with a matuty of 40 years.
Western Afrba Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
September 30, 1992



REPUBLIC OF GIANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Plan for Implementation of Structural Reform of Education
IN   GHANA:  1987-2000
ACACEI$61I6       7       8      9      to    11    12    13    14    15    16           1?     18    19      20      21     22
195UD           Pt     P3     P  P S        PS    ISSI    4t~   14       44    SmI    si      53 (E  SiD.   is     ii      us    ss
1989/90 Fp7l              m9xill3li19mW m<                                                                      <l 
1991191P                      P1.   PS    *P6    S        JSSI           S
£99219)   PS    Pt    P3                                                                                                   u
1 94195         P      PPS                                              S       S        S     S I
996/9P                                                                         iSit   SS3   N        7Cm  ICt    rC3
1997/IS   P     Pt      3     P4      P      6                                                                            TSI 1$    S3 55  i    5S  i  C  C  C  CI
1998199   P83   Pt     P3     P       P     P       SS    l S       13   SS   SSS    5         S    XC      ICt    C
O O  SY5TE W(6# *4*S*) 1. COMMOj ENlERANCE ENDS  MARCH; 19 9EW   SYS IE Us  6*3,)
CD                   2. MNDSOO   4 ENDS AUGUST, 1990      0      .
P    PRIMAnY                 'O    t      E                      C                    P:   PRIMARY
KEY     MIDDLE                 3* .  LEVEl.  ENOS   JUNE. 8994    C)KEY:   Ji. S.! FJW"iOdeCVNm   sOOoc
S    SECOtIDARY             .. 'A  LEVEC       EHCS   JUNE. 1996                      S. S. S. s SEHIR SECmIIM   SC0DW
16:  LOWER ,6                     J.S I S.  TES. R4MHAL(WftO.DOnWAI))                 N. S.  : NATIONAL SERVICt
U6   UPPER 6             &6. $   S.fSS.  TERMINAL1W.iOOFWI)                         1. C.    THIRO  CYCLE
7.    T 1.i C.    I ERMINAL (*OloD Of WOK)          _



RWVUBLIC 0. G0, 
rERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Current Tertiary Institutions and Qualifications Awarded
:                     ~~~~~~~~CURRENT n1 ERTURY EDUCATION SYSTEM
UNWVERStES                   DIP- OMA COLLEGES        .          OLYTECHNICS            AGrICUlIUIEAICI  COllEGES
Peupad. Do.gIm
Fid ID g ,
iR,.~~ ~~Lz  I I                                .hub,iIha,u I                                    :__1 inb
; _d__     _tl         'I
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



REPUBLIC OF CIIANA
:,:
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Propoded Tertiary Education System, Qualifications and Student Path
4..~~~:
%1                                                   P ROroSED TERTINYXI)WATINoHsYsU
AMUD ARTS. SC.ENCE. TECHNOLOG
PmSpeihah D_w      -
t               ..                           l              l                          1--u-.-..I
Itt  -I_-   ,  I                                                                              .               |~~~~~~~~~-
HI ',1 'I=m
Ik ;  .-L_±_-K
Iw



-46-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECTPae1o2
Comparative Education Indicators
-                --~~~hmw1 p-w                 -               -               -               -9
5:w.4nin@hi                     73w   105Gw             "w    SO0    37pw    . .       29w       2 W    *        .
ehsn,aud left                 13    119 w    ..      106w    25w    43.w    . .      34w       2 I
Oshwbv"e.               * 49 w  IS5w  37w6 w   ow lS.   SW  SOw   l S . w IV  i.                                                     ,0 
I m.u M                        37      ai      26      Jo       3      3       2       4        0      0                              di
luap                            it     36        6     23       I      Is       I      12       0       1     .       24      4       43
4 samali                        10     ..              131      2      ..       £0                     3       56     ..      2
S  bamllmadh                   49      so       35     49      13      Is      2       55       I      s      ..      62              i
6 LAD PD                       40    110        30     95       2     27        1     22        0      j      ..      3       37      27
7  Malawi                      4       72      32      a,'      2      4        1       2       0      1              Ss 
SIpeS20                                36       4      57       5     30       1       17'      1      $       .      6
9                     ~~3'     $1       IS     29       I              0       2               1      ..      38      33
SODBarud"                       26      70      Is      so       5      4       1    .3         0       1      ..      46      40     a2
II Siam l.o,                    29      53      21     40       5      15       3               a. 0      1.         .  .3 2        . .
SMadap-aw                       65      97      59      95             19       S      19        I      4              66      71     40
13Niilni                        32      62      24      41      S      16       3       7       0      .        .      . .     33     39
S4 upd                          67      77      so      so      4       a       2       8       0       1 ..            s 33          30
is Zam                          70      76      45      di      5      22       2      14       0                              37     37
1I  Maui                        24      21      16      17      4       6       2       4       0       1              Is 1    46     is
I7   Ipr                        I 11    30       7      21       I      7       0       4               1              . .     42     '5
is  au*iamPUG                   12      32       5      Z46      I      6       I       4       0       1      ..      27      47     di
S9ORWmad                        53      64      43      66      2       6       I       S       0       0              64      67     57
lO Iulha                        74      99      57      a3      27     41      13      29        5             .               42
21  Cz.                         89    13'       .      126      24      4      ..      37        0      2             too0     .      23
32Maid                          so      a?      44      1        5     19       3      1 ?      0      *4
23 Kean                         St      93      40      91       4     23       2       19                                            412 
24 Pakd=                        40      40      20      25      II     19       5      11        2      S                             35 4
253mm11                         3'      63      25      43       3     16       2       9        0                     30o     dt     3
26 CinuuAftiamRMP6              54      67      28      SI       2     I11       I      6               5              49      54      70
27  Gbm=                        69      73      57      66      53     39       7      30        1      2                      32     24
28 Topo                         55    101       32      71       3     24       2      12        0      3              73      so     52
29 Zsatria                      23      9?      46      92       7     . .      3      ..2                      .      . .     SI      4?
30 Ouinm                        31      30       19     19       5      9        2      4        0      I      ..      23      d.e4
31 SuiLanka                     93    107        56    103      35      71     35      74        2    4        ..     50               14
32 Ladso                        94    112       114    12        4     Zs       4      30        0-    4       ..      ..      57      54
33n.lia                   72    119        es    il7      12      48       7      43       5      ..      2      00      . .     28
,3'Mwuimnia                      13      32       6      43       1     18       0      10       ..      3      .        .      20     so
~:  ASA WNaSnM                    16      . .      S      . .     2      . .      I      . .      0      ..      ..      ..      5
365A.su'                         7      26        1     20       0      5       .       2       ..     .        .      .        *      37
37k.ycAaD.s                     77      . .     56      *.       9     ..              .  .      .             .       .       48
-33U isa41                              35      23               5      ..       3      . .      I      3       .
39. Afyv~   ~71    10o                  65    10        is              I1     21        I      . 
d0 sudwm                        29      49      21                     20        2               5      248
M5ddObxmei=umw                  92 w104 w   36 w102 w  26 w  UV  23 .5So    7   17 w..    39w  36 w  23.t
--u.ldeIua8 9 w  103 w    S1lwIOI     25. w Sw    225w    54w                               7TV 17.. .             Stw    38.2w D
42                               39 .9           26     *        5      ..       4      ..       0      ..       .
43 3o1via                       73      91       60     a1      18      3753S          is        5      is      73     42      23      2
" 3Wpt. Amb Rep.                75      g0       60     ;9      26      *p      ts      55       7      20      ..     ..      39      Jo
4SSins111                       40      59       29     49       1      16       3      50       I.3            s.o5    43             34
46 Yem.R P5e                     3      . .       3     . .      3      ..       5     ..   .           . .             ..      4 
47  ZLmbsbwe            150    123       92    126       6      St       5      42       0       4...           v1a     . .    Jo
48  toi                         113    110      III    III      41      71      40      71      19      23      95      93      31     33
so  Doadflk    RqL  17    11    87    103       52      74      12      . .      2      ..      .        3      53     3
St  maam                         ST5  7          35              II1     36      S      30       1      1        7      S       39
SlhfpuaNiwGamim                 44.    71        35     45       4      U3       2       9      ..       2       .      . .     19     3
53lloandmo                       s0    ICE       79    101      50      32       9                1      9     9..      91
S4sa  umsam                     so       77      45      10      3      21       7      :        2       9      53      ..      33 
Ss Coops. .qIaSRp               114      . .     94      . .     50     . .      s                '. I   8 a                    60     6
Si SytinAaAblp                   73     520      52    104      28      5T      U3      47       3      15      37      99      36 
57 Camsaas                       94    I1l       75    l 16         5 27         2      21       0       3      GP      10      47 
Ss Pm                            99' ..          90      . .    25      . .     21      . .      8      26      ..               6
59 &=dr                          91    117       a3    116      17      34      56      57       3      26      73      .       37 
60 Namuibi
61                             s&zayib    1si    ii    Id       **      *i      b       ii      *        *         
62  aSI"Admr                     52      10      79      85I     17     29      57      31       2      57      ..      72      3'      45
43 cooIaibj                      34    1141S6           115.-17         SO      16      56       3      14      ..      73      36      ZP
66  T112112u1                    73      57      74      . .     14     23      551     . .      2      Id                      35      5,
SIuimwj=                       l09    503       506    505      St     63       so     61        3       4                             id97 .
M6Tunisia                        91    11d       65    505       56     44       9      38       2       7              as 15   5        0
Nw: Pwdam  uupmISS.ymu ~m& imdma tahaam  no.FipemwMaSisaWMf0r7"ndw  baass SPSML                                    -----



47
ANNEX 2A-1
PaSW'-2of 2
low lm  7w i-m  I%$ im  im  im  im im
67                          101    117      83    IM       16    44       9     34      4      1 1    . .    84      46     31
68                           65    116      71    119      3              I             .      3      Ss     97      40    32
69  iofdm                    95     . .     n      . .    33             23             2     . .     . .    . .     38    is
70  PUMM                    102    106      99    104     34     59      36    63       7     28      IT     90      30    22
71  Chdg                   -124    im      122    101     34    74       36    76       6     18      94     90--   52      . .
i- costa Pin                106    100    105             24     41      25    42       6     24      92     as      27    32
73  patud                   104    IOD    102      99     0       81     69     93     is    20       96     99      28    16
74  MsLaidu                 lot    105      97    105     26      53     is    J3       3      2      82     95    316    23
75  M44co                    92    III      90    its      17    33      U      53      4      Is            99      47     31
76  Argeadn                 101    dt    IM       114     n       74     31    78      14     41                     20     . .
77  MWSYSU                   90    lm       84   102      28      57     22     57      2      7                     . .    21
78  Al#"                     69     96      53     87      7      62      5     53      1      9      77     89      43     23
79  =                       103    104    tO2    103      $4      75     is    76      17     25      96     9t      23    17
106     . .    93     . .     26     . .    20     . .     14
98    102      97    103     66     92     66     %        a
NI-8-                    0      99      0     lod     14    4i       13    58       2      8      65     76     34     n
Upp--Wddk-1,               98    104 w   94 w  103 w   28 w   58 w   24 w   33 w    6 w   16 w   30 w   90 w   32 w   26 w
93  Vencauft                 94    106      94    107     V      54      28     59      7     27      1111   89      34    26
84  South AMC&               90     . .     n              13     . .    14     . .     A     . .
83  Drug                    108    tod    103              16    32      16    45       2      1 1
86  Hunpjy                  101     96    IOD      97             71     . .    72     13      Is            93      23    14
P   Uruguy                  106    109    106    lot              77     46     . .     8     48             77      . .    23
88  Yugoslavia              106     94    (03      94     6s      so     59    79      13      ts                    3 I    . .
99  cabott                  134     . .    in      . .     I I    . .     5             .      5                     39     46
90  Irass. hi,               63    116      40    109      Is    S3      t !            2      7             96      32    29
!2.                                                82      34    85      - I     S.    87      88     34    24
.91 Tnaidad md bmp           93    iw       90    lw       36
92  Czedwslovakia            99     94      97     9.9    29    85       33    88      14    is                      23    21
93  PartugM                  ad    126      23    127     42      59     34    63       5      Is     9 1    100     32     . .
94  KOM36 Rep.              tot    104      99    104      33    87      25    84       6     37            100      62    36
95  Om"                      . .    too     . .    95      . .    42      .    334             4      n      n       . .    27
96  Libn                     78     . .     44     . .     14     . .     4                                          31    . .
97  Gnme                    tio    102    109    102      49      gy     41    91      10    28                      36    ?i
98  lmq                      74     96      AS     87      28     47     14    37       4      14     79     84      n      23
"   ROOmotia                101     07    lw       . .     39     79     n      m      10    10              . .     23     . .
LOW. ud                      73 w  IOS w    63 w   97 w   22 w   42 w   14 w   36 w    3 w    8 w            99 w   39 w   29 w
41 w   67 v    31 w   60 w    4 v   18 w    2 w   14 w    0 w    2 w            47 w   4 w   4 w
Lst Aslis                  88 w  123 w    . .    W  w   23 w   46 w   . .    41 w    I w    S w           100 w           U w
sowh Ads                   68 w   90 w    $2 w   76 v   24 w   37 w   12 tv  26 w    4 w   . .
Surom K&x4 ONAbin    85 v                                              27 w                    w.
98 w    73 w   92 w   32 w   60 w          a w    I so  14                      35
IA& Amain & careban    98 w  107 w    96 v  108 r   19 w   48 w   19 w   C w    4 w   17 w                 86 w   36 w   28 w
Seves*  bddKW              97 w  10) w    93 w  100 w   27 w   54 w   ZS v   9 w    I w   19 w   N w ' 89 w   34 w   V v
104 w  la w   106 w  to w   SI r   93 w   9 w   94 w   21 w   40 w    1111 w   % w   25 w   19 w
1016 w  103 w   106 w  103 w   63 w   95 w   61 w   96w   21 w   41 w    N w   96 w   ZS w   19 w
88 w   89 w    TS w   86 w   37 w   C w   32 w   9 w    7 w   17 w    72 w   63 w   28 w   20 w
100 tS=& Ambil               24      71      1 1    a       4     44       1    is       I     13      42     56      22    16
101  tmbad                   108    lot    108    101      51    98       50   102      12     2s      91    V        . .    27
102  Inain                   its    III    lit   Ila       38   la        29    III      6     n      100    lw       34    25
103 Tfiwd                    95     9s      ;S     97     49     83      SI    87      20     34                            19
loit tHang                  103    106       99    105     29     74      25    76       s     . .     k      : :     '29'   27
103 tsimsom                  M      III    loo    tio      45     0       41    70      to     . .    100     . .     29    26
106 , New T-1-4             106    106    IOIL   105      TS     97      74     n      is    36    too    loo        22    19
107  AUSWJk                         106            106     62     99      61   tot      16     2P      ge     98      28    17
log  uniw mvkm               92    107       92    107     66     a       66    84      12    23       97    im       . .    20
109  [WY                     112     95    tio    91       47     76      41    76      1 1    26      97     . .     22     a
1 10  Methatizods            104    117    1019   II?      61   M         37   102      17     32      91    too      31    17
III tKuvmk                   116     93    103      92     52      U      43    79      . .    17      a      ;9      23    18
112  imom                    109    100    108    lw       73     99      72   IM       Is    13       . .    as      21    Is
113  Ausaft                  106    102    105    101      52     80      52    82       9     31      89  1 91       20     It
114  Fman                    04    114    133    10         36    94      59    98      to     3s      98    100      30    21
US tUniud Amb gmimn           . .    lot     . .    toiL    . .    62     . .    69      0      9             93             Is
116  cars"                   los    105    lot    106       56    los     Ss   106      26     42             97             17
It?  C-12MMY                        105      . .    la      . .    96     . .    92     1 1    32             90      24     17
its  Dawwk                           97      99     99      13    tol     a     Jos     14     31                     I I    t 1
119  Uchd SCON;              too    im       . .    lm      . .    98     . .           40     do                     25    21
M   S .1 a                    95    101      96    101      62     90,    60    92      13     it    too    Ica       30    16
121  FirkM                    92    100      p     100     76    108.    80    116      it     40             . .     23     . .
122  Nomy                    97      97      98     97      69     94     dz    96      11     is    too      96      21    Id
123  kW                      100    lm      100    101     82            11I    96      13    30             too      29    22
124  Surientsiewl             17             97             37                           8     25
Otborecooon"                103 w  IOS w   103 w  100 w   70 w.  98 w   77 w   90 w   V w   23 w              96 v    12 w   to w
wwm                          85 w  104 w    74 w   98 w   31w   54V   VW           w    tv   16 w    84 w   91 w   33 w, 26 v
Oa apw"n (OWL UM           So w   87 w    37 w   It v   ltv   40v    Tv   34 w    I v   12 v   73 v   N w   B w   27 w
261



- 48 -
AUX 21i-2
Page 1 of 1
PtUBL!C OP 2 aw
ZRSY~R NDUC&STON PRO3NCT
STUDUT          P9L ,             1990
PRIMARY                                                                ('000)
0 Intake to P1                                                                 82
P1                                                                            421
P2                                                                            362
Ps                                                                            333
P4                                                                            303
P5                                                                            276
P6                                                                            252
Total Primary                                                                1945
Gross Uarollmant Rate *                                                        82
JUN=:C  SrCONDARY
Transition Rat. P6 - JSa1                                                      94
7131                                                                          201
.S82                                                                          197
JS83                                                                          175
Total J7SS                                                                    572
aross ZnroLlmlnt Rat.                                                          51
Total all Sear Sleondary                                                      199
Total UViaLiti.s                                                               12
Total PolyteAhnic                                                              10
Full-Tim                       4
Part-Tim                       6
Dipma Colleges                                                                  2
lutus  RICASS InatltmtLons                                                     19



- 49 -
ANNEX 2A-3
Page 1 of 2
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
AT CURRENT PRICES 1986-92 IN MILLIONS OF CEDIS
Expenditure    % of Total               Expenditure    % of Total
Year         on        Government                 on Higher    Education
Education     Recurrent    % of GDP   Education*    Expenditure
Expenditure
1986A       18,804         23.9          3.3         2,673         11.2
1987A       23,005         26.9          3.6         2,673         11.6
1988A       30,809         26.5          3.5         2,230         7.5
1989A       43,572         24.3          3.4         4,759         10.9
1990B       52,338           -            -         5,403          10.3
1991B       72,033                                  6,822          9.5
1992B    _87,387                             _      14,566         16.7
*Excludes Diploma Awarding College/Polytechnic until they were brought under MOE Higher
Education Division in 1990.
A - Actual
B - Budget
Source: MOE.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2A--3
Page 2 of 2
RECURRENT BUDGET FOR HIGHER EDUCATION, 1992
(¢ Million)
ItmI         Items 2-5            Tot
(Personnel) (Non-Personnel)
Universities               11,243.4         1,662.5         12,905.9
Polytechnics                 397.0            130.6            527.6
Diploma Colleges             977.0            155.9           1,132.9
TOTAL                      12.617.4         1.949.0         14.566.4
BUDGETED AND ACTUAL UNIVERSITY EXPENDrIURES, 1988-90
(Q Million)
I8 Mn1282                        i62
Budget                     3,026.6          4,759.0          5,387.1
Actual                     3,664.4          6,030.3           7,381.5
Sou: MOE.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2A-4
E?UBLC f HANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Investe Etrgram in Education. 1989-90
I |    ¢ Millions              % of Total
1989       1990        1989        1990
Primary Education                     14.4       16.4       0.4         0.2
JSS/Middle Education                   -          6.0        -          0.2
Secondary Education                  244.2    1,274.0       7.3        16.8
Teacher Education                     9.9       221.6       0.3         2.9
Technical Education                   18.6      146.0       0.6         1.9
"'ocational Education                30.3       272.0      0.9          3.6
Specialist Teacher Training Education  81.0     237.0      31.4        34.2
Institute of the Handicapped         74.0        60.0       2.2         0.8
Higher Education                   1,038.8    2,594.2      31.4        34.2
Administation:
Ministry of Education (Hqrs.)        133.3      352.8      4.0          4.7
Ghana Education Service (Hqrs.)    1,479.0    2,136.0      44.7        28.2
Ghana Education Service (Reg.)       192.0      257.0      5.8          3.4
TOTAL                              3,312.1    7,573.0       100.0       100.0
Public Investment Program in Higher Education. 1989-90
((Z million)
1989                               1990
COMPONENT   CIVIL WORKS EQUIPMENT  TOTAL   CIVIL WORKS EQUIPMENT  TOTAL
1. UG                275.1         13.4      288.5       279.2        87.0       369.9
2 UST                 441.3        42.1      483.5       385.9        104.2      490.1
3. UCC               464.4         14.8      479.2       584.1        75.3       658.5
Total Universities   1,180.8       70.3      1,251.2     1,249.2      266.5     1,518.5
4. Polytechnics       39.7         7.1       46.8        113.6         8.3       121.8
S. Diploma Colleges   60.7         N/A        60.7       179.3         N/A       179.3
Grand-Total          1,281.2       77.4      1,358.7     1,542.1      274.8     1,819.6



- 52 -
ANNEX2&
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Unit Costs by Level of Education and Institutions
(1989/90)
INST.            ENROLMENT          ACTUAL RECURRENT            UNIT COST
EXPENDITURE            PER STUDENT
UG                          3,564                  C3.21b               ¢900,673
UST                         3,562     _2.49b                            C699,045
UCC                         1,483                 ¢O.99b                ¢667,565
DIP. COL.                   1,797             _ 527.87m                 ¢293,750
POLYS                       10,941               e269.53m                e24,643
TOTAL                       21,347       __               r            L           L
Source: MOE/IHED Internal Records.
Note:   Private expenditures are excluded from above costs (example catering students, pay for the inputs
in their course work).



- 53 -
ANNEX 2B-l
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Tertiary Intakes and Enrollments
H. ENROLMENT/ADMISSION
1.    Total/Distribution of Enrolment by Institution. Enrolment in the three components
during 1989 was 21,347.
Erirollment in Tertiary Institutions 1989
NUMBER OF PNSTrUTONS_  ENROLMENT
COMPONENT             1989          1990        1989     1990      1991
University                 3             3         8,609    11,502   13,124
Diploma                    7             7         11797    2,200    2,388
olytechnics               6             6         10,588   10,108      -
Total                     16             16       21,347
Source: MOE.
Note:       1.    The Relatively large part-time component in Polytechnics were converted
to then full-time equivalence.
2.    N.A.: Not Available.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2B-1
Page 2 of 6
3.   Enrolment by Discipline
Enrolment by Discipline in Tertiary Institutions 1990
DISCIPLINE        UNIVERSITIES       DIPLOMAS       POLYS   TOTAL   % TOTAL
Arts/Social Sc.            3,677                                   3,677         15.7
Agriculture                 783                             .       783           3.4
Business/Mgt.               534                .          2,835    3,369         14.4
Education                   921             2,316           -      3,237         18.8
Engineering                 844                -          7,211     8,055        34.4
Env. Studies                264                                     264           1.1
Fine Art                    327                           213       540           2.3
Law                         44                              -        44           0.2
Medical/Health Science      893                             -       893           3.8
Sciences                   1,371                          1,061    2,432         10.4
(Basic/Applied)                                        _
Renewable Resources         188                                  _  188           0.5
Total                      9,776            2,316        11,320    23,412       100.0
Source: MOE/HED G.E.S. Internal Records.



- 55 _
ANNEX 2B-1
Page 3 of 6
Admission Seiectivity Indices by Selected
Disciplines for some Tertiary Institutions
1989/90
DISCIPLINE                UG              UST             UCC         ACCRA POLY
Agriculture                      1:3             1:4              1:1       __-__
Arts/Humanities                  1:2       _      _1:1
Business/Mgt.                    1:4                               -              1:1.6
Education                                                         1:1
Engineering/Tech.                                1:2               -              1:1.5
Env. Studies               __1:3                                                            l
Law                              1:6        _
Medical/Health Sciences          1:5             1:4
Social Sc.                       1:8             1:6              1:4
Science (Pure/Applied)           1:2             1:2             n.a.             1:1.6
Fine Art                                         1:1                               -
Renewable Natural Resource                       1:3
Source: MOE/HED Internal Records.
Note: Accra Polytechnic is an Average of both Part and Full-Time Courses.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2B-1
Page 4 of 6
New Entrants and Enrollment by Faculties of Universities, 1989-90
New Entrants                   Enrolment
Faculty      Male  Female   Total  %      Male   Female  Total   %         Norms
1. Science Based
a. Science         548     111    659   16.6  1,319    232    1,551   16.3
b. Agriculture     159      26      185   4.7    495      71       566    5.9
c. Home Science     0       19      19    0.5     5       34       39     0.4
d. Medical Science    87    19      106   2.7    454      123      577    6.1
e. Engineering     182      6      188   4.7    675        15     690    7.2
f. E.D.S.           97      11      108   2.7    252      23       275    2.9
g. Coll. of Art     101     27      128   3.2    279      71       350    3.7
h. Ren. Nat. Res.   46      6       52    1.3    106       12      118    1.2
i. Min. & Mine Eng.  19     0       19    0.5    94        0       94     1.0
j. Pharmacy         44      17      61    1.5    161       47      208    2.2
Subtotal          1283    242    1525  38.4   3840    628        4468   46.9   655
2. Social Sciences
a. Social Sciences    881  246    1,127          1,933    555    2,488
Subtotal          881    246    1,127  28.5  1,933    555    2,488   26.2   25%
3. Humanities
a. Arts            529      167    696   17.6  1,000    351    1,351   14.2
b. Law              29      13      42    1.1    74       34       108    1.1
c. School of Admin.  196    37     233   5.9    444       79      523.   5.5
d. School of Comm.   22     10      32    0.8    22        10      32     0.3
e. Education        154     55     209    5.3    335      83      418    4.4
f. African Studies  5       2       7    0.2      7        2        9     0.1
g. Inter Affairs    7       2       9     0.2     7        2        9     0.1
h. R.I.P.S.         33      5       38    1.0    33        5       38     0.4
i. Performing Arts    26    16      42    1.1    44       27       71     0.8
Subtotal         1,001    307    1,308   33    1,966    593    2,559   26.9   10%
Number       3,165    795    3,960  100.0  7,739    1,776   9,515   100.0   100
Grand Total %     79.9   20.1    100            81.3    18.7    100
Norms                 50      50     100            50      50       100
- =   - - - - -       .        -               _ m



Full-Time and Part-Time Enrollment by Gender in Six Polytechnics, 1989-90
FULL-TM  STUENTS                          PART-TUMD
STUDEMf
__ _   -  r   I  I -         LTOTAL BY
NAME OF           I~rrr    ST YEAR 2ND YEAR   3RD           4TH        TOTAL          TOTAL            SE             RN  TOTAL
YEAR    YEAR        BY SEX          BY SEX
M  F M   FM  FM  F  M   F IM   F  M   F
kmnaaiPleytccbnic              404  104  125   41  28   4                S27    149      363     429    890    578            1468
Coau Polytechnc                66   28   38    5                          104    33      81       63    185    96             281
amalePolytxhnc               609    73 279   38        8 0  0           888    111      376     14    1264   125            1389
A    Pblytdechic               601  178  203   89   2   24   0   0    806    291    1060    S06   1866   797                  2663
HoNPyxschric                   374  165  176   61   18  44  20  17   588    287          4SS     106   1043   393             1436
akooadiFPblytchic            746  153  21S  92    0 0     0 0           961    245    1422    693   2383   938              3321
NATIO}KNAUL1TOTAL             2800  701  1036  326  48  72  20  17  3874   1116   3757    1811  7631   2927                  10558
0 w
00 z



- 58 -
ANNEX 2B-1
Page 6 of 6
Distribution of Diploma Awarding Colleges and
Enrolment by Gender and Region, 1989-90
NO. OF        ENROLMENT                             STUDENT!TEACHERRATIO
REGION/COLLEGE  COLLEGE                              NO. OF TEACHERS
Ashanti
K.A.T.T.C            2           269   39    308   31                     10:1
St. Andtewe                      164   9      173   18                    10:1
Regional Total        2           433   48    481   49                     10:1
central
A.T.T.C.                        437   90    S27   38                      14:1
N.A.M.                           173   36    209   22                     10:1
S.T.C.               4           120   88    208   42                     5:1
S.G.L.                           230   69    299   31                     10:1
Regional Total        4           960   283   1243  133                    9:1
Easter
C.S.E.                I           88    26    114   16                     7:1
Regional Total        1           88    26    114   16                      :1
National Total        7           1481  357   1838  198                    9:1
Note: K.T.T.C. - Kumasi Technical Teachers' College
St. Andrewe' - St Andrnw.' College
A.T.T.C. - Advanced Teachers' Training College
N.A.M. - National Academy of Muaic
S.T.C. - Specialist Training College
S.G.L. - School of Ghana Languages
C.S.E. - College of Special Education



- 59 -
AN9JEX 2B-2
Pag; 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJEC
Staff at Tertiary Institutions
III. ACADEMIC STAFF
1.    Total/staff distribution by component/qualifications. The total number of academic
staff in the sixteen institutions making up the tertiary system was 1890 in 1989.
Out of this 70% belong to the universities, 22% to the polytechnic aMd 8% for the
diploma colleges.
Distribution of Academic Staff by
Component/Qualifications
POST-        FIRST      DIPLOMA                    % OF
COMPONENT    GRADUATE    DEGREE               /ETC.       TOTAL       TOTAL
University           1168           165          -          1333        70%
Diploma College       38            121          5           164         8%
Polytechnics           8            86          299          393         22%
Total                1214          372          304         1890        100%
Note: First Degree holders in the Universities are National Servicemen.
Source: MOE/HED Internal Records.
Percentage Distribution of Academic Staff by
Qualification within Components 1989
COMPONENT   POST-GRADUATE   FIRST DEGREE   DIPLOMA/ETC.  TOTAL
University             87%                13%                -           100%
Diploma                23%                73%               4%           100%
College                                                                         |
Polytechnics           2%                 21%               76%           100%
Source: Computed from Table 1.5.



- 60 -
ANNEX2B-2
Page 2 of 4
Academic and Non-Academic Staff of Three Universities, 1989/90
Academie Units         Academic          Senior          Senior      Junior      Junior     TotW
.__________________    _____________       Adnin.          Tech.        Tech.     Non-Tech
Science                       203              14              67          141        147        572
Agdoulture                    137               9              38          52         162        398
Home Science                   6                0              1            3          5          iS
Medical Sciences              134              27              85           16        127        433
Engineering                   8S                7              37          91         264        466
E.D.S.                        67                0              9           10          62        148
College of Acts               67                3              7            19         35         131
R.N.R.                        3S                0              4            1          9          49
Min. of Mino En8.              19               3              2            4          11         39
Pharnmey                      41                0              10          18          17         86
Social Scienceg               186              19              23          62          83        373
Arts                          132              18              16          18          51        235
Law                            I1               1              1            7          6          26
School of Admin.              3S               15              IS          33          33         131
School of Comm.                S                0              0            4          1          10
Education                     62               22              27          67         106        284
African Studies                16               6              12          42          16         92
Inter Affairs
RIPS                           7                3              4           20           1         35
Performing Art                13                1              9            9          24         56
Subtotal                1,261             148            367          617        1,160      3,579
Research Centres           100              11             95           146        453        80S
Admin Support Units                        241             482         1,868      3,390      5,981
Grand Total              1,361            400               4        2,675       4,98S     10;65



- 61 -
ANNEX B
Page 3 of 4
Student/Academic Staff Ratio by Faculties of Three Universities, 1989/90
Faculty       Enrolment    No. of      S/S Ratio      FrE       FrE S/S      Norms       Remarks
Staff                  Students     Ratio
Science               1,551        203         8:1         1,489        7:1         12:1        (0)
Agriculture            566         137         4:1         S48          4:1         12:1         (-)
Home Science           39           6          7:1          37          6:1         12:1         (-)
Medical Sciences       S77         134         8:1         713          5:1         8:1          (-)
Engineering            690         85          8:1         644          8:1         12:1         (-)
E.D.S.                 275         67          4:1         284          4:1         12:1         (-)
College of Arts        350         67          5:1         346          5:1         12:1         (-)
R.N.R.                 118         35          3:1          112         3:1         12:1         (-)
Min. & Min Eng         94           19         5:1          84          4:1         12:1         (-)
Pharmacy               208         41          5:1         205          5:1         12:1         (-)
Social Sciences       2,488        186         13:1        2,43,       13:1         18:1         (-)
Arta                  1,351        132         10:1        1,322       10:1         18 1         ()
Law                    108          11         10:1         84          8:1         18:1         (-)
School of Admin.       523         35          15:1        523         15:1         18:1         (-)
School of Conmm.       32           5          6:1          32          5:1         18:1         (-)
Education              418         62          7:1         537          9:1         20:1        (.)
African Studies        9           16          1:1          9           1:1         18:1         (-)
Inter Affairs           9                                   9
RIPS                   38           7          5:1          38          5:1         18:1         (-)
Performing Arts        71           13         5:1          66          5:1         18:1         (-)
Total              9,515   |   1,261         6:1        9,517        8:1         15:1
in the Remarks Col. shows excess teaching capacity.



- 62 -
ANNEX2B
Page 4 of 4
Teawhing Staff by Qualification and Gender in Six Polytechnics, 1989-90
| Technician                                                 Grand
M.Sc./M.A.   B.Sc./M.A.   Diploma   Certificate    Others   Total by Sex   Total
JIlatitUof       M              M F  M  F  M     F     M     FM        F    M      F       m
Kumsi Polytlcic                       14      1   16   4    28    13               58    18       76
Cap Coat Polytehic                     6      0   S   0      S      0              14     0       14
Tamal Polyechnic                       6      0   10   0    49    5                65     5       70
Acca Polytclc                         18      8   13   8    24    4                55    20       75
Ho Polytemic            1      1       4      2   11   0    38    13               54    16       70
Tak i Polyechnic                      14      S   9   10    42      8              65    23       88
National Total          1      1      62      16  64  22 1_         43        0   311    82      393



- 63 -
ANNEX 2B-3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Scholarships/Bursaries/Loans Scheme for Students
1.    The Ministry of Education wishes to inform the general public, especially parents and
guardians of students in tertiary institutions and heads of tertiary institutions, that as indicated
when the scheme was first initiated an extensive review of the scheme has taken place. In
reviewing the scheme observations on implementation bottlenecks as well as various
representations received from individuals, institutions and identifiable groups were taken into
account.
2.    The Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) which administers the loan
scheme, and the Scholarships Secretariat which administers the Scholarships and Bursaries
Scheme will very soon issue detailed statements regarding the schemes under their purview.
3.    In the meantime the Ministry of Education would like to announce that during the
1991/92 academic year the following guidelines wi:l govern the operation of the Scholarships/
Bursaries/Loan Scheme.
(a)    Loans Scheme.  All students pursuing tertiary-level courses in any of the
underlisted public institutions:
3     University of Ghana
3     University of Cape Coast
*     University of Science and Technology
*     UST School of Mines, Tarkwa
*     Polytechnics (Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi)
*     Institute of Professional Studies (IPS)
*     Ghana Institute of Journalism (GU)
*     National Film and Television Institute (NAFTI)
*     School of Translators (GIL)
*     Ghana Law School   T
*     All Diploma-Awarding Teacher Training Colleges
bhall be eligible for a maximum loan of C80,000 from SSN1T except students
who are staff of organizations which do not contribute to the Social Security
Scheme. (Such organizations are advised to evolve their own schemes.)
(i)    Students on study leave with pay who are contributors to the social
security scheme shall be entided to 50 percent of the loan. Repayment
shall start immediately with social security contribution.
(ii)   Contributing workers pursuing approved part-time courses of not less
than 15 hours per week shall be entitled to 50 percent of the loan.
Repayment shall start immediately with social security contribution.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2B-3
Page 2 of 6
(iii)   Full-time workers on courses in tertiary institutions shall be entitled to
take a loan of IZ40,000 (i.e., 50 percent of the full loan). Repayment
will start immediately with social security contribution.
(iv)   Postgraduate students on scholarship shall have the option of benefitting
from a full loan for a maximum of three years.
(v)    Severely disabled students will have the option of taking the full amount
of the loan in addition to being granted scholarships.
(b)    Government Grants.   Government has reorganized and streamlined the
disbursement of grants through the Scholarships Secretariat. Grants in various
sums will be paid directly to relevant institutions upon the due submission of
audited lists of students to cover the following:
(i)    Long courses which are run beyond 32 weeks in any given year (C750
per student per additional week).
(ii)   Field allowances to cover transport and other costs during approved field
trips (e500 per student per week while on field trip).
(iii)   Seed money to enable institutions to procure essential kit and equipment
for sale to students in a restricted number of courses.
(iv)   Examination fees in respect of non-optional examinations set by bodies
external to given institutions will be paid at rates not higher than those
paid in respect of equivalent local examinations. For examinations
org, ized by the institutions itself the cost should be embodied in the
institution's annual estimates and claimed from the parent Ministry as
appropriate. No claims for internal examinations would be paid by the
Scholarships Secretariat.
(v)    thesis/project allowance (universities only) will be paid to completing
students at the following levels:
a.    Diploma students                        I2,500 per student
b.    Degree students                         I5,000 per student
c.     Graduate certificate/diploma/
1-year master's students               ¢8,000 per student
d.    2-year master's/M.Phil. students       C10,000 per student
e.    PhD students                           C30,000 per student
(c)    Scholarships. These are to be provided at the rate of e80,000 per student per
annum for the following categories of beneficiaries:
(i)    postgraduate students
(ii)    metit award for outstanding (top 4.5 percent) students in all fields
(iii)  severely disabled students.



- 65 -
ANNEX2B
Page 3 of 6
(d)    Bursaries
(i)    Full bursaries valued at QZ40,000 per anium will be awarded to all
students in good standing pursuing courses in areas deemed to be critical
for national development (see Schedule A attached).
(ii) Partial bursar valued at eZ2O,OOO per student per annum will be awarded
to all students in good standing pursuing courses in areas deemed to be
essential for national development (see Schedule B attached).
(e)    Bond. Government continues to bear the cost of tuition and the provision of all
institutional facilities. All students are therefore to sign bonds in respect of this
sponsorship. The implications of the bond are that the students would be
expected to serve the Ghana Government for a period of two years for each year
of sponsorship received or for a period of five years for sponsorship beyond two
years. To facilitate the implementation of the bond scheme all freshmen have
had certificates of sponsorship mailed to them for execution before reporting at
the institutions. Ongoing students who have received previous awards and have
therefore signed bonds need no sign fresh bonds if they are renominated for
scholarships during subsequent years.
(f)    The student funding scheme will continue to be subject to an annual review.



- 66 -
ANNEX2B-3
Page 4 of 6
List of Subjects in Critical wid Essential Areas
Schedule A                                       Schedule B
(fulL bursary)                                  (partfal bursary)
1.  Agriculture /a                                                          Engineering
2.  Science--pure sciences, maths, physics, chemistry, zoology, botany   Book ;ndustry
3.  Mining & mineral engineering                                            Rural art
4.  GeologicaL engineering/geology                                          Architecture
5.  Mining survey                                                           Pharmacy
6. Laboratory technology Et
7.  Education /c                                                            Medicine
8.  Mineral technology                                                      Home science
9.  Statistics                                                              Banking
10.  Adult education                                                         Accounting
11. Ghanaian languages
12. Mechanical engineering technician Part III /d
13. Electrical engineering technician Part 111 Ld
14. Construction technician Part 111 Ld
15. Dispensing technician Pbrt III /d
16. Motor vehicle technician Part III Ld
17. Renewable natural resources
18.  Comqputer science
Note: All postgraduate students will be granted scholarships.
/a Including agricultural economics.
/b Both polytechnic and UCC students.
ic All students in UCC and diploma-awarding teacher training colleges.
/d Polytechnic courses only.
cumu-
Cw _u-                     lative
No of                              Loan            Annual  lative Expected Expected  inter-
stu-            Dis-              out-            amount  dis-  interest interest est due
Aca-   dents   Loan   burse-  Amount  stand-  Calen-   dis-   burse-   from            from     from
demic   bene-  amount   ment   repaid    ing        dar    bursed  ment  students   Govt.   Govt.
year   fiting   (e)    (Ce M)   (e M)   se o       year    (e M)  (Ce M)   Ce M)    (e M)   (e M)
1988/89   7,322  50,000  407.5               407.5  1989       408     408      7.5      41.94    41.94
1989/90  11,235  60,000  658.6    80.1    986.0  1990   1,012   1,420    26.3    156.28   198.22
1990/91  13,088  72,000  889.6   223.2  1,652.4  1991   1.080   2,500   5U.6    312.56   510.78



- 67 -
ANNEX 23-3
Page 5 of 6
Scholarships Secretariat
Awards Made to Tertiary Institutions Since 1988/89 and Projections to 1996
Name of                               1989/90         1990/91      1991/          Projections        1995/
Institutions                       Eligible Awarded Eligible Awarded   92   1992/93 1993/94 1994/95   96
Postvoaduato scholarships  379     187    418      219     416      602     607      667    773
Univer it of Undergraduate scholarships   144   15    158              173      190     209      229    251
Ghana
(Legon)    Undergraduate bursearies   763       68    839       27     922   1.014   1,115   1,226   1.348
Undergraduate bursaHes     984       1  1,082    _        1,190   1,309   1,439   1,682   1,740
Univwrsktyof Postgraduate scholarships  123     40    135      135     148      162     178      195    214
Science &   Undergraduate scholarships   160    10    176       1 5    193      212     233      256    281
Technology  Undergraduate bursarles    1,122    11  1,234       10   1,357   1.492   1,641    1.806   1.985
(Kumasi)
IUndergrad. partial bursaries  1,094     1,203        -   1,323   1.456   1,600   1,760   1.936
Postgraduate scholarships   59      41      64      84      70       77      84       92    101
University of Undergraduate scholarships  65    19     71       15      77       84      92      101    111
Cape Coast Undergraduate bursarles   1,369      93  1,494       10   1.643   1.807   1,987   2,185   2,403
Undergrad. partial bursaries  nil   nil    nil      nil      nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Postgraduate scholarships    6   Forms       6      nil       7       8        9      10      11
were
UST School Undergraduate scholarships   13  bumed       14              15       16       17      18      19
of Mines    Undergraduate bursaries    256            281              309      339     372      409    449
Undergrad. partial bursaries  nil   nil    nil      nil      nil     nil      nil     nil
Postgraduate scholarships   nil     nil    nil      nil      nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
University of Undergraduate scholarships  11    nil    12       nil     13       14       15      16      17
Ghana Law
School     Undergraduate bursarles     n/a      nil   n/a       nil      nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Undergrad. partial buraarles    n/a  nil   n/a      nil      nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Scholarships                11       1      12               13      14       15      16      17
Accr i   Bursaries                     213       2    234              257      282     310      341    375
Partial bursaries           nil      2      nil              nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Scholarships                 6        -      6                7       8        9      10      11
Takoradli   Sursare                    113            124              134      147     161      177    194
Polytechnbc
Partia' burearies           nfl             nN               nil     nil     nil      nil    nil
Scholarships                11              12       3       13      14       15      16      17
Kuraoli    Bursades                    226            248       81     272      299     328      360    396
Polytechnic
Partial bursaries           nil             nil              nil     nil     ni       nf      nil
Scholarships                23              25               27      29       31      34      37
IPS ILegon) 8ursadec                    ni              n nil            nil     nil      nil     n       nil
Parial buraaHes           470             517              568      624     686      754    829
Ghana      Scholarhips                  13       2      14               1S      16       17      18      19
Institute of  Furnares                 n/a       7    n/a       nfl      nil     nil      nil     nil    nf
Journalim   Partial bumaries           n/a             n/a      nil      nil     nii      nil     nil    fl
Scholarships                 2       2       2       2        3       4        5       6       7
Schoolaor   8ursaHes                   n/a             n/a               nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Transistors
Partial bumaHes            n/aI            n/a               nil     nil      nil     nil    nil
Schoolof   Scholarships                 13      13      14               15      16       17      18      19
Languages  Bursaris                    n/a             n/a      nil      nil     nil      nf      nil    nil
(Ajumakol   Partial bursarHes          n/a             n/a      nil      nil     nil      nil     nii    nil



- 68 -
ANNEX 2B-3
Page 6 of 6
Nane of                                 1989/90         1990/91       1991/           Projections        1 11995/
institutions                         Eligible Awarded Eligible Awarded   92    1992/93 1993/94 1994/95   96
Scholarship                   2        1       2        2        3       4        6        6        7
NAFTI       uraades                     n/a              n/a               nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Partial burearies            n/a    _        n/a                nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
College of   Scholarships                  5               7                 8        9       10       11      12
Speoial     Burradres                    n/a              n/0     121      133      146      160      176     193
Education   Partial bunaries             n/a              nil      nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
National      Scholarships                 5               5        5        6        7        8        9      10
Academy of Bursaries                               nil    nil      nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Music       Partial burades                        nil    nil      nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Specalist   Scholarships                  10      10      11       11       12       13       14       15      16
Training    iursades                     n/a             234                nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
College
(Winneba)   Partial bunarieo             n/a              nil      nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Advanced   Scholarships                   27      27      32       32       35       38       41       45      49
Teacher
Training    6urnaries                    n/a              n/a      nla      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
College
(Winnebal   Partial buroaries            n/a              n/a      n/a      rill     nil      nil      nil     nil
Advanced   Scholarships                   12       12     13       12       14       15       16       17      18
Technical
Teacher's   Sureiades                    n/               n/a               ni       nil      nil      nil     nil
CoKueae     Partial buadees              n/a              n/a        -      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
St. Andrews Scholarships                   7        7      8        8       nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Training
Coilge      8ursariea                    nia nl                    nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Hampong)   Partial bumades               n/        nil    nil      nil      nil      nil      nil      nil     ni
Scholarships and Bursaries-Actuals
1990                    1991
I  28,845,000        IZ48,080,000



-69 -                       ANNEX2B-4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Educated Manpower. 1960 and 1984
PROFESSIONALS                     1960      1984
A - ENGINEERING                                   546       1,228
B - PHYSICAL SCIENCES                              38        229
C - ARCHITECTS/TOWN PLANNERS/SURVEYORS            232       1,429
D - BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES                           198        907
E - SOCIAL SCIENTISTS                             17         881
F - MATHS/STATISTICAL                              9         195
G - LEGAL AND OTHER PRACTICING PROFESSIONALS    491        10,085
H - ADMINISTRATORS/MANAGERIAL GROUP              4,029     16,902
I - MEDICAL GROUP                                 626       1,982
J - TEACHERS                                     1,445     13,283
GRAND TOTAL A-J                                  7,631    47,121
SUB-PROFESSIONALS                          l
A - ENGINEERING TECHNICIANS                      1,262     6,686
B - MEDICAL TECHNICINS                           2,950     13,586
C - BIOLOGICAL/AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIANS           385      14,641
D - AERCNAUTICAL/MARINE RELATED                    67       443
E - ARCHITECTURAL/PLANNING TECHNICIANS            339       3,365
F - PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS                      12,900    100,281
G - OTHER SOCIAL AND RELATED WORKERS                -      22,025
H - MASS COMMUNICATIONS/THE ARTS & RELATED          -      10,593
WORKERS                      _
I - CLERICAL & RELATED OFFICIALS                    -      42,519
J - SALES WORKERS                                   -       1,413
K - SECURITY/SERVICE WORKERS                        -      71,196
GRAND TOTAL                                      17,903    286,748



-70-                     ANEX2B4
Page 2 of 2
SKILLED
A - TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATION        1,050      17,625
B - BEAUTICIANS                        -        11,386
C - FORESTRY, AGRICULTURE AND        2,580     521,957
FISHERY WORKERS
D - ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONICS           2,237     29,680
E - MEDICAL                             -       22,572
P - SECRETARIAL                         -      105,584
GRAND TOTAL                         5,867     708,804



- 71 -
ANNEX 2B-5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF-iHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Graduat TraerStudy
a Study of Emloyed
Unemployed Graduates in Ghana
Report Prepared by
Z.K.M. Batse
Oware Gyekye
on behalf of the
Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research
University of Ghana, Legon
Ministry of Education, Higher
Education Division
August, 1992



- 72 -
ANNEX 2B-5
Page 2 of 5
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
The Report is based on a total of 1295 employed graduates and 257
unemployed graduates whose completed questionnaires were at hand at the end of April,
1992.
1.1   Background of Graduates
a.    Sex Ratio
There is a large preponderance of males over females among both the employed and
unemployed graduates. With 86.7 percent employed male graduates as against 13.3 percent
females and 93.4 percent unemployed male graduates as against 6.6 percent females.
b.    AU
Most of the employed graduates are within the 25 - 34 age groups being 96.4 percent
and 82.4 percent respectively.
c.    Subject/Course Combinations (subject-bias)
Five categories of courses/subjects (subject-bias) have been identified for the present
purposes. These are:
1. Physical Sciences,     2. Biological Sciences,
3. Administration/Commerce, 4. Social Sciences and
5. Liberal Arts.
Over 50 percent of the respondents were trained at Legon, 36.2 at Kumasi; 4.3 at
Cape Coast and 8.5 from the tertiary institutions in and outside Ghana.
The data indicate that graduates and diplomates in the social science and liberal arts
predominate in the country among both employed and unemployed graduates.
The percentages as obtained from the analysis shows the following trends; physical
science 25.3 percent; biological sciences 16.4 percent, administration/commerce 1 1.5 percent;
social sciences 28.9 percent; and liberal arts 17.1 percent.
Most of graduates in the physical sciences are products of the University of Science
and Technology whereas Legon produces most of the graduates in the social sciences and
liberal arts.
About 80 percent of the graduates have a Bachelor's degree (BA or BSc.) followed by
non-degree diplomas (about 12 percent) and a few post graduate qualifications.
1.2   Considerations in looking for job after graduation
It was found that among both the employed and unemployed graduates, the first
priority consideration was that the job must be related to university or academic training. The



- 73 -
ANNEX 21B-5
Page 3 of 5
next two considerations equally ranking very high, were prospects for further professional
training and specific salary.
1.3    Qpinion on the Job Market
About 85 percent of the employed and 85.6% unemployed graduates respectively
strongly agreed or agreed to one assertion that getting a suitable job depends on "whom you
know".
An equally large percentage of the respondents (12.0 percent) strongly agreed that job
seekers are often discriminated against on ethnic grounds.
A high proportion of them about (39.5 percent) disagreed that the subject
combinations studied do not meet the skill requirements of employers.
EMPLOYED GRADUATES
2.1   Ease of entry into the job market by emloyed grduates
The data indicates that 31.9 percent of the employed graduates obtained their first jobs
either before the end of their national service or work at the same place they did their national
service or within three months after the completion of their national service.
Altogether about 59 percent obtained their first jobs within five months of the
completion of national service.
About 12.2 percent have immediate employment because they were already on study
leave from existing jobs.
One fifth (20.1 percent) took 10 or more months to obtain their first jobs.
There is no significant difference in the proportion of graduates from the physical
sciences, social sciences and liberal arts who obtain their first jobs within 3 months of
completion of national service.
About 30.0 percent of liberal arts graduates and social sciences graduates respectively
too 3-5 months to obtain their first jobs. This compares with 17.0 percent of biological
sciences graduates, 13.9 percent of graduates in administration (management, accounting,
commerce etc.) and 26.7 percent of graduates in the physical sciences.
2.2    Distribution of employed graduates by sector
It was found out that the central government is by far the largest employer of
graduates (60.6 percent) followed by public boards and corporations 27.4 percent.
Large private businesses employ about 2.8 percent of the graduates.
2.3   Information flow about jobs



- 74 -
ANNEX 2B-5
Page 4 of 5
About 41.0 percent of graduates apply directly for jobs while 25.3 percent got to
know about the jobs through the news and print media: 9.3 percent through direct personal
contact; 5.5 percent through friends working at the same place/elsewhere, and 3.3 percent
through relatives working at the same place or elsewhere.
2.4   Work exerig=n
For 76.2 percent of the graduates current job is the first since the completion of their
national service. The graduates were employed for 20.6 persons-months and unemployed for
4.6 person-months.
2.5   Satisfaction with present job
For most employed graduates, the work they are currently d.ing is not what they
want. A corresponding 34.9 percent said the jobs they haver are exactly what they wanted.
For 45.2 percent ho'vever, the jobs meet only partially what they wanted and for 7.1 percent
the job is not at all, what they wanted. About 13 percent did not respond to this question.
2.6   Reasons for accepting jobs that they did not want
Most of the respondents (41.6 percent) stated that they had no choice but to accept the
jobs they are doing just for survival and meet financial obligations (18.6 percent).
2.7   Monthly incomes
A large proportion of graduates (88.5 percent) consider their monthly incomes as
'inadequate'. About 95 percent of employees of the central government considered their
incomes inadequate compared with 81.1 percent of employees with the public
boards/corporations. Only those working with international organizations or self employed
consider their salaries as adequate.
THE UNEMPLOYED GRADUATES
There is some evidence that unemployment is not always involuntary.
3.1   Servige was done
Out of the 257 unemployed graduates, 121 or 47.1 jprcent of them sought for full
time employment with such establishments while the remaining 136 or 52.9 percent did not.
An almost equal number of graduates from the other universities also sought for full time
employment with these.
Only a few graduates from the university of Cape Coast sought full time employment
because most are teachers who already have jobs waiting for them.
Also only 23.1 percent of the graduates who sought for full time employment at the
place they did national service were successful.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2B-5
Page 5 of 5
About 26.1 percent were observed to have worked before, since they finished serving
their national service. The remaining 73.9 percent had never worked before.
Out of the 257 unemployed graduates, 39 of them (15.2 percent) had been offered
some form of employment which they refused to accept. The poor salary offered was a major
reason for declining the offer. Another reason was that the jo+b was not related to their
academic training.
3.2   Duration of unemployment of currently unemployed graduates
The length of period graduates stayed unemployed since completion of their national
service ranged from less than 3 months to twelve months and above, with the majority (about
42.5 percent) falling within the longest duration. 94.5 percent of unemployed graduates had
made some effort to find a job in the last month before the survey began.
About 61.7 percent made efforts to find jobs during the last month before the survey
through writing applications; and 27.6 percent did so through direct personal contacts.
3.3   Reasons given by employers for not offering iobs
The two major reasons given by employers for not employing the ur.employed
graduates were: no vacancy, 58.9 percent and no experience, 14.6 percent.
3.4   Self employment
About half of the unemployed graduates considered'establishing their own business
while 45.6 percent did not.
Among those who considered establishing their own business more than 86%
mentioned financial constraints as a major obstacle to the implementation of any programme
they had in mind. Equally those who did not consider establishing their own business
attributed it mainly to lack of finances.
3.5   Financiol supgor
Parents only or parents and other relatives together provide most of the financial
support for the unemployed graduates.



- 76 -
ANNEX 30
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Letter of Higher Education Development Policy
Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning
P. O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
16th S&;ptember, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President, the World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, TJSA
Dear Mr. Preston:
GHANA - TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LEIEROF HIGHER EDU0ATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to you with regard to the proposed Tertiary Education Project, to inform
the International Development Association of the reforms that have taken place in the tertiary
education subsector since the start of our education reform program in 1987, and to outline the
further adjustments that will take place in this area over the coming years to ensure that tertiary
education will become a vibrant, mpulti-faceted system serving both the needs of a rapidly
expanding economy, and the aspirations of Ghanaians.
The reforms of the tertiary system were started under the first Education Sector
Adjustment Credit, supported through the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit and were
further elaborated in the 1991 White Paper on Tertiary Education.
Education has been central to Ghana's development effort. It has therefore been a key
beneficiary of the assistanwe under the Economic Recovery Program which has been implemented
with support from World Bank and the IMF. The implementation of the ERP has led to
improvement in the balar   of payments, sustained and substantial GDP growths, an
improvement in the private actor environment, and substantial increases in the budgetary
allocations for the social sectors, particularly for education.
The achievements in the educational system over the past five years have been
extraordinary. The structure of the system has been changed from a 6:4:5:2 (17 years) to a 6:3:3
(12 years); curricula and teaching materials have been revised and made more relevant;
educational input has been more readily available especially a. the basic and secondary levels.
A new cost-sharing system has been put in place to ensure continuous supply of books
and journals and educational materials, while freeing the institutions of non-educational concerns;
also considerable increase in effici'-ncy has been brought about ihrough an increase in student



- 77 -
ANNEN3X3
Page 2 of 4
staff ratio and reduction in non-teaching staff numbers, and rapid increases in intakes and
enrollments at all levels of education.
More specifically at the tertiary education level:
o     feeding subsidies were removed in 1988;
*     an innovative student loan system was introduced at the end of 1988;
*     and the semester system was implemented in all universities, polytechnics and
other tertiary institutions;
*     intakes into undergraduate courses have increased by 34.6 percent, from 3,344
in 1989 to 4,500 in 1991;
*     the number of non-resident university students increased from virtually none in
1989 to 2,651 in the 1991/92 acade,.Ac year;
3     overall student:academlic staff ratio increased from 6:1 in 1987 to 10:1 in 1991;
and 2,8(  out of 8,000 non-teaching staff have been redeployed since 1987; and
-     most importantly of all, a university rationalization study was completed, which
recommended the recognition of all post-secondary institutions as tertiary and
further rscommended that these should constitute a unified system  with
appropriate linkages to optimize services offered. These .nclude the three
universities, six polytechnics, seven diploma-awarding colleg, s (to be merged as
a new university college at Winneba) and around (60) post-secondary teacher
training, nursing training, and agricultural training colleges (which will be
merged into (10) regional colleges of applied arts, science and technology-
RECAAST).
The study also recommended the creation of apex organizations to deal with tertiary-level
admissions, accreditation and the conduct of technical and professional examinations. It finally
recommended the revamping of selected facilities to support the reform program. All these
recommendations were accepted by Government and embodied in the 1991 White Paper.
Though much has been done, much still remains to be done if the tertiary education
system is to become an engine for accelerated growth. Special efforts will have to be made to
protect the improved system to ersure a balanced development over the coming five or six years.
We realize that quality educational program offerings can only be achieved if enrollments do not
exceed the capacity of both existing academic and technical staff, as well as that of the existing
physical facilities. In fulfillment of the national policy of ensuring social justice through
education the opportunity of a particular age group to tertiary education must not fall to a level
lower than existed at the beginning of the reform. This is particularly important in the next four
years when there will be an intake from traditional and the new senior secondary school systems.
Enrollments and intakes during this difficult period are reflected in Table 1.
One of the biggest potential problems to be faced by the education sector in the coming
five years will be the tremendous pressure on government resources, from the successes of the



- 78 -
ANNEX"
Page 3 of 4
Table 1: Enrollment and hitake Projections
Yer. .           nonts
. .: iB.  .   :   .     i   , :         * :.. . . . . . . .
1992/93          4,500          14,500           2,500          10,500
1993/94          4,500          15,500           2,800           11,000
1994/95          5,500          17,250           2,800          11,000
1995/96         5,500           18,500           2,800          12,000
1996/97          5,500          19,500           2,800           13,000
1997/98          5,500          20,000           2,800           14,000
reform program and the demand that thus generates for access to further education especially at
the tertiary level. While recognizing this demand for larger numbe . Government will continue
to observe the proportional budgeted share of educational resources reaching 18.30% in 1996 and
20.61 percent by the year 2000, based on present projections. However, in order to remain
within these projections of educational recurrent expenditures, Govermnent will:
ensure that both universities and polytechnics comply with the approved student
staff ratio norms at the latest by the 1995/96 academic year, namely, 8 for
medicine, 12 for other science based subjects, 15 for education, and 18 for the
humanities;
*     ensure tiiat hostel fees will cover the full cost of running the hostel by the
1993/94 academic year. These fees will also include the annualized capital cost
of a hostel place; and
*     ensure that through a range of application, registration, and other charges, 5
percent of the tertiary academic recurrent costs will be borne by students by the
1995/96 academic year.
In order to mitigate some of these additional costs that will have to be financed by
students, Government plans to extend the student loan scheme, while at the same time ensuring
its long-term sustainability. Government has made an advance payment of QL.08 billion to the
Social Security and National Iizsurance Trust as a subsidy toward interest payments of student
loans. This is not likely to be exhausted until 1997 on present projections. A new injection of
an advance will be made between 1996 and 1998 when and if required.
It is also agreed that the bulk of the investment budgets to be made available over the
period for tertiary education will be devoted to the rehabilitation of existing facilities in the
tertiary institutions and that priority wIll be atached to projects which complement the capital
investments made under this funding proposal. In addition over the periods 1992 to 1995



- 79 -
ANNE2X 3
Page 4 of 4
inclusive, not more than US$4 million equivalent of Government's own investment resources (or
US$1.5 million in any one year) will be devoted to the new University of the North.
The main efficiency and quality improvement in the tertiary education subsystem will take
place through specific concrete actions at each of the 10 institutions covered by this first phase
of the reform program. The Governmeiit has thus reached agreement with all 10 institutions
(reflected in memoranda of understanding with the three autonomous universities) that:
(a)    by the beginning of the 1995/96 academic year all grades and types of junior
staff will not exceed 30 percent of full-time equivalent student enrollments;
(b)   in the 1992/93 academic year all libraries will be open for at least 90 hours per
week; and all classrooms, laboratories and workshops will be open at least 75
hours a week. In addition by the 1993/94 academic year centralized utilization
of all teaching spaces would have started;
(c)    by 1995 expenditures for library acquisitions (books and journals) will not be less
than 5 percent of total recurrent budgets or subventions for each tertiary
institutions; and
(d)   by 1995 expenditure on maintenance of buildings, plant and equipment at each
project institution will not be less than 5 percent of total recurrent budgets or
subventions for each tertiary institution.
Planning is under way to ensure that tertiary institutions, especially universities, have
adjusted their curriculum to enable them to take the graduates of the new senior secondary sclool
system in 1994. In all cases it will involve a complete overhaul of existing courses to bring them
in line with the development potential of the country and with new trends'in the SSS system.
During the period steps will be taken to thoroughly examine innovative schemes for education
delivery such as Distance Education and to set up pilot schemes which will enable Government
to improve the capacity of the system even further in succeeding years. During the four years
(1994-97), there will also be increased intakes into degree courses at the new university college,
and into diploma programs in polytechnics.
In order to ensure rapid and effective project implementation and disbursements,
Goverment is committed to providing adequate staffing to the Higher Education Division, and
support the creation of a common Project Management Unit to provide effective coordination for
all credits and grants to education in Ghana. Government is also committed to providing the
necessary counterpart funds.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main direction of our tertiary
education reform program over the next several years. We will of course be ready to provide
you with additional information as may he required.
Yours sincerely,
(signed)
Dr. Kwesi Botchwey
PNDC Secretary for
Finance and Economic Planning



- 80 -ANE3-
Page 1 of 2
_  = . e  = -=  = .._ =*=    
l _j_ _t_ _ 1 _ _ S.0 *1
g MLLII8I,I12~~~~~~~~.
#   g    X   h gN~~~ gi,
f~~~~ I  Ii I-i
l Z Wj S1_



OUi1E1W                 ACIN my momErNN                    191                1992               1993                S994               1995
PURMTO IM9
RW &AObMk4IwuySrai     Set VP                                                                                         wa9y em M
cIa   MM"sot owe.                                                                                                 WA . l
bma"l umbahmotowd6oft                                                            llAnts -                                           to&   
Wwuby                                 uigMwZa1 d         _s_toS    ____t
PadDy U11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                  I~~~~mcbi  90.                         = CuaaIad 
______ASED   _________p1, Dat aWdm _$                                                                _          b  p
3dtm omutime                                                                      Emkdwdoab&m Sam=lu
Ud"O2S% T                           b" anT 
mr  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wh _SS_ _
cu  amN   t.W  Etmt d                                                                                A~ldm e  dp              ahgaii
p.w, diw am o 7S ba omI
_G_ Fmd                                                 ~Og                                                    at   hMt
ah- _                                                                                                MMD -hiis
sch=D ponein VPh toen duxp
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _
WmE WM
_-Fwar         6.  go  e                                                                              mcd    -       1           p f n*
b=-W~~~~~~                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OC&t
SWAP=                                                JAMB twMicsUstum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z 



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCAT1ON PROJECT
Courses at the Universities and Polytechnics. 1992/93-1995/96
OUESTIONNAIRE FOR INTRODUCING NEW COURSE AT UNINVERSITIES
(1)    Program title
(2)    Type of accreditation required (select one)
a.  Initial accreditation
b.  Re-accreditation
c.  If re-accreditation is selected, indicate date of
initial accreditation, supported by evidence
(3)    Brief historical background (to cover institution and program of study)
(4)   Institution and Particular Establishment of the Institution to offer/offering
Program of study
a.  Institution
i) Name of Institution
ii) Date of establishment of Institution
iii) Name and qualification of Head of Institution
iv) Structure and organ zation of Institution
v) Faculty/College/Institute within which the particular Establishment
operates (if applicable)
b.  Faculty/College/Institute/Department
i) Name of Faculty/College/School/Institute/ Department (select
relevant one)
ii) Date of tst,blishment
iii) Name and qualification of Head
iv) Structure and Organization of Faculty/
College/School/Institute/Department (select relevant one)
(5)    Rationale, Goals and Objectives of the Program of Study
a.   Rationale
b.  Goals
c.   Objectives
(6)    Employment prospects of graduate and how they will fit into the country's
occupational structure (note: evidence is required from prospective
employers)



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 6
(7)    Requirements for graduation
a.   Total credits required
b.   Breakdown of total credits into major curriculum subdivisions
c.   Any additional requirements for graduation, eg. attendance requirements
(8)    Components of the Program of Study
a.   Required course(s)
b.   Elective course(s)
c.   Research component
d.   Practical training, internship, Clinical experience, etc.
e.   Semester-by-semester layout of courses, showing the credit value of each
course
(9)    Short description of courses in the program
(10)   Entry requirements for admission of students
(11)   Regulations governing assessment of students' mastery learning/performance
(12)   Academic and academic-support staff requirements
a.   Existing staff: academic and academic-support
b.   Additional staff required: academic and academic
support
(13)   Existing staff strength and competence
For each staff member, indicate:
a.   Name of staff
b.   Level of academic/professional training of staff, including
qualification(s) indicating awarding institution(s) with dates
c.   Additional qualification(s) required (if applicable)
d.   Teaching and other relevant experiences
e.   Course(s) in the program of study taught/to be taught
f. Other responsibilities: extra-curricular activities - institutional and non-
institutional
(14)   Details of existing staff current work load as well as anticipated work load
For each staff member and for each course taught indicate the work load
semester-bisemester as follows:
a.   Course(s) taught/to be taught
b.   No. of students taught/to be taught
c.   Contact hours/week



- 84 -
ANNX32
Page 3 of 6
i) lecture
ii) tutorial
iii) practical
(15)   Proposed staff development program to upgrade staff and/or improve
competence of staff.
(16)   Technical assistance required
(17)   Physical facilities (teaching accommodation) and teaching resource, etc.,
needed for mounting the program of study
(18)   Summary of financial requirements for mounting the program of study,
showing breakdown and total
a.  For Capitalization
i) Civil works
i.) Equipment
iii) Other T-aching Resource (e.g. audio visual materials
iv) Furniture
v) etc.
b.  For Technical Assistance and Training
i) Technical Assistance
ii) Overseas Training
iii) Local Training
c   Running Cost
i) Staff Salaries
ii) Maintenance of farm equipment
iii) Maintenance of workshop equipment
iv) Maintenance of office equipment
v) Library requirements and maintenance
vi) Academic operational expenses
(19)   Sources for meeting flnancial requirements
a.  Expected Government subvention
b.  Contributions from Income generation activities
c.  Endowment fund
d.  Other charges



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 6
CRAFT COURSES TO BE PHASED OUT
IIHE POLYTECHNICS
In the process of the up-grading of the polytechnics, the following Craft Courses
currently being run by the polytechnics are to be phased out:
1.    Welding and Fabrication                 (Advanced Craft)
2.    Block-laying and Concreting
3.    Carpentry and Joinery
4.    Painting and Decorating
5.    Plumbing
6.    Electrical Installation Work            (Course 'C'
7.    Furniture Craft
8.    Catering
9.    Fashion/Dressmaking



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 6
TECHNICIAN COURSES TO BE RETAINED IN THE POLYTECHNICS
lLL FURTHER NTllCE
1.    Agricultural Engineering Technician Part I and II
2.    Mechanical Engineering Technician Parts I, II and MI
3.    Motor Vehicle Technician parts I, II and III
4.    Dispensing Technician Parts I, II and m
5.    Electrical Engineering Technici.n Parts I, II and III
6.    Construction Technician Course Parts I and II
7.    Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Technician
8.    Science Laboratory Technician
9.    Diploma in Business Studies (Accounting Option)
10.   Diploma in Business Studies (Secretarial Option)
11.   Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICA) Intermediate
12.   Institute of Chartered Accountants (Final I and II)
13.   Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA)
14.   Institutional Management Diploma OMD)



- 87 -                           ANNEX3-2
Page 6 of 6
POLYTCHNICS
PROPOSED NW COURSES
NEW SUBJECTS/COURSES           ADDITIONAL    YEAR             LEVEL          SITE
STAFF
Marketing                        1               1992/93   H.N.C. Technician  A
Purchasing                       1               1992/93                       A
Statistics                      2                1992/93
Computer Operator Course        2                1993/94                       A
Business System Equip. Maint.   2                1994/95                       KT
Computer Hardware Maint.        2                                              AT
Radio/Electronics and TV        2
Metallurgy and Foundry          3                 '                            ATK
Instrumentation and Control     3                a                             ATK
Information Technology          3                U                             ATK
Industrial Design               3                a                             ATK
Dispensing Technology                                      HND                 K
Estate Management                                a         HND                 K
TOTAL                      28
LEGEND: A - Accra         K = Kumasi   T = Takoradi



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIAY EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Enrollments, 1988-2000
TETARY I - Ur ITES
YEAR         SSSW      PERTAGE                 YRI           TR2           TR3        YR4       YR$       YR6 TOTAL GRAD POST-CAD  TERTIARY I
(PASS)   hTAIKE                                                                                  ENRC&WENT EWhXMENT ENROLMENT
0         1            2                 3             4              S           6         7         a          9              10         11
1990            4.427                        3.660         3.166         2.711     1.228       112        85      10.962        540    1i1502
I99l            4.500                        4.475         3.477         2.691      1.220      553        50      12.466        658      13.124
1992            5.134                        4.475         4.251         2.955      1.211      549       249      13.690        913      14A03
1993            5.741                        4 475         4.251         3.614      1.330      545       247      14.462       1.168     15.6S30
1994           57.096               :.:::.=|5I0U          4 251         3.614      1.626      598       245      15,835       1.423     17.258
1995           59.877                        5500                          1         .626       732      269      16.966       1.678     18.644
1996           64.433                        5500          5.225         4           6         732       329      17.592       1.933     19.525
1997           62.666                        5.500         5,225         4.180       672       732       329      1;.,638      1.960     19.598
1998           69.068                        6,000         5.225         4.180      1.672    ' .669      329      18.075       2.008    20083
1999           76.123                        6.500         5.700         4.180      1.672      669  .V4 268:      18.988       2.110    21.098
2000           83.900                        7.000         6.175         4.560      1.672      669       268      20.343       2.260     22.603
2000/19921          1634                         156            145           154       138        122      too         149        248         155
e    NDTES.             1.      Proaectans for Tertiary Sector hove been prepared under four streams as follows:                                                                 1
a) Tertiary I  - Universities
b) Tertiary a  - Polytechnks
c) Tertiary llt - Dipbom  Awarding Institutions
d) Tertiary IV  - Teocher Training Colleges
2.     intake for 1992 ond 1993 hos been rlKed ot 1991 level ond then increosed to
5.500 students in 1994 oalow for leasble bulging in lirst double intake yeor of 1994.
Intake from 1995 to 1997 has been kept constant ot 1994 level. Thereafter.
it has been increased annually by 500 students.
3.      For projection pufposes, flow rate hos been ossumed equal to
95 S between the fhst and second year
4.     In taking into consideration second yeoa diploma groduotes, flot rote of                        85 X
is used between the second and the third year fnom 1990 to 1995 under the old system.
5.      Flow rote between the second and third year is assumed to be                       80  .
from 1996 to the year 2000 in the New System. .
6.      For students in yeor 3 onwards under old system, observed                45 % flow rate has
been assumed to toke account of differences in course lengths during 1990 to 199f                                                      0
7.     in the new system, fow rate for students in year 3 onwards is expected to reduce tc
40 2 because of new short term middle Level progrommes that are expected to be
introduced.                                                                                                                             0
8.     It is expected that post graduate enrolment wil grow gradually from its level oa                                                             w
of 5.014. of Tertiory I enrolment in 1991 to                   10 % of Tertiary I enrolnent                                             In
by 1997 when SSS3 graduates will be in their fourth year of tertiary educotion.
From 1992 and onwords, post-graduate enrolment is ossumed to grow at the
rate of                255 students per annum unU 1997.



TERTIARY 11- POLYTECHNICS
YEAR               YRI           YR2           YR3            YR4    TOTAL        PART         TOTAL
FULL        TIME
TIME
0            1             2              3             4             5           6          7
1988            2.751          1.488          370             38         4.647      4,551     9.198
1989            3.501          1.362           120            37         5,020      5.568    10.588
1990             1.741         1.732           486           131         4,090      6.018    10.108
1991                                                                     4,000      6.000    10,000
1992                                                                     4,500      6.000    10.500
1993                                                                     5.000      6.000    1 I .000
1994                                                                     5,500      6.000    11.500
1995                                                                     6,000      6.000    12.000
1996                                                                     7,000      6.000    13.000
1997                                                                     8,000      6,000    14.000
1998                                                                     9,000      6.000    15.000
1999                                                                    10,000      6,000    16,000
2000                                                                    11,000      6,000    17.000
INDEX
(2000/19921                                                                   244        100        162
NOTES              1.      Tolol enrolment from 1991 to the year 2000 has been fixed as in COLs. 5 and 6
for Full Time and Part Time students.
2.      Actual enrolment has been used from 1988 to 1990. (COLs. 1 to 7).
c 0
w
o 
uI. 



- 90 -
ANNEX 3-3
TERTIARY III- DIPLOMA AWARDING INSTITUTIONS (DAI I                     Page 3 of 5
YEAR        ANNUAL        SUPPLY OF    SUPPLY OF    ESTIMATED
DEMAND FOR    TEACHERS        TEACHERS    ENROLMENT
SSS TEACHERS    BY UNIV.         BY DAI        IN DAI
0             1             2              3             4
1992             1.188           588           600         2.100
1993             1,57.,          873            700        2.450
1994             1.'98           798           800         2.800
1995             1,625          825           800         2.800
1996             1.295           495           800         2.800
1997             1.321           521           800         2.800
1998             1.348           548           800         2.800
1999             1.375           575           800         2.800
2000             1.402           602            800        2.800
INDEX
2000/19921             118          102            133           133
NOTE'              1.      COL 1 is derived from Docunr.e.it Number 87. page 5
2.      Supply of teachers by Diploma Awording Institutions
has been fixed from 1992 to 2000 as in COL. 3.
3.      The difference in demand for teachers will be supplied
by the Universities (COL. I minus COL. 3) as shown in COL. 2.
4.      Total enrolment in Diplomo Awarding Institutions is estimated
by multiplying the output figures in COL. 3 by 3.5. The result
is presented in COL. 4.
STUDENT FLOWS BY LEVELS/TYPES OF EDUCATION IN GHANA. 1992 - 2000
TERTIARY IV - RECAAST INSTITUTIONS
YEAR        ANNUAL       ESTIMATED
DEMAND FOR   ENROLMENT
RECAAST    INRECAAST
OUTPUTS
0             1             2
1991                          18.500
1992             8,543       23.500
1993             8.523       25.000
1994             8.378       26.500
1995             8.009       28.032
1996             8.682       .0.387
1997             8,582       30.037
1998             8.809       30.832
1999             7.811       27.339
2000             a 028        28.098
INDEX
12000/19921             94           120
NOTE,              1.       COL 1 is derived from Document Number 87. page 20.
2.     In COL 2. estimated enrolment in RECAAST has been
fixed from 1991 to 1994 based on policy decision.
From 1995 and onwards. COL. 1 is multiplied by 3.5
to obtain COL. 2.
6



UNIVERSITIES, POLYTECIHNICS, DIPLOMA AWARDING INSTITUTIONS AND RECAAST
YEAR    UNIVERSITIES  POLYTECHINICS   DIPLOMA      RECAAST       TOTAL
AWARDING                  TERTIARY I
INSTITUTIONS                11 II & IV
ENROLMENT
0            1            2            3            4             5
1992           14.603       10.500        2,100        23,500      50.703
1993           15,630       11.000        2.450       25,000       54.080
1994           17,258       11,500        2,800       26,500       58.058
1995           18,644       12.000        2,800       28.032       61.475
1996           19,525       13.000        2,800       30,387       65,712
1997           19,598       14.000        2,800       30.037       66.435
-s      1998           20,083       15.000        2.800        30,832      68.715
1999          21.098        16,000        2,800       27.339       67.236
2000          22,603        17.000        2,800       28,098       70.501
INDEX
(2000/1992)          155          162          133           120          139
I.



PROJECTIONS OF ENROLMENT BY LEVELS/TYPES OF EDUCATION IN QIANA, 1992-2000
YEAR      PRIJARY        JSS           SSS         TERTLARY       TERTIARY      TERTIARY     TERTIARY   NON FORMAL      TOTAL
U            Il           IV
IFUL-TIME I
0           1            2             3             4              5             6            7            a           9
1992       2.235.501      641.609       253,895         14,603         4.500         2,100       23.500     270.000    3,445,709
1993       2.369.245      693.583       238.913         15.630         5.000         2,450       25,000     270,000    3,619,821
1994       2.492.507      749.253       219,041         17.258         5.500         2,800       26,500     400,000    3.912.858
1995       2.606.921      806,902       229.918         18.644         6.000         2,800       28,032     500.000    4.199.217
1996       2.693.813      867.136       244.129         19.525         7.000         2,800       30,387     800.000    4,664.791
1997       2.789,538      952.073       269.068         19.598         8.000         2,800       30.037     800,000    4,871,114
1998       2.892.831    1.027,149       296.555         20,083         9.000         2,800       30.832     750.000    5.029.250
1999       3.004.898     1.094.023      326.851         21,098         10.000        2.800       27.339     700.000    5,187.008
2000       3.125,274     1,131.368       360.241        22.603         11.000        2,800       28.098     710,000    5.391.384
2000/19921          140          176            142           155           244           133          120         263         156
NOTES,           1.    Data on lormal system of educotion is based on projections given in Tables I to 7.
2.    the number of learners to be covered by the National Literacy Programme is estimated
at 5.2 million from 1992 to 2000.
3.     270.000 tearners out of those enrolled in 1991 are expected to repeat in 1992.
4.     ndex of Crowith has been cakuated an the basis of data in 1992 and 2000.
5.     Tertiry I           -       Universities
Tertiary a          -       Poytechnics
Tertiary W          -       Diplokm Awarding Institutions
Tertiary IV         -       Teacher Trainng Colleges and RECAAST
oV



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-4
REPUBLIC OE GHANA
IERTIARY ElUCATION EROJECT
Staffing Norms
Departrnent                                                  Student/Teacher Ratio
Administration                                                   18:1
Agriculture                                                      12:1
Arts                                                             18:1
Education                                                        15:1
Engineering/Technology                                           12:1
Environmental Studies                                            12:1
Law                                                              18:1
Medicine                                                          8:1
Pharmacy                                                         12:1
Science                                                          12:1
Social Sciences                                                  18:1
Veterinary Medicine                                               8:1
Earth and Mineral Sciences                                       12:1
The current elaboration of junior staff projections agreed with the universities in the
Memoranda of Understanding will be operated until the mid-term review (end 1994 - 1st
quarter 1995). At that point the projections will be reviewed with respect to the continued
applicability of the target for all junior staff in the Policy Letter.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Unit and Total Recurrent Costs, 1990/91-2000/01
PROJECTED CtRENT COST PER PUP"  I T BY LEVELS/TTPES OF
EDUCAT0IM IN G(ANA. 1991 TO THE YEAR 2000.
tat 1991 pices)I
ER        PRIAARY        JSS           SSS          TERTIARY      TERTLARY      TERTlARY     TRTIARY   NON FORMAL
I             1            In           IV
0           1            2             3              4             5             6            7            8
1991          18.883       29,990        80,540        553,642        80,000        80.000       80,000       8,295
1992          18.858       30,172        78.258        596.232        94,333        94.333       94.333       8.295
1993          18,834       30.338        75,976        638,821        108,667      108.667      108.667       8.295
1994          18.814       30.492        73.693        681.411       123,000       123,000      123.000       8,295
1995          18,796       30.634        71.411        724,000        137,333      137.333      137,333       8.295
1996          18.002       29.493        69.129        724,000        151,667      151.667      151,667       8,295
1997          17.273       28.434        66.847        724.000        166,000      166.000      166.000       8,295
1998          16.601       27.449        64.565        724.000        180.333      180.333      180.333       8,295
1999          15.979       26.530         62.282       724.000        194.667      194.667      194.667       8.295
2000          15.402       25.670         60.000       724.000        209.000      209.000      209.000       8,295
-c
12000/19921          82            85            77            121           222          222           222         100
0         Source:  MOR
NOTE         I.     See Table 4 on page 4 of Document Kurmber 80.
2.     Unit Cost in Tertiory 1. DI. 111 and IV ha. been kept at 80,000 in 1991 and
gradually increased to 209,000 in the year 2000.
I. 
a4 .



PROJECTED CRUREN1 COSTS BY LEVELS/TYPES OF EDUCATION IN GIANA.
1992 TO TK YEAR 2000.
I In  millon at 1981 psica I
TEAR      PRARYT         iSS          BASKC          SSS         TERTIARY      TERTIARY     TERTIARY    TERTIARY    TERTIARY   NON-FORMAL   TOTAL FOR
EDUCATION                        I            II           III         IV       I+II.+WIV   EDUCATION     EDUCATION
0           1            2            3              4             5             6            7           8           9           10          11
1992         42.157        19,359        61,516        19.869         8.707          425          198        2.217      11.546       2,240       95,171
1993         44,622       21.042         65.664        18.152         9,985          543          266        2.717      13,511       2.240       99,566
1994         46,894        22,846        69,740        16,142         11,760         677          344        3,260      16.040       3,318      105.240
1995         49,000        24.719        73,718        16,419         13,498         824          385        3.850      18.556       4,148      112,841
1996         48,494        25.574        74,068        16.876         14.136        1.062         425        4,60S      20,231       6.636      117.812
1997         48,184        27,071        75,255        17,986         14,189        1,328         465        4,986      20.968       6.636      120,845
1998         48.024        28,194        76.218        19,147         14,540        1,623         505        5.560      22.228       6.221      123.815
1999         48,015        29.024        77.040        20,357         15,275        1,947         545        5,322      23.089       5,807      126.292
2000         48.135        29.042        77.178        21.614         16.365        2,299         585        5.872      25.122       5.889_    129,80x
am
2000/1992          114          150           125            109           188          542          295         265         218         263          136
'0
w
o .E



PROJECTED CtUtRENT COSTS BY LEVELS/TYPES OF EDtUCATION IN GIANA.
1992 TO HIE YEAR 2000.
_  In thmillionat 991 pvscusI
YEAR      PRIJARY         JSS          BASIC           SSS         TERiiARY      TERTIARY     TERTIARY    TERTIARY    TERTIARY   NOWFORMAL   TOTAL FOR
EDUCATMION                        I            II            I           IV       I.I1.IIIV    EDUCATION       A
0           1            2             3              4              5             6            7            89                       t           II
1992           44.30        20.34          64.64          20.88          9.15          0.45         0.21         2.33       12.13         2.35       100.00
1993          44.82         21.13          65.95          18.23          10.03         0.55         0.27         2.73       13.57         2.25       100.00
1994           44.56        21.71          66.27          15.34          11.17         0.64         0.33         3.10       15.24         3.15       100.00
1995          43.42         21.91          65.33          14.55          11.96         0.73         0.34         3.41       16.44         3.68       100.00
1996           41.16        21.71          62.87          14.32          12.00         0.90         0.36         3.91       17.17         5.63       100.00
1997           39.87        22.40          62.27          14.88          11.74         1.10         0.38         4.13       17.35         5.49       100.00
1998           38.79        22.77          61.56          15.46          11.74         1.31         0.41         4.49       17.95         5.02       100.00
1999           38.02        22.98          61.00          16.12          12.09         1.54         0.43         4.21       18.28         4.60       100.00
2000           37.08        22.37          59.46          16.65          12.61         1.77          0.45        4.52       19.35         4.54       100.00
2000/1992           84           110            92             80            138          397           217         194          160         193          100
It V
ItQf



CJRRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURE AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL CURRENT BUDGET AND GDP.
1991 TO THE YEAR 2000.
Atl 1991 Pricei)
YEAR        CURRENT        CURRENT         GROSS        CURRENT EDUC  CURRENT EDUC.
EDUCATION  GOVERNMENT    DOMESTIC             EXP. AS % OF    EXP. AS % OF
EXPENDITURE EXPENDITURE         PRODUCT    CURR. GOVT               GDP
IsMI          fM4)            (MI          EXPENDITURE
0             1              2               3               4                5
1991           85,854         231.105        2,949.000           37.15             2.91
1992           95.171         238,038        3,096,450           39.98             3.07
1993           99.566         245.179        3,251.273           40.61             3.06
1994          105,240         252.535        3.413.836           41.67             3.08
1995          112.841         260.111        3.584.528           43.38             3.15
1996          117,812         267.914       .3.763.754           43.97             3.13
1997          120.845         275,951        3,951,942           43.79             3.06
1998           123.815        284.230        4.149.539           43.56             2.98
1999           126,292        292.757        4,357.016           43.14             2.90
2000           129,803        301.540        4.574.867            43.05            2.84
INDEX
2000/1992             136            127              !48             108               92
gD.



-98-                            ANNEX 3-6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
-    -~~~ Pagel1of 4
TERTIARY EDUCAT-ON PROJECT
-          Student Loan Scheme
.       ? -*                                                 EMBASSY orO  GHANA
mumuse xo o^rc or rmis                I!L
Lg?Tg "UlOUt5  OUOse   I 0                                       2460 16 rm STRCCT, N. W.
OUR RcF. NQ                      . 99                            WA'HINGtON, 0. C. 20009
YOUR Rcvr. No.
August 21, 1992
Dear Mr. Berk,
Students Loan Scheme
This is to confirm the action plan of the government dasignated to
enable students to pay increased charges.
The plan involves increases in the SSNIT loan smuats made to students.
The specific alements of such loaus are the following:
(a)   for non-resident students, to cover up to 100l   of additional
imputed rent costs they incur,, starting in the academic year
1992/93;
(b)   for resident students, to cover up to SO  of student hostel
charges, starting in the academic year 1993/94; and
(c)   for all students, to cover up to lOO  of further increases in
charges, starting in the academic year 1993/94.
Yours sincerely,
Esi Sutherland-Ady (Mrs.)
P.N.P.C.
Deputy Secretary (bED)
Mr. David Bork
The World Bank



_ 99 _
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
raw= OF incViMm  MM 086u1                S ( %set - *610;- _mi     n        5
mA           Nu~zO. or         o A      .am                           2              m
C I       o Co000 I        a'i C 1   (Zm Cehl    {6 C N)
Devils           6.12s        5e0,008                   -             408.5       407.5
0/to           12,403        so,ooo       250.0            69.0      605.4       *77.
90/51          14.542        72,000        275.8          245.0      626.6    1,565.7
91/52          15,461        80,000       600.0        1,414.4    1,262.7      1,504.0
2/523          16,662        54,080        6°0.0       1,658.9    1,946,1       1,565.1
93.94          20,547       115.200         606.8      2,360.5    2,400.5      1,477.1
94159          24,2*2       136,240      1,064..     -2,140z  -1 ;S05.6        2,242.6
oil"           26,562       165,866      1,171.2       2,723.1    4,267.4      3,056.0
36157          26,557       159,064      1,265.4       4,624.0    5,66.$ 5      4,20.4
07/so          25,934       225,95S      1,417.2       6,462.2    7,029.5      5,557.7
6s/            21.431       283,264      1,555.0       6,470.5    6,457.3      7,4 4.2
5512000         33,002       202,7$4      1,714.5       7,75.7   I Y,12.9       9,055.4
2000/2001        34,652       346,167      1,666.4       6,951.3   12,234.4    13,143.7
200512002        24,2so       400,252     2,075.0        102630.6   14,712.3   17,516.3
200V2/003        32,204       440,431      2,252.5       11,541.3   16,971.4   22,546.3
200312084        40,115       464#474      2,510.7       15,792.2   19,577.7   26,321.6
2004oo205        42,10        5 22,522     2,761.8       15,530.0   22,52 4.7    24,956.5
2005/20o0        44,229       586,214      2,826.0       18,359.1   26,054.2   43,641.8
2086/2001        44,437       644,635      2,341.6      21,261.0   30,057.2    $1,447.7
2007/2006        46,789       708,321     3,276.0       24,544.9   34,476.0    61,576.8
20861205         S1,211      760,351      4,843.6       28,345.4   40,005.3    72,224.6
2009/2010        5S.7S7       826,276     4,447.5       22,742.S   46,154.5   o6,64S.6
_sa
1. 15M6UO   010/l9  62 RZS%V02           e UMS
2. 60. OF 820in1   VMMID 5?  FWS   @1 20or       82020K  1952/93 20 1997/15589
3. ZOO6 IAUOUa AMU292L 182M rMm 1092.
4. 0S   MOM  36.             (L2                            20.005 (1509192 - . 96/971
(±)                              15.085 (179se - 2001/02)
.lL)                             10.005 aRM  2002
S. a     m ZAL  6MoU             *                          0,0o0
S. aMML =MAO"    8Z"aw  5   *                                           10.00%
7. aVm   AIN= nsoRD ZS MWO mM
8. 51001 01 =AO                       4820  *                Is.00S
9. 1110foan       oF S 5    WA     _ WWUe2 SCO0U55A     *                 5.0%
10. 59013"9        or mz U  cog,~        MO  or baib.                     2.0,
U. usmon  Or _S S*1        z. 1220310o    -                   70.05
12. SI2=  AUIWMM  18    522212W. 523F   *                                           13,500
13. 3122& MIO4MOR 1    909-=31               $Z1L 12 3   *3                        1,00
14. coS=  e2 C                                                                        5AMS
*                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.S.N.I.?. 



- 100 -                                            ANNEX 3-6
'Page 3 of.4.
.                                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
AVVM= 221 3U_.13       13225  MMSI S@        T A   500 >WMS (1903- 2G10:)sZlNMIMM      1CUZI 0
UbCw         M5A IU       ZWZQ       cUITJIY 
cMN    AIIYI Mon           CMMZA^=Vg   =DlS  M8         MSQW        < SIIRSIS  SNSDS Ms
IhA       oDISJWISUD   053U352           VIDWOIIMS  51 PA       10M  "  * .         GM.- -
(C. K=Ou)  (C' NU.&b0M)   (c' N"iCu) (0C xazo  ) (@C IZS   (C' MH==OU)
lost            401           408             7.5       13.605       41.34         41.34
1og0          1,012         1,420            26.3      23.505       156.28        196.22
1931          1,060         2,500           52.6.       30.005-     312.S6        510.75
19V2          1,363         1,504           10.S       16.005      542.61      1,053.40
2333          1,346         156              33.0.      17.10%.-    437.07      1,430.44
194           2,453         1,677           105.3       16.205      476.46      1,966.94
13og          3,504         2,243           136.5       15.305     $53.85       2,526.60
13ot          4,57         3,057           173.6       14.405      662.61      3,203.40
1S97          5,860         4,230           235.5       13.505      625.47      4,034.67
l3og          7,030         3,655           301.6       12.605      365.24      5,000.11
l933          0,457         7,444           377.8       11.705    1,035.56      4,095.67
3000         10,173         3,653           473.6       10.605    1,231.31      7,336.95
2001         12,235        13,143          $53.6         3.305     1,372.54     8,699.5S
2002         14,712        17,516           756.2        3.005     1,512.41    10,211.92
2003         16,971        22,546           943.0        9.005     1,865.97    12,097.6
2004         19,570        28,332         1,156.0        3.005     2,316.00    14,413.69
2005         22,565        34,996         1,405.5        3.00%     2,011.07    17,224.96
2006         26,054        42,642         1,690.5        9.00%     3,361.05    20,606.02
2007         30,057        51,446         2,016.7        3.005     4,037.30    24,643.32
2005         34,476        61,573         2,394.5        3.005     4,792.92    29,436.24
2003         40,005        72,235         2,031.5        9.005     5,662.36    35,033.23
2010         46,155        56,646         3,332.4        3.005     6,664.88    41,764.11
1. SUMM  uRNini  MU MS 35 M AMU
2. oDmXRi     DISR   M      IS W PUZYAD.S  T-1 RA  TAS  35



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
@         ~            ~~~~~~~~~ ..
w,inu Ii sJU~   nz. ua v    mmui w w2sx.  ezo      v=
01.06  211.2M ML'  1M 3MU Ousll     - 0321m181  6vxIM10M
S           C             D           3            t            a           Z
70                     23 I. UI24S D       l        U.)   633 0  87 m         3t D  ,.07
S~~~~~~~~~~ CIl                                      D Pt3aS   FlItWU S16
1163~ ~~~~~~<113                    31,060 1.00        W      SUA         S
1161     1.603         212.34        41.34    1,251.30           0.00      3,125       11,073
1130    23.500         216.20        156.23    13.133.8          0.00     12,483       11.633
I131    *0.00o         414.34       313.56    1,494.20           0.00     14,342       12,315
1132    18.000         253.58       342.31    1,}230.4           0.00     15,401       12,825
1193    17.101         209.71       219.00    1,050.25           0.00     18,3S3       12,447
1934    &O.300         170.14       330.71       631.83          0.00     20,S47       14,140
11ss    1S.300         13U.1c       216.03       700.43          0.00     34,231       14,847
1916    14.403         100.37       264.35       435.02          0.00     2,3562       15.326
1137    13.503          35.72       415.13        77.SS          0.00     2M,57        164,26
13      13.600           3. 7       43.JS      (351.02)       351.02     33,324       17,167
11s3    1.703            .            _            -           45.833    32,431        18,047
2000    10.603                                                 4 7 -  474.89  33,002   13,343
2001    3.03             -            _            .           464.7S     24,853       11,649
2002     .003            -            _                        464.17     38,35        230,3t1
2003    3.00             -            _            _           57.56      36,204       21,328
2004    9.003            -            _                        594.47      40,114     32,022
2005    3.003            -            _                        657.43      42,120      34,164
3004    1.003            _            .                        727.u       44,226      23,333
2007     .00.            _                         -            04.25      44,427      26,463
o00     9.00             -            _            -           0636       46,75        27,334
2003    3.00             -                         _            34.11      51,17t      21,396
2010    3.003            --                                  1,066.66      53,75?      20,466
(1)      mmomY 0 S a6e   or _1.06t t 61  =War=  AT CR
VSVAZZ ssZA= _B 2Ar t .oDA
(2)  D      T Ul       S     l   nuhf SS_  o0;
m=r.LR            m   U     , aawUU01Z's mImi a 1937
W01   m ZDARnQl  1FOR 91530 VATHIM.            ZS a Ia
*   .                        MUW WUIE IMO Gllam=   u              .
*(2)  UUIU (r) MlW  T   AyOSZ nf*M  00  1M=M
GnmI Arm  so gUW2br    at Or bMMM .
(4)  M& 36W130M5 00UL 0W7I2X*UC s3 %R1S  W.S .N       10.
S.S.N.I.T.



- 102 -
ANNEX 3-7
BUPILICW HAN4A
Public Investment Prouram in Tertiary Education. 1992-94
(Z million)
INSTITUTION    PIP   IMPLEMENTATION    BUDGET                   BUDGET          BUDGET       TOTAL
CODE          PERIOD         ALLOCATION  ALLOCATION  ALLOCATION  1992-1994
1992           1993            1994
University of
Ghana         013/88           1987-94             859             42             427          1,718
U.S.T.         014/88          1987-95?            856             420             491         1,767
U.C.C.        01S/8&           1987-93            1,235            378              -          1,613
Diploma
Colleges       008/88          1987-93             333             200                          5 533
Polytecbnics   017M            1990-95?           1,087           N/A           v N/A         1,087+
University of
the North      018/90           1990-?             381?            N/A            N/A          381+
TOTAL                                             4,751?         1,430+           918+        7,099+
; .; _  ., . -                                                                                =,., .,  



- 103 -
ANNE;XAAL
Page I of 18
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TIERTARY ElUCATION PROJEC
Centrl Component: MIS Technical Assistance and Studies
1.    The office of the Project Coordinator will require an information system flexible enough
to enable him to track the entire tertiary reform project, both policy indicators and disbursements.
The time scale in which the project is implemented will also have to be taken into account. The
details which need to appear in the quarterly reports must be discussed, settled and included in
the package.
2.    The tertiary reform project is a US$50 million activity with IDA flnancing US$45 million
and Government of Ghana US$5 million. The funds which apply over the period 1992-97 cover
the following items of expenditure in the underlisted institutions:
*     civil works,
*     laboratory/workshop equipment,
*     textbooks, reference books and journals,
*     computers,
*     vehicles (saloon, pick-ups, 16-seater and 33 sector buses),
*     staff development (training: local and foreign),
*     technical assistance (ocal and foreign),
*     research (in universities only),
*     studies,
*     national boards,
3     project implementation unit.
(a)   the institutions are the University of Ghana, University of Science and
Technology, and University of Cape Coast;
(b)    Accra Polytechnic, Kumasi Polytechnic, Takoradi Polytechnic, Ho Polytechnic,
Cape Coast Polytechnic, and Tamale Polytechnic; and
(c)   the University College of Education at Winneba.
3.    In addition to the above, part of the Management Informat;on System should cover the
financial transactions covering the Project Management Unit, i.e., the incremental operating costs
of the Unit. A powerful on-line accounting package is required.
4.    There are also specific areas of the reforms which are of special significance to the
Project Management Unit and therefore need very close monitoring. These include:
(a)    application of staffing norms in the institutions;



- 104 -
ANNEX 
Page 2 of 18
(b)    application of financial norms in the institutions;
(c)    physical facilities utilization (ibrary, classroom/laboratory/workshop utilization
over time;
(d)    student numbers by course by sec (including non-resident/resident students);
(e)    annual agreed budget (government institutions) for both education and higher
education, and the percentage of the allocations in terms of nation.d budget
including the interest foregone on students' loans;
(t)   the expenditure on the University for Development Studies
The package should allow the office to monitor these.
S.    There should be four systems linked, i.e., networking:
(a)    personnel information system;
(b)    general accounting system;
(c)    students' registration system; and
(d)    government expenditure on institution system.
6.    The analyst should be able to design, text, install and train staff to run the system which
should be fully operational by December 1992.
7.    The cost of designing, installation, training and maintenance, including amendments, is
US$8,000.
Tenms ofpaymenrt
(a)    US$2,000 initially;
(b)    US$3,000 deigning and installation;
(c)    US$1,000 testing training; and
(d)    US$2,000 maintenance.



- 105 -
ANEX 4-1
Page 3 of 18
Management Information Systems Project
A.    Introduction
1.    The task of management and planning within the educational sector is rapidly changing
in nature, with several factors playing together to complicate issues. In the midst of dwindling
resources and other competing needs, there is the need to critically examine the operations of the
sector with a view to preparing it for the challenges ahead.
2.    One major component to such an attempt is the existence of an accurate up-to-date and
relevant management information system at the various levels: sub-institutional, institutional and
national levels.
3.    This is an attempt at developing a relevant MIS for the three universities that will link
up to the Ministry of Education (PBME).
B.    Objectives
4.    The main objective of this project is to assist in the design, development and
implementation of a Management Information System for the three universities in Ghana that will
link up to the Ministry of Education.
C.    Present Situation
S.    The universities have used computer facilities for various aspects of their operations over
the years. Most of these have been specific to the particular need and have therefore not easily
integrated with other subsystems. This makes it difficult for management to take advantage of
the information in its decision-making process.
6.    Planning units have been established in all three universities, and part of their functions
is to plan, design and implement a Management Information System for the institutions.
7.    In furtherance of this, the Ministry of Education has ordered a number of computer
facilities to be used in implementing the MIS. These are scheduled to be delivered by October
1992.
8.    There is therefore a need to develop and implement the software systems to ensure
maximum benefit through the most cost-effective way.
D.    Post-Project Situation
9.    At the end of the project, it is expected that an integrated on-line Management
Information System covering the major areas of university management would have been
developed and implemented to enhance management capabilities at all levels.
10.   Accurate, relevant and up-to-date information will thus be available for effective decision-
making at the sub-institutional, institutional and national levels. It is expected that in the long
run the facilities will be linked together in a network.



- 106 -
ANNEX 41
Page 4 of 18
E.    Strategy
11.   The United Kingdom universities have recently developed a Management Information
System under the Management Administrative Computing (MAC) initiative. Since the
educational system in Ghana is basically modeled on the typical British system the idea is to tap
the expertise developed in that exercise for the development of appropriate systems for the
universities in Ghana.
F.    Goal 1
12.   To examine the relevance and appropriateness of the software packages developed
recently in the UK to the Ghanaian situation/
G.    Activities
13.   Identify the areas of MIS that need to be developed in each university, prioritized.
14.   Arrange a demonstration of the relevant packages to members of the three universities.
15.   Examine the adaptability and flexibility of the systems.
16.   Agree on the systems that will be relevant for each university.
H.    Output
17.   A detailed description of the systems that could be adapted from the UK system with little
or no modifications.
I.    Goal 2
18.   To acquire the relevant packages for use in the Ghanaian universities.
J.    Activities
19.   Arrange visits of technical personnel from the three universities to visit the UK to work
under supervision of computer professionals, with a view to understudying the operations of the
systems.
20.   Acquire the appropriate packages.
21.   Adapt identified systems to local conditions.
22.   Identify other areas not covered in the above where UK experts could assist.
23.   Evaluate the adapted/developed systems.
24.   Arrange a visit of a computer professional from a software development house in the UK
to assist with any emerging problems.



- 107 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 18
25.   Develop user manuals.
26.   Train end users on the various systems developed.
K.    Output
27.   Software packages to cover the major aspects of university planning and management.
L.    Goal 3
28.   Provide further training to staff of the three universities to enable them to be self
sustaining in the design and development of subsequent systems.
M.   Outputs
29.   Six MA graduates in MIS or related fields for computer professionals and six practical
attachments in software development for computer professionals.
N.    Activities
30.   Provide training in MIS to master's degree level for computer professionals in planning
units and data processing center/computer centers.
31.   Provide professional training (including practical) attachment in software development for
two staff of the DPC/Computer Center, each for a period of three months.
0.    Inputs
32.   The details of the inputs required could be refined on consultation with appropriate UK
institutions. Before the exercise can start the ORACLE package would have been acquired for
the three universities ($100,000).
P.    Work Plan
33.   To be elaborated.
Q.    Funding
34.   The British Council and the Ministry of Education (through World Bank funding) are
prepared to bear the cost of the project.



- 108 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 18
Esdtmated Budget
(In Dollars)
Demonstraion (1)                   7,000 __ l_l_|   7,000
Study tour (9)              _    ____    60,000                     60,000
Pracilcal attachment (6)                   15,000  15,000           30,000
Masters' degree (6)           _      __   60,000  60,000           120,000
Consultancy (2)                             5,000          5,000    10,000
Software packages                100,000   100,000                 200,000
Air passage (24)                   1,000    16,000   6,000  1,000   24,000
.     ...                          bi'AA   .    .



- 109 -
ANNEX 41
Page 7 of 18
Ministry of Education
Technical Assistance for Joint Service Boards:
Joint Admissions and matriculation board
National Board of Accreditation
Board for Technical and Professional Examination
1.    Title and posts to be filled:
(a)    Adviser for the Establishment of Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board;
(b)    Adviser for the Establishment of National Board for Accreditation; and
(c)    Adviser for the Establishment of Board of Technical and Professional
Examination.
2.    Background/Justification:
(a)    As part of the tertiary reforms it has been accepted by Government that certain
boards should be established to provide joint services for tertiary institutions.
Three of the four boards which should be established without delay are:
(i)   Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB);
(ii)    National Board of Accreditation (NBA); and
(iii)   Board of Technical and professional Examination (BIPE).
(b)    Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board:
(i)   It has been recognized that, through JAMB, admissions into tertiary will
become more efficient and less costly for both the tertiary institutions and
candidates who apply for admission to them.
(ii)   Since each candidate will complete one admission form, candidates will
save money from buying multiple application forms.
(iii)   Placement of candidates who meet mninimum entry requirements will be
done with efficiency as a unified exercise through JAMB. The exercise
will also take into consideration manpower requirements as determined
by national policy and priorities in relation to national development.
Another factor to consider will be that preferences expressed or
otherwise indicated by candidates for certain institutions and programs
will be considered as a unified exercise by institutions concerned. With
the irminent graduation of students from the SSS system it is necessary
for work to proceed on the JAMB immediately.
(iv)   JAMB will have a permanent secretariat headed by an executive secretary
with the requisite technical personnel. Also, the Board will have three
functional units to cater to the diverse needs of the universities, the
polytechnics and similar institutions and the regional colleges. There is
need to clarify how these units will work both separately and together.



- 110 -
ANNEX 4:1
Page 8 of 18
(v)    The mechanism for joint admission in the tertiary educational system has
been the exception rather than the rule. Thus, the design of a feasible
system has to be worked out. The choice is between the JAMB acting
as a clearinghouse or selecting students on behalf of institutions. In
either case, institutional participation is essential.
(vi)   Technical assistance will be required in the design of a feasible system.
All the personnel to be involved in the work of JAMB will also require
training in operating the system, including knowledge of computer-based
admissions.
(c)    National Board of Accreditation (NBA):
(i)   It is recognized that the setting up of NBA would ensure the quality of
instruction and training given in any tertiary institution in the country.
Thus, it would be possible to ascertain the equivalences or otherwise of
certificates, diplomas and degrees awarded, both within the country and
outside it, and allow for possible transfers of credits from one institution
to another in the tertiary system.
(ii)   The practice of accreditation is not completely new in Ghana. The
erstwhile National Council for Higher Education (NHE) instituted an
accreditation system for the approval of new programs and new
departments before implementation.   However, the process of
accreditation did not lead to the establishment of equivalences to allow
for possible transfers of credits and easy recognition of qualifications,
particularly those earned by candidates outside the country.
(Mii)   Another important factor which was not stressed by NCHE is the concept
of peer evaluation and counseling as the key element in the accreditation
exercise. This concept will feature very much in the accreditation
program proposed for the cwuntry.
(iv)   Proposals on the structure, objectives, membership, functions and
conduct of the accreditation exercise have been approved by the National
implementation Committee for Tertiary Reforms. The Act establishing
the National Board of Accreditation is being awaited. After the
promulgation of the NBA Act the Board will have to be established.
This being so, preparations including specific guidelines will have to be
taken up to put the Board into operation. Technical assistance will be
needed for advice on the establishment of the board and preparation of
the operational guidelines.
(d)    National Board for Technical and Professional Examinations (NBTPE):
(i)    Currentdy, there exists a Technical Examinations Unit (MFU) of the
Ghana Education Service. The Unit is responsible for the conduct of
examinations for certain polytechnic programs.



- 111 -
ANNEXALL
r3b 9 of 18
(ii)   The plan is to expand the functions of TEU to include professional
e aninations of non-university institutions. When this is done and the
NBTPE is established, the Board will coordinate the examination of
candidates in the non-university sector of the tertiary education system.
The purpose is to ensure the maintenance of appropriate standards and
to see that equivalences within and between institutions exist.
(iii)  It has been recommended that in establishing the NBTPE knowledgeable
persons in the study areas concerned, and in the operations of such
national examinations, should be consulted. Relevant professional bodies
should also provide input into the setting up of the Board.
(iv)   In view of the above it is noticeable that the establishment and operation
of the Board involves complex decisions. Technical assistance to provide
advice on setting up the Board is needed.
3.    Objectives:
(a)    Immediate:
(i)    To advise on the establishment of the Boards.
(ii)    To advise on the operational structure of the Boards, particularly on the
organization of the various secretariats, and the type and numbers of the
administrative and technical personnel to run the secretariats.
(iii)   To contribute to the preparation of manuals dealing with guidelines for
operation of the Boards, secretariats and other functional units of the
Boards.
(iv)   To train the staff to carry out the functions of the Boards efficiently and
effectively.
(b)    Long Term: To ensure that the Boards will operate collectively to ensure the
smooth running and better management of tertiary education in the country
through proper coordination and streamlining of admissions, accreditation and
technical and professional examinations in the tertiary system.
4.    Specific Terms of Reference and Duties of Experts: The terms of reference and duties
of experts to be recruited are stated below:
(a)    For Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMH):
(i)    Review the admission policies of the three groups of tertiary institutions,
that is, universities, polytechnics and RECAAST institutions to find out
the similarities and differences in the admission policies.



- 112 -
ANNEX 41
Page 10 of 18
(ii)    Help the different institutions either in their various groups or as
institutions in the tertiary system to harmonize their admission policies,
as far as possible.
(iii)   Advise in the establishment of JAMH, its secretariat and other functional
units; also to advise on the staffing of the secretariat and other functional
units.
(iv)   Help the institutions to prepare for the operation of JAMB as a joint
service board in the tertiary system.
(v)    In the light of (i) and (ii) above, to contribute to the preparation of
guidelines to joint admissions and matriculation of candidates.
(vi)   Train personnel who will be directly involved in the admissions exercise
at the institutional and Board levels.
(b)    For National Board of Accreditation (NBA):
(i)    Study the proposal on accreditation as approved by the National
Implementation Committee on Tertiary Reforms.
(ii)   Suggest for consideration additional factors on accreditation that will
contribute to improvement of the proposals, in the light of their
suitability for Ghana.
(iii)   Advise on the establishment of NBA, its secretariat and its operational
mechanisms.
(iv)   Develop guidelines for accreditation exercise based on peer evaluation
and guidance.
(v)    Train the staff of the secretariat and groups of experts likely to serve on
panels to use the guidelines and test their validity.
(c)    For National Board of Technical a.J professional Examinations (NBTPE):
(i)    Advise on regulations on progression of candidates, to include:
a.     way(s) in which students can progress through a program, and
identify elements that are compulsory, optional or alternative;
b.     where attendance is compulsory for certain elements, details of
attendance requirements to be clarified;
c.     details of formal arrangements to monitor students' progress; and
d.    assessments which do not formally contribute to recommendation
for an award-to specify what form assessment should take.
(ii)    Advise on regulations on assessment for an award. Factors to note are:



- 113 -
ANNE& -1
Page 11 of 18
a.    basis on which students will be assessed for an award;
b.    all elements that should be assessed, including supervised work
experience,
c.    when and how each element will be assessed by internal and
external examiners;
d.    the elements which must be passed to obtain an award, and the
weighing each element must carry;
e.    minimum and maximum number of elements to be attempted;
also compulsory elements that should be attempted;
f.    criteria for recommendation of each award or level of award to
which a program may lead;
g.    regulations on reassessment after initial failure; and
h.    composition and terms of reference of Board of Examiners.
(iii)   Prepare a manual on Regulations on Progression and Assessment for use
by internal and external examiners.
(iv)   Train internal examiners and external examiners to use the Manual.
5.    Qualifications and Experience of Expert Required:
(a)    For Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board. The expert should have had
experience in the operation of joint admissions and matriculation of candidates
for admission into more than one set of tertiary institutions at the national level.
Also, the expert should be knowledgeable about computer-based admissions and
the organization of various measures, including examinations, for admission
purposes. Experience in a developing country will be an advantage.
(b)   For National Board of Accreditation. The expert should have been involved in
the work of a Board of Accreditation supervising as office of the secretariat of
such a Board with hands-on experience. Experience in determining the
equivalences between qualifications earned locally and in a foreign country will
be an import qualification required of the expert. A further requirement would
be familiarity with computer applications to the work of such a board.
(c)    For National Btard of Technical and Professional Examinations. The expert
should have been involved either as an internal or external examiner or both in
national assessment activities for programs geared to the education/training of
middle-level manpower. Advanced qualification in testing in particular and
educational measurement and evaluation will be an advantage.



- 114 -
Page 12 of 18
Manpower Survey
Terms of Reference
Background and Justification
1.    For nearly two decades the national institutional arrangements for assessing the nature
of Ghana's manpower and for projecting its evolution have become more and more feeble,
leading to the current situation where hardly any such structure exists.
2.    Consequent upon the above situation available data is scattered and restricted to very
specific activities of institutions on sectors which generate raw data or which call for a
rudimentary analysis of such data.
3.    The government commitment to reforming the entire educational system raised very
poignantly the question of lack of reliable, nationally collated data on manpower, and the absence
of institutional arrangements for continuous monitoring of the demand and supply of education
manpower as well as the lack of a coordinated policy analysis system for manpower-related
policies.
4.    While available information was sufficient to guide the MOE in arriving at a basis for
making broad fundamental changes in the philosophy and structure of education, fine tuning the
policy in a sustainable manner in the area of tertiary education has been and will continue to be
inefficient without increasing the national capacity to handle information on manpower trends.
The MOE has had to capture data from the major sectors based on sector plans and projections
and has also caused a study to be made based on the last population census of 1984.
5.    It is clear that a real impetus will have to be provided to galvanize the restructuring of
the national system. While this will inevitably provide critical data for a wide range of planning
activities, it is vital as a source of reliable data for the fine tuning and confirming fundamental
reforms being undertaken in tertiary education which is expected to respond much more
sensitively to changes in manpower requirements throughout the society and the economy.
Development Objective
6.    To assist the Government of Ghana (GOG) in strengthening its capability for the
planning, administration and implementation of manpower development policies and programs
with particular emphasis on tertiary-level manpower, thereby contributing to the efficient
utilization of the country's human resources and its overall socioeconomic development.
unmediate Objectives
7.    Review MOE Paper on Social Demand for Higher Education.
8.    Estimate size, structure and characteristics of current stock of middle- and high-level
manpower, including vacancies.
9.    Project medium-term needs and demand for skilled manpower with particular respect to
occupations requiring tertiary-level education and training, identifying any potential imbalances
between demand and supply and recommending appropriate policy measures.



- 115 -
ANNEX+_1
Page 13 of 18
10.   Identify and assess critical factors influencing the market for tertiary manpower, including
national development plans and policies: personnel policies (including incentive structure) in
public and private sector institutions; and recommend appropriate measures for correcting any
imbalances that may be due to these factors.
11.   Explore and identify areas of potential employment opportunity for job-seekers.
12.   Strengthen capabilities and coordination among national institutions involved in the
development of manpower and the utilization of human resources (e.g., National Development
Planning Commission [NDPD], Ministry of Education [MOE], and Ministry of Mobilization and
Social Welfare [MMSWJ), and design long-term policies for the development and implementation
of the modern functions of employment services including manpower planning at national,
regional, district and enterprise levels, employment market information and vocational guidance
and counseling.
13.   Strengthen the system and procedures for employment market information collection,
processing, evaluation analysis and dissemination as a precondition for efficient manpower
planning.
14.   Design and implement comprehensive training programs in all aspects of employment
services for appropriate staff of .clevant institutions.
Outputs
15.   Report on the size structure and characteristics of the current stock of middle- and high-
level manpower indicating critical factors including policy which influence manpower and
involving projections of medium-term needs and demands for such manpower; identifying
potential imbalances and recommending appropriate policy measures.
Inputs
16.   The planning and initiation of a program to strengthen instituticnal capabilities as stated
in the above. These will be determined in detail later but may include:
(a)    Personnel:  experts in manpower/labor economics, employment market
information systems and statistics; trainers and lecturers in manpower planning
and employment services.
(b)   Equipment: books and materials for training and operations for manpower
planning and employment services.
(c)    )taning:  overseas and in-country courses in manpower planning and
employment services for personnel in both public and private sector institutions.
nstitutional Framework
17.   The Project will be directed by the National Development Planning Commission (NDPC),
and implemented in collaboration with the Ministry of Mobilization and Social Welfare (MMSW),
the Ministry of Education (MOE), and Ghana Statistical Services (GSS). It will also involve



- 116 -
ANNEX 4:1
Page 14 of 18
other national-level public, private and other organizadons Involved in manpower development
and utilization such as Association of Ghana Industries (AGI) Employers' Association and Trade
Union Congress (IUC).



- 117 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 15 of 18
Study of Socioeconomic Backgror nd of Students
Terms of Reference
Brief
1.    Among the key goals of the Ghanaian Education Reform Program are the promotion of
equity and the sustainability of quality. These have resulted in cost-sharing policies which place
the burden of student maintenance on the students and their guardians. University education in
particular is experiencing the most fundamental change since it has since its inception in the
country involved full sponsorship of all students.
2.    Given the decision to apply the policy of cost sharing throughout the educational system
it has become necessary to devise various means of assisting needy students who cannot
supplement what they received from existing scholarship and loan schemes.
3.    The purpose of the study would be to map out the socioeconomic background of students
and to devise a means test that will work in the Ghanaian situation.
4.    Specifically consultants are expected to:
(a)   identify the modes of financing of university education (e.g., loan, self-financing,
parental, scholarship, etc.);
(b)    examine relationship between sponsors and student (e.g., employers);
(c)    examine economic and social characteristics of sponsors (both parental and
institutions);
(d)    estimate the level of support required by each student;
(e)   suggest and pretest system for identifying students who require special support;
and
(t)   suggest, given the financial constraints of Government, schemes for full
sponsorship of needy students.



- 118 -
ANNE 4-1
Page 16 of 18
Developing Fveasible Str&tegies to Increase
Female Particpation in Tertiary Education,
Particularly in Science and Technology
Terms of Reference
Brief
1.    The story of female participation in education in Ghana is by and large similar to others
worldwide. Generally there is lower participation of females than males. The ratio of females
decreases as we move up the educational ladder with a high dropout rate among girls aged 8-15
years. Also typically, fewer females are found in science and technology throughout the system
while there are pockets of concentration in the field such as catering, dressmaking, the arts,
nursing, etc.
2.    The Government of Ghana's Education Reform Program, individual institution of higher
learning, as well as the National Council of Women and Development (NCWD), and a number
of non-governmental organizations have sought over the past 12 years to intensify formal and
informal programs to change the patern described above. Currently, two key policies are being
applied as part of the Educational Reform Program:
(a)   the entire school curriculum is gender-neutral; and
(b)   the goal is to arrive at 50-50 female/male participation in all subject areas.
3.    At the tertiary level, female participation currently ranges from 46 percent in teacher
training to 22 percent in the polytechnics and 19 percent in the universities.
4.    Institutions are employing diverse means to encourage female participation. Statistics,
however, show that out of all eligible candidates for university education, for example, only
about 25 percent are female.
5.    Instilutions are therefore very much limited currently because of the small pool of eligible
candidates.
6.    It is obvious that special interventions are required at the pre-tertiary level not only to
encourage more females to complete both first and second cycles of education but to guide them
into a broader range of fields, especially in science and technology.
7.    A study is therefore required to match data with current policies and activities, and map
out feasible strategies to increase the total number of eligible females for tertiary education,
especially in science and technology.
8.    SpecIicaly, the consultants will be expected to:
(a)    collage data on female participation in education with existing policies of the
Ministry of Education as well as governmental and non-governmental
organizations on this subject;



- 119 -
ANNEXLI
Page 17 of 18
(b)   isolate the main problems of implementation;
(c)    build case studies of successful interventions in the Ghanaian context;
(d)   highlight key strategies which could be pursued over the next 5-10 years,
indicating major players and partnerships, possible mode of organization and
costs;
(e)   ensure that policymakers and key players are brought together in a workshop on
the proposals in (d) above with a view to assessing their feasibility and
committing themselves to the main policy thrust; and
(f)   assess the willingness of the donor community to commit funds to a special 6-12
year drive aimed at increasing significantly the pool of females eligible for
tertiary education, particularly in management, science and technology.



- 120 -
ANNEX 41
Page 18 of 18
Income Generation in Ghana's Tertiary Institutions
Terms of Reference
A Brie
Ihe three Universities of Ghana have been engaged in income generation activities since
government encouragement to them to do so as a means of supplementing their subvention (White
Paper 1989).
These activities were to be undertaken without detriment to academic output.
Government wishes to review its decision by an assessment of those activities already in
operation and by assessing the feasibilities of those yet to be undertaken.
A study is required therefore to do the following:
Terms of Reference
The study will among other things
1.    Assess the current financial position of each university.
2.    Outline critical areas of underfunding.
3.    Determine the viability of university functions for income generations.
4.    Assess present levels of fee income and determine adequate fee-income levels,
taking into consideration socio-economic background of beneficiaries.
S.    Evaliuate university activities already commercialized to generate income or to
become self-financing.
6.    Make recommendations for review of Government policy to encourage tertiary
institutions to diversify sources of income.
The consultants are required to present technical and financial proposals including a
workplan, for consideration by the PNDC Secretary (Higher Education).



- 121 -
amia 4-2
ZI?BL OC 0F ORa A
UM!RY ZDUCATION PROJC$
Tom Or              cot,i TO 
ana                   -iba yxteL                                                       1.24                       0
Coma l1actoe te -te                   celetios                   1 715                      e
toa-reideat feOllitLes                Now                        0.423                      0
otudeat hostel ,eSciltel              New                        0.322 
Zoonooca                              lebabiUtati,               0.241                      o
Aguiceltu,e                          fle,eAIsitati               0.206                      0
Xudael school sanitation              ReoVatis                   L
4.720
solet.e S            L*ba                                     e                        1.n7          so
bechology            studeat hostel faciltes                                          0 111 
P       easma ey                      Rehabilitation             0220 0o
Umn-g.sident tfaUilties               Now                        0.636                     30
hsaiet  buildig                       Rebabilitio                0.643                      0
UiOloGioal science                    Rebabiit otiu              LIM                        0
4.060
Cap Coast            wou-geaideotial facilitiee            Now                         0.342                     0
tudent hostel faoilites              yew                        0.226                      0
Scenae faeulty                       RebabilLtation             1 132                     65
acte faaulty block                    Coletion 1e .00a                                     s0
Socia science bloak                   CoeletAon                  XI2U
3.994
Sub-total Univresstie                                           12.L74
5orixa    science Bloack                        C-letLon                    0.226
tbziha   (snefusbisbng S atesLoa)   RehabIiteti.                 0. *243
SaLtation facilities                  ino                       0L020
0.43S
MEo&                                                             0.263     0.430
Cape Coast                                                       0.290    0.136
3o                                                               0.466     0.629
Zuasi                                                             1.73     1.741
Takoradi                                                         0.552    0.430
feSale                                                               a         0
Sub-Total Polytechnic.                                           aO 
TO se M



- 122 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                     ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 3
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Institutions: Laboratory, Workshop Eauinment
and Eauinment Maintenance
INSTITUTION               FACULTY/DEPARTMENT                  COST      TOTAL COST
($'000)         ($'000)
EQUIPMENT - SUMMARY
UNSVERSITIE8
Ghana                                                           1,700
science & Technology                                            4,167
Cap. Coast                                                        884
Sub-Total                                                       6.751
POLYTECHNICS
Accra                                                             755
Cape Coast                                                        544
Ho                                                                635
Kumasi                                                            677
Takoradi                                                          648
Sub-Total                                                       3.259
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
Sciences and Languages                                            200
TOTAL COST (Current Prices)                                    10.210
15% Spares                                                      1,530
TOTAL BASE COST (F.O.B.)                                       11.740



- 123 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 3
INSTITUTION                FACULTY/DEPARTNENT                   COST      TOTAL COST
($'000)          ($'OO0)
UNIVERSITIES
Ghana                      Agric Science                         225
BiochomLstry                         149
Botany                               353
Mathematics                           24
Nutrition/Food Science               254
oceanography                          93
Physics                               93
UGMS                                 400            1,591
Social Science                        42               42
Modern Languages                      56
music                                 11               67
Sub-Total                                                         1,700
Science & Tchnoloov        Biochemistry                          134
Biological Sclences                   59
Buildlng Tech                        740
Chemical Eng                          47
Chemistry                          1,026
Civil Eng                            274
Electrical Eng                       301
Mechanical Science                   239
Pharm. ChemLstry                     266
Pharmaceutices                       278
Pharmacology                         298
Physics                              272            3,934
Art                                  233
Sub-Total                                                         4,167



- 124 -
Page 3 of 3
XSSTZTUTSON                FACULTY/DcEPARATHE                  COST       TOTAL COST
... __'OOO $000
CaDg coas                  Botany                                106
Chemiatry                            245
Physics                              160
zoology                              163              674
education                             73
XEPA                                  12
Sociology                             12               95
Arts                                 l1S              115
Sub-Total                                                           884
TOTAL UNUVRSITZSX                                                 6,751
acira                      Electrical Eng                        101
Civil eng                            146
Mechanical Eng                       251
Applied Science                       30
Catering/Hotel Mgt                    30
Business Studlos                      46
Refrigeration                         30
accounting                            24
Radio/TV                              37
Furniture                             60
Cape Coast                 Surveying                              29
Civil eng                            146
Electrical eng                       101
Mechanical Eng                       251
Science Lab                           17              LA
92                         Agricultural Eng                      191
Mechanical Eng                       221
Electrical Eng                       116
Buildlng/civll Eng                    16
Catering/Hotel Hgt                    24
Fashion                               67
Kumali                     Mechanical eng                        161
Caterlng/Hotel Mgt                    30
Duildlng/Civil                        59
surveying                             96
Faahion                               83
Forging/WeldLng                       40
Dispensing Tech                       40
Electrical eng                       106
Furniture Design                      60              6
nkoradl                    Mechanical Eng                        251
Science Lab Tech                      54
Plunbing/SanitatLon                   51
Caterlng/Hotel Mgt                    30
Electrical Eng                       101
Fashion                               60
Welding/Forging                       25
Maintenance                           16
Furniture Design                      60              La4
Total Polytechnics                                  3259



- 125 -
ZNSTZTMG3NW                                         OUTOWUAU
lnattule-uen 0..ttt.k    ibr rw 7ournal.
ad fllfar eno float
9AUs 2ETOOM
ahi                              Lior"                            100
3eo.h.op                         11
Total                            135
LOeaiun  S Gechnology              Slb:aqy                          378
TO%&&                            440
Cape eoaet                         Library                           74
olkaabp                          ai
Sotga                            t
5ub-Total Vm±versitt m7
Uh1DI.am  OLOS                     Library                           30
Dooahop                          20
Sub-Total Uoiversity Colle o
&car &
Cape Coast                                                           33
so                                                                   47
Takoradi                                                             57
Tamale                                                               76
Sub-total lolytehihnOa                                              "I
:-AD SOSIAZi                                                       114
tosrun     o                                                oo
:tztiIt?mov                                              cs
Woo)}
IDRARY JOUR S AND R2_ NAIRIAL
Ghana                                                               700
sience , t..bnology                                                802
Cape Coast                                                          748
Sub-Total VnLvo..LtL. ran
Acra                                                                127
Cape  Coast                                                          55
so                                                                   75
MmaLi                                                               113
Takoradi                                                            115
Samb                                                                104
sub-Total Polyteao 
GR    tOAM  TOA
Lirary                   soak 1    Ia S satudat(20/100 students)
Book 2    1$15 student( 7/100 student.)
beok 3    13    s    wttvdat( 7/100 students)
Sookbmp                  baook I    1.10 student(10i120 atudent.)
143/100 atudanta)
Core Textboak* - Library                                 1011
-  ookahapa                                137
ourals and Reference Mateials                            29500
USX cost



- 126 -
Peg. 1 of 2
SYTAYB ? SSTABA 1*O3L.
A.s MO * OARON
IWSTITUTIOu         366      464   *RSRSSR    UpS            364      464    PRINTSR   USS         TOTAL
(Unit Cost ())                                                2000      3000     1000      1000
N0O                      4                  2        2        12000        0      2000     2000      16000
ACCRIOZTATZO3            1                  1        1         2000        0      1000     1000       4000
JaS                     1         1         2        2         2000     3000     2000      2000       9000
3STP                     1                  1        1         2000        0      1000     1000       4000
TOTAL                   9         1         6        4       16000      3000      6000     4000      33000
SOWIWARN        10 VP, 10 Lotus, 10 D-3..., 10 windows                                               12000
TOTAL                                                                                                _SOOO
S. UUIV3S!Y135
1. CRITERIA
I             * for central adainaitxatioa
2             3 tor library
3             pull provision for *olnCe-based. with a few exc-ptlone
4             5 for social scienoo and *rt. faeulties
S             pull Provision for coaputar pool
6             OGit deprtment4l (adal)
2. CONPOUNTs
==_      UZ         _ *          _                  __ COSTS
STAB/                                    STAB/
ZUSTSTUTIOU         366      486    PR131nS    UPS           36U       464   PRWSZ       UPS       TOmAL
(Vant Cost (6))                                               2000      3000     1000      1000
UST                    62        43        29       29      124000   129000    29000    29000    311000
V5                     96         9        39       39      196000    21000    39000    39000    301000
UCC                    65         0        23       23      130000         0    23000    23000    176000
TOTAL                 225        52        91       91      450000   156000    91000    91000    706000
SOftWARE        330 UP, 165 Lotus, 165 D-8Sa., 330 Window. + otheg                                  416000
03332 TOTAL                                                                                        1206000
C. POLTYECUXSe
1. CRITERIA
1          2 for oentral adaLLaittation
2          20 for lusLnese Studies
3          10 for bardvaro roepair/aint.nancae cesun



- 127 -
2.  COMPONENT                                                                                             AINNX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
________  UNITS          _ _  _  _ __ _ _ __COSTS_ _ _ _ _ _
STAB/                                    STAR/
INSTITUTION         386      486    PRINTER    UPS           386      466    PRINTZR    UPS        TOTAL
(Unit Cost ($))                                               2000      3000     1000      1000
Aora                    32                  9        9        64000        0      9000     9000      82000
Cape Coaat             22                   5        5        44000        0      5000     5000      54000
Ho                     22                   5        5       44000         0     5000      5000      54000
Kusaci                 32                   9        9        64000        0      9000     9000      82000
Takoradi                32                  9        9        64000        0      9000     9000      62000
Tezalo                 22                   5        5        44000        0      5000     5000      54000
TOTAL                 162         0        42       42      324000         0    42000    42000    408000
SOFTVAtA         135 WP, 75 Lotus, 75 D-saa-, 162 Windows                                           106000
TOTAL                                                                                               514000
GRAND TOTAL (BASS COST)                                                                            17    °



- 128 -
IM    I   r  m                                           mx &.A
ow~~~mui ow mia,
mUSA                                               COSTI
XITS1flSOU                     CM       PIC=-1UPi4WO   MM (15)   3UJ (33)         CAR       PC=-UP      3u3 (15)       MM18 (33)          TOMS
UnIt coset ()                                                                       16.00-0     22500         2S000         31000
mg                                  3                4                              45000       90000             0              0           135000
aoreditation                        1                                               15000           0             0              0            15000
nufm                               1                                              15000            0             0             0             15000
Izaalnationa                        1                                               15000           0             0              0            15000
Sub-Total Central                   6                4           0          0       0000       90000             0              0              0soooo
Ghana                                                1           1          1                   22500         25000         35000             62500
Snin  a  T.bnology                                   1          1           1                   22500         25000         35000             63500
Cape Coast                                           1           1          1                   22S00         25000         35000             62100
Sub-TotaL  ALvorte                                   3           3          3                   67500         75000        105000            247500
Aeora                                                1                      1           0       22500             0         35000             57S00
Cape coat                                            1                      I           0       22500             0         35000             57500
Io                                                   1                      1           0       22500             0         35000             $7500
Mmai1                                                1                      1           0       22500             0         35000             S7S00
Takorad.                                             1                      1           0       22500             0         35000             57500
TaMal                                                1                      1           0       22500             0         35000             57500
Sub-Total ab LyteAom s              0                6           0          6           0      135000             0        210000            345000
OMWD TO=TTi                         6               13           3          9       90000     292500          7S000        315000            772500



- 129 -
ANNEX 4i
Page 1 of 6
REUBLIC  GHANA
TEARYUAInQN PROJECT
Institutions: Staff Development
I}ackground
1.    As part of the tertiary reforms a higk. degree of effective management and administration
is expected throughout the tertiary system. This applies therefore to the institutions in the system
and the Ministry of Education.
2.    At the level of the Ministry of Education the organs actively involved in the
implementation of the tertiary reforms are the Higher Education Division and the Project
Management Unit of the Higher Education Division. Also, in furtherance of better management
of tertiary education it will be required that the processes for admissions, accreditation and
professional and technical examinations are streamlined and improved. It is for this reason that
the following bodies are being established:
D     Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board;
3     National Board of Accreditation; and
*     Board for professional and Technical Examinatiens.
3.    All the officers of the administrative division unit and boards mentioned above will need
training and the right type of orientation to provide support at the center for the tertiary
institutions to function effectively and efficientiy. The training anticipated for the officers and
the allocation of funds are indicated below.
Eternal
(a)    Attachments for five top officers of Higher Education Division  $....  52,000
(b)    Attachments for four top officers of PMU/HED/MOE  ....  ..... $41,600
(c)    Attachments for six top officers of Boards ..... ............. $62,400
Total ..................................  $156,000
Local
Seminars/workshops for middle-level management personnel .... ...... $44,000
GRAND TOTAL  .......................... $Z0.
4.    Table 1, cost table, follows:



- 130 -
ANNEXIAl
Page 2 of 6
Mlnfstry of Educatfon
Officers of H.ED/MOE, PMU/H.ED/MOE and Boards
Staff Development
Allocation: S200,000
rXusntltIes                    (11S...... X .,
.B.:    .E                       X    v   *   W       w   Co#t tt.  ...  :.-.. .  ............
E^t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ui                                                                   gran
1.Attachments for S top officers of   m/rn  10  10Q            20  2.6   26.0  26.0    -       52.0
HED/MOE
2. Attachments for 4 top officers of  rn/r    8   8              16  2.6   20.8  20.8   -        41.6
PMUl/NED/MOE
3. Attachments for 6 top officers of  rn/r   12  12   - 24  2.6   31.2  31.2                     62.4
boards
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... _..._   _    _ _
Subtotal                                                           7  8.0  78.0t       156.0   78
Local                                            _                
Md dle-level management personnel   p/l   40  30  18   88  0.5   20.0  15.0   9    44.0
seminars & workshop                                                                   
Subtotal                                                           20.0  15.0   9    44.0   22
=~~ ~   ~                             --   -         -\m -g       -                           - x    4    r  E X w X 



- 131 -
ANNEX 47
Page 3 of 6
Universities
Staff Development
Allocation: $500,000
Background
1.    The importance of upgrading the administrative, academic and academic support staff of
the universities cannot be over-emphasized. There is a need for faculty renewal through
retraining of existing staff. The retraining program will take the form of:
(a)    upgrading courses overseas for administrative and academic staff;
(b)    workshops and seminars on New Approaches to Teaching and Research for
academic staff;
(c)   refresher courses for academic support staff; and
(d)    overseas conferences to be attended by academic staff. Approval will be limited
to science/technology/development-related conferences.
Allocation of Funds
2.    A total amount of $500,000 is earmarked over the 3-year period for staff development
in the universities, distributed as follows:
(a)    150 man/months at US$2,000 a month, that is, a total of US$300,000 for
upgrading courses overseas for administrative, technical and academic staff;
(b)    US$80,000 set aside to support workshops on New Approaches to Teaching and
Research in the universities;
(c)    US$50,000 to support refresher courses tor academic support staff, particularly
technical staff; and
(d)    approval for attendance at conferences will be limited to science/technology/
development-related conferences. US$70,000 will be set aside for conferences.
3.    Table 2, cost table, follows.



- 132 -
ANNEXA4-7
Page 4 of 6
Univereftfes
Staff Denltment
Aloes tion:    1         Un0 000
Exterwl_
Upgrading courses overseas for        m/m  60  45  45   150    2   120    90    90   300    60
technical admfinistrative and
academic staff
Local
a. Worksbiops and seminars on New        p/w  60  50  50   160    5    30    25    25    80    16
Approaches to Teaching and
Research
b. Refresher courses for academic        p/w  40  30  30   100    5    20    15    15    50    10
support staff
Conferences
Attendence at Science/Technology/   m/m   6   4   4    14    5    30    20    20    70    14
Development-related conferences/
workshops/seminars
Tht',.:t<: 20  .................0....... C:R:: ...Xi..150   .................................. QoG



- 133 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 5 of 6
Polytechnics
Staff Development
Allocation: $1,300,000
Background
1.    Information available shows that most of the staff in the polytechnics are not qualified
to teach up to the HNC/HND levels. Only 94 out of the 393 academic staff are qualified to teach
at the levels indicated above. This means that the majority of the staff, numbering 299, will
require upgrading to be able to teach in the polytechnics.
2.    The staff development program, which will be made up of overseas courses and local
full-time courses as well as workshops and seminars, will be geared to updating and upgrading
the knowledge and skill base of the majority of the staff to first-degreo level, to enable them to
teach at the sub-degree diploma level. Those with postgraduate and first degree will also require
further training plus industrial attachment for practical experience.
3.    It will be necessary to upgrade some of the staff to advanced degree level so that they can
serve as counterparts in a work-study training program that will be mounted for the bulk of the
staff with support from technical assistance.
Allocation of Funds
4.    External Training. US$774,000 is allocated to external training. The distribution is as
follows:
(a)    2-year programs for 10 tutors (240 m/in) ...... .......... $480,000
(b)    3-year programs for 3 tutors (108 m/m) ....... .......... $216,000
(c)    3-month short courses for administrative and technical support staff . $78,000
Total ....  $774,000
5.    Local
(a)    Upgrading of 16 tutors in local institutions for a total of 576 m/m  . $346,000
(b)    Workshop for tutors (in-service training) ....   $90,000
(c)    Workshop for laboratory technicians and workshop assistance ....  $9,000
Total ....  $526,000
6.    Details of the distribution of US$1,300,000 set aside for staff development for
polytechnics are shown in Table 3:



- 134 -
ANNEX 47
Page 6 of 6
Staff Development
Allocation:  S1,300,000
External
a. 2-year programs for 10 tutors         rmn  120 120   -  '40   2.0 240.0 240.0          .   480   37
b. 3-year programS for 3 tutors          m/m   36  36  36  108   2.0  72.0  72.0  72.0   216   17
c. 3-month short courses (for            m/m   12   9   9   30   2.6  31.2  23.4  23.4    78    6
administrative and technical
support staff)
Subtotal                                                       343.2 335.4  95.4   774   60
Local
a. Upgrading of 16 tutors                n/m  192 192 192  576   0.6 115.2 115.2 115.2   346   26
b. Workshop fur tutors                   p/w   60  60  60  180   0.5  30.0  30.0  30.0    90    7
c. Workshop for lab. technicians and   p/w   60  60  60  180   0.5  30.0  30.0  30.0    90    7
workshop assistants
Subtotal                                                       175.2 175.2 175.2   526   40
t t ..            ;. m1 - e-..       



- 135 -
ANNEX 48
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Institutions: Research Funding
BACKGROUND
A major contributory factor to the paucity of research conducted in the universities has been
identified as inadequacy of the funding. Research institutes have been provided with the
barest minimum of funding which covers only operating costs. In teaching departments,
while commissioned research is on the upsurge in a few areas, the universities have generally
been unable to fund basic research and publications which form critical prerequisite for
assessing the quality of work in the institutions. This condition has adversely affected the
provision of retsources, like equipment, materials, and journals to support the research effort
by the staff of the Universities. One serious consequence of this state of affairs has been an
unhealthy staffing configuration with a very broad base of lectures and a sharp pinnacle of the
professorial rank. In order to reach the desirable position according to national norms
everything must be done over 5 - 10 years to improve the situation.
Approved and Existing (1989/90) Chart
**APPROVED          ***EXISTING         ACTUAL
STAFFING CHART  STAFFING CHART  NUMBER OF
____ ____ ____ STAFF
PROFESSOR                1                    1.6                 63
ASSOCIATE                1                      1                 39
PROFESSOR                                                                      l
SENIOR                  3                     6.7                263
LECTURER                                                                       l
LECTURER,               5                    23.0                896
ASST. LECT. &
OTHER
SOURCE:    **    Development, Design and use of National Digests for the Three
Universities and the Tarkwa School of Mines, 1989/90 (PMBE
March, 1992)
***   Projections of Students, Teachers and Costs of Education in Ghana,
1991-2000 (PMBE December, 1q91)



- 136 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 3
It is also necessary for adequate research facilities and resources to be provided for an
enhanced post-graduate program. Currently, post graduates constitute only 8% of the student
population. This is definitely detrimental to the growth of university programs and to their
relevance.
To ensure an upsurge of research activities leading to:
a.    upgrading of staff;
b.    strengthening of post-graduate programs;
c.    improvement in the general quality of academic output.
A special research fund of US$1 million is being proposed.
NATURE OF RESEARCH FUNDUS$1 million is being proposed.
1.    The fund will be a common Endowment Fund for the universities.
2.    Total amount to be invested US$1 million.
3.    Plans for investment -
i.    Purchase of government bonds expected yield 16%
ii.    Sustainability of scheme without replenishment 10 years.
iii.    Maximum individual grant C 5 million.
iv.    Maximum group/interdisciplinary grant (US$ and over) a: 20 million.
v.     Maximum special equipment grant 50,000 USD.
The secretariat for the Fund will be located in the office of the Secretary to the National
Implementation Committee for Tertiary Reform.
MANAGEMENT OF RESEARCH FUND
The Research Fund will be managed by a Committee with the following membership:
1.    Chairman - to be appointed by Government (a prominent citizen knowledgeable about
applied and innovative research).
2.    Pro-Vice-Chancellor  -     University of Ghana        -      Member
3.    Pro-Vice-Chancellor  -     University of Cape Coast   -      Member
4.    Pro-Vice-Chancellor  -     University of Science and
Technology              -      Member



- 137 _
ANNEX"t
Page 3 of 3
5.    Director-General    -      C.S.I.R                   -      Member
6.    Chief Director      -      Higher Education/MOE      -      Member
7.    Investment Specialist -    Merchant Bank (Ghana)     -      Member
8.    Project Officer     -      Programs & Training       -      Member/
PMU/HED/MOE                      Secretary
CRITERIA FOR AWARDS
The following criteria will be used to determine research which should be supported from the
fund:
1.   the research should be relevant to Ghana's socio-economic development;
2.    the research proposal should be of high quality and have a high probability of
producing results within a 1-5 year period;
3.    the research should have the potential of making a significant addition to the field of
knowledge and/or being immediately applicable;
4.    the university/applicant/interdisciplinary group should have the expertise to undertake
the research.
USE OF AWARDS
Funds provided for carrying out research should cover:
1.    equipment and materials;
2.    transport as well as out-station accommodation and meals; in well justified cases
transportation should include travels within Africa;
3.    maintenance and fees for support staff;
4.    publication and dissemination of the end product.
SELECTION OF PROCEDURES
The management board will appoint ad hoc panels of experts as and when required to advise
on projects submitted.



- 138 -
AN=X 4-
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Institutions: Technical Assistance
University Teaching and Learning Improvement Prograzen
Title and Post to be Filled
1.    Staff Development Adviser
Background
2.    The staff of the universities rely very heavily on lecture as the method of instruction.
During lectures students assume a passive role since the teaching-learning process is teacher
dominated. The very limited participation of students in the teaching-learning process militates
against effective and efficient learning.
3.    But the need for in-service training for the staff of the universities on different approaches
to university teaching other than the lecture was recognized in the 1970s. However, the program
could not be sustained because of lack of a dynamic institutional base for the program.
4.    Recendy, however, the universities have begun to show concern about the quality of
teaching in their institutions. It is known that th  University of Ghana has obtained some videos
prepared by the staff development unit of the Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals of
the UK to help introduce new forms of teaching to the staff. The two medical schools organized
a workshop on teaching methodology recently, and as a follow-up, plan to establish a medical
education unit within each school to support staff development programs for effective teaching.
Equally important is the effort being made by the Institute of Technical Education of the
University of Science and Technology (UST) to organize a trainer of trainers workshop to prepare
facilitators for staff training seminars.
5.    The interest shown so far in training the university staff on new approaches to teaching
would be enhanced through technical assistance.
Objectives
6.    Immediate:
(a)    Enable staff to:
(i)    be conversant with more effective modes of instruction other than
lecture. Effective modes of instruction should emphasize the problem-
solving approach to learning;



- 139 -
ANEXA-2
Page 2 of 10
(ii)   use effective assessment techniques by developing the ability to set
relevant and high-order questions;
(iii)   understand what is involved in continuous assessment and use it as a
contributor to the teaching-learning process;
(iv)   accept that the subject matter of instruction continues to undergo changes
and improvement, and hence the need for staff to upgrade their
knowledge in subject matter; and
(v)   realize that research contributes to the upgrading of knowledge of staff.
(b)    To incorporate the factor of student experience into assessment in order to:
(i)    enable each university to set up a staff development unit; and
(ii)   strengthen the University of Cape Coast (UCC) to provide courses in
higher education pedagogy.
7.    L4ong Term. The long-term objective is to improve the overall quality of the teaching
staff.
Specific Terms of Reference and Duties of the Expert
8.    The expert will be expected to:
(a)    assist the universities to establish an operational structure, both at national and
institutional levels, within which university teaching and learning improvement
activities will take place;
(b)    assist in the training of trainers, made up of selected staff of the universities, who
will implement the university teaching and learning improvement program at the
institutional level as well as the national level;
(c)    assist in the planning and organization of workshops and seminars for staff
improvement;
(d)   liaise with the universities, individually and collectively, in the organization of
subject matter for teaching purposes; and
(e)    assist the universities with the introduction of a valid and reliable scheme of
internal assessment in the various discipline areas.
Qualifications and Experience of Expert
9.    The expert should have had considerable experience in implementing innovative programs
at the university. The person should have rich experience in the pedagogy of a specialized
subject area. Previous experience in organizing a university teaching methods scheme,



- 140 -
ANNEX 4-9
Page 3 of 10
particularly In a developing country, will be an advantage. The expert should preferably have
a doctorate qualification, with curriculum and instruction as a major field of study.



- 141 -
ANNEX 4-9
Page 4 of 10
University of Ghana: Technical Assistance In Curriculum Development
To Support University Programs of Study
Title and Post to be Filled
1.    University Curriculum Development Expert.
Background
2.    The universities in Ghana have embarked on curriculum development. The objective is
to restructure/reform their courses of study to meet the requirements of national development to
prepare for admitting senior secondary school (SSS) graduates in the 1994/95 academic year.
This is in line with the directives contained in the White Paper on the Reforms to the Tertiary
Education System, which stipulate that all tertiary education institutions be required to:
(a)    periodically review all programs and courses with a view to upgrading and
ensure continued relevance to national net Is;
(b)   introduce new programs and courses in relation to national development
priorities, as required;
(c)   rationalize existing programs and courses within the institution as a whole as
required; and
(d)    make provision for practical training by attachment of students to industry or by
working within appropriate income-generating activities of the tertiary institution
as required.
3.    In formulating programs to meet the needs of the SSS graduates, and even the A-level
candidates whom the universities have been recruiting all these years for study, it is anticipated
that additional/new programs can be cowstructed by restructuring or reforming existing programs
offered by the universities. Furthermore, it should be noted that the process of curriculum
development should be seen as a rather exhaustive one, whose outcome of improved,
restructured/reformed programs of study should provide the basis for major inputs, suoh as
textbooks, journals, reference books and equipment, as well as staffing needs and staff
development programs.
4.    Another important concern that should be considered is the expectation that linkages will
be established between tha programs of study of the universities and those of the other tertiary
institutions, particularly those awarding diplomas, to permit easy transfer of students from the
non-university institutions to the universities. Currently, there is no established scheme for
linking the programs of the non-university institutions with those of the universities.
5.    Furthermore, such flexibility is expected to enable the universities themselves to offer a
wider range of opportunities to students with respect to programs' subject course nations.
6.    The exercise on program restructuring and change should also focus on the question of
accreditation. The accreditation process that was being pursued by the erstwhile National Council
for Higher Education has been in abeyance for some time. But now that the universities are



- 142 -
ANNEX S9
Page 5 of 10
embarking on curriculum development it is important that steps ;- e taken to proceed with
accreditation of programs of study according to the guidelines worked out by the National
Implementation Committee on Tertiary Reforms and its Accreditation Sub-Committee.
Objectives
7.    Immediate:
(a)   to examine academic programs of the universities and agree on guidelines to use
for restructuring existing programs; and for formulating new programs;
(b)   to identify program areas of study in the context of major factors which are
indicative of national development goals and which reflect the changing needs of
all categories of students in view of the changing cultural and socioeconomic
conditions of the country and the world; and
(c)   to become thoroughly conversant with the accreditation process to the point of
contributing to successful application of program/institutional accreditation.
S.    Long Term:
(a)   to appreciate that curriculum plays a major role in determining instruction; and
(b)   to identify and understand for implementation the various elements in curriculum
planning and implementation, namely, definition of objectives, selection and
organization of content, methods or procedures of implementation and evaluation.
Specific Terms of Reference and Duties of the Expert
9.    The expert will be expected to:
(a)    assist the universities in examining their academic programs and assess the
possibilities for restructuring/reforming them;
.
(b)    define the guidelines to use for restructuring existing programs and for
formulation of new programs for consideration and agreement with the
universities, and then assist them to apply the guidelines in formulating programs
of study;
(c)   review the SSS syllabuses in relation to objectives and programs of study of the
universities, and advise on the structure and the programs of study suitable for
such graduates, including the first-year foundation courses.
(d)    work with the Accreditation Sub-Committee of the National Implementation
Committee for Tertiary Reforms on the modifications needed to establish linkages
between programs of study of similar disciplines in use in various tertiary
institutions; and



- 143 -
ANNEX-4A2
Page 6 of 10
(e)    mount periodic seminars to train the staff of the universities in the process of
curriculum development and research activities in curriculum evaluation for
assessing the effectiveness of curricula.
Quallfications and Experience of Expert Required
10.   The expert should preferably have obtained a Ph.D in Curriculum Studies, with
specialization in Curriculum Theory and IPractice applicable to higher education.
11.   The expert should have had experience working in a university system linked to a junior
(community) college. He/she should also have been involved in developing programs in a
flexible system of education preferably the semester/course system. In this connection his/her
involvement in the coordination of curricula of a university in relation to those of a junior college
will be an advantage. The coordinating role of the expert should have involved securing
accreditation for programs of study. Experience in implementing innovative programs will be
an advantage.



- 144 -
ANNEXI -2
Page 7 of 10
University of Ghana: Technical Assistance To Support Centralized Timetabling
with Efficient Space Allocation for Universities
Title and Post to be Filled
1.     Centralized Timetabling and Space Allocation Expert.
Jistirication for Technical Assistance
2.     The reforms taking place in education from the basic level, through secondary school to
the tertiary level, would call for the enhancement of accessibility to tertiary institutions. For
instance, it is planned to increase the present level of enrollments in the universities from 12,747
to 18,500 by the 1994/95 academic year when senior secondary school graduates will enter the
universities. This increase in planned enrollments will call for maximization of utilization of
facilities in the universities, particularly classrooms, laboratories, studies and workshops.
3.     At present, in the universities, time and space allocation for academic work is inefficient
because it is not centrally done, but by individual departments and/or faculties. The purpose of
the project is to ensure that timetables for course work and practical work of all faculties of each
of the three universities will be prepared centrally.
Details of the Project
4.     In carrying out the project, it will be necessary to:
(a)    assess the adequacy of facilities based on pertinent design standards;
(b)    apply space standards as a guide to more efficient utilization of teaching facilities;
and
(c)    train university personnel in computer-assisted centralized timetabling.
5.     The design -f the centralized timetables for maximization of space utilization will depend
on the availability of appropriate computing facilities. There are plans to provide such facilities
for each university. These facilities will be available for use by planning officers and staff of the
academic registrars' offices of the universities. All the officers named here would require
training in computer-assisted central timetabling.
6.     The training should start with a seminar in computerized central timetabling. This would
be followed by visits of the expert to the individual universities to design the centralized
timetabling schedules for each university. The planning officers will be the counterparts in the
project.
Objectives
7.     Immediate:
(a)    to assist the universities to prepare computerized central timetables to promote
maximization in the use of academic facilities in the universities; and



- 145 -
ANNEX 49
Page 8 of 10
(b)   to train planning officers and selected staff of the academic registrars' offices of
the universities to prepare computerized central timetables.
S.    Long Term: To enable the universities to adopt centralized timetabling of academic
facilities and to enable them to benefit from the pooling of all lecture rooms, laboratories,
workshops, studios, etc., in the various departments and faculties.
Spedfic Terms of Reference and Duties of the Expert
9.    The Centralized Timetabling and Space Utilization Expert will be responsible for:
(a)   reviewing the course structure of the universities, particularly the bi-semester and
the modular academic coursework that has been introduced into the tertiary
system of education in the country to determine their impact on timed space
utilization;
(b)    assessing the current capacity utilization of a teacher's time and teaching space
within the across departments and faculties and determine the constraints in the
current system in relation to the course structures;
(c)    designing for implementation centralized schedules for coursework and space
utilization for the universities, taking into account the peculiarities of each
institution;
(d)   training personnel in the universities in the art of computerized central
timetabling and efficient allocation of space and the application of the schedules
described in (c) above; and
(e)    monitoring, and where necessary assisting in the modification of the schedules
to ensure their effective and efficient implementation.
Qualtications and Experience of Expert Required
10.   The expert should have had experience in the operation of the bi-semestral academic year
in a university and implementation of modular course structure. Also, the person should have
had experience in the preparation of central timetables for a university and should have been
involved in making space and time allocation of academic facilities for teaching purposes.
Experience in a developing country will be an advantage.



- 146 -
ANN2 49
Page 9 of 10
University of Ghana: Technical Assistance for Career Advisory Services
Title and Post to be Filled
1.    Advisor on Career Services for students.
Background/Justification
2.    Currently the universities in Ghana do not play active roles in job placement of students
after graduation. In fact, the universities do not have a functional placement service unit. Even
where a placement service unit exists its activities are limited to documentation of information
on career prospects for graduates. The information, which is usually out-of-date, has been
supplied by the departments.
3.    The list of career prospects therefore does not reflect the current socioeconomic
development needs of the country. Also, the career prospects listed are devoid of a job
description for e.-eh manpower area for which students may be interested. Finally there appears
to be very little interaction with industry and the business community in general. Thus, what is
needed in each university is a career advisory center, which will offer free and confidential career
counseling services. In its career education activity, the center will provide the right type of
information which can guide students in the development of appropriate knowledge and skills to
facilitate students' choice of carers and enhance their employability. it should also act as a liaison
office with industry.
Objectives
4.    Immediate:
(a)   to train staff in a variety of student advisory skills;
(b)   to encourage students to identify their needs and capabilities;
(c)   to relate the above information available on occupations in the country;
(d)   to support students either to look and apply for jobs or to create jobs for
themselves; and
(e)   to put industry and employers in general into contact with students.
5.    Long Term: To set up career advisory centers in the universities to help students with
their career planning and the achievement of their career objectives and to facilitate an interaction
between the business community and the universities.
Specific Terms of Reference anid Duties of the Expert
6.    ITe expert will be required to:



- 147 -
ANNO
Page 10 of 10
(a)    review the structure and operation of career advisory services that exist in the
universities and elsewhere in the country to determine the constraints militating
against their effectiveness;
(b)    in light of the above, help designated officers of the universities to establish
career advisory centers in the universities to provide guidance for students to plan
and achieve their occupational goals;
(c)    train for each university at least two career advisory officers to implement an
effective career advisory service for students;
(d)    write for use by career advisory officers an operational advisory manual on
career advising adopted for Ghana; and
(f)    hold a seminar on career advisory services for representatives of all tertiary
institutions in the country, including the universities, the polytechnics, the
university colleges and institutions of the RECAAST System toward the end of
the assignment.
7.     The topics to be considered include:
(a)    student personnel services;
(b)    industrial liaison;
(c)   job identification;
(d)    planning and searching for occupation; and
(e)    preparing operational advisory manual.
Qualifications and Experience of Expert Required
8.    The expert should have had experience as a career advisory officer in a university. The
person should have been involved in the implementation of a job placement program for students
in a university. Experience in a developing country will be an advantage. The expert should
have a higher degree in fields related to career advising and job placement.



- 148 -
ANNEX 5-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
ITEM                              1992              1 m             1994             1995              1996
CIVIL WORKS
Select
architects/engineers          xxx              xxx
Rehabilitation                xxx              xxxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx
Sanitation facilities         xxx             xxxxxxxxx
New butldlngs/Cwnvletions                         xxxxxx       xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxx
EQUIPMENT
Procurement agents            xxx
First terider                                  XXXXXXXXX_ =
Second tender                                                  xxxxxxxxxxxx
Third tender                                                                    xxxxxxxxxxxx
Fourth tender                                x_x_xxxxxxsa
COMPUTERS
First tender                                  xxxxxrxxxxxx
Second tender                                                  xxxxxxxxxxxx
Third tender                                                                    xxxxxxxxxxxx
VEHICLES
First tender                                  xxxxxxxxxxxx
TEXTBOC(S AND REFERENCE
BOOKS
Distributor                   xxx              xxx
First tender                                      xxxxxx       xxxxxxxxx
Second tender                                                     xxxxxx        xxxxxxxxx
LIBRARY JOURNALS
Distributor                   xxx              xxx
Arnual subscrIDtions          xxx                 xxx             xxx
OTHER CONSULTANT SERVICES
TA to MME and Boards                          xxxxxxxxvxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx
Studies                                       xxxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx
TA to Universities                            xxxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxx
TA to University/College                      xxxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxx
TA to Pot.technic        -                                     xwxx x           xxxxx            xxxxxx



- 149 -
ANNEX. 5-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimatet Maeule of Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
projected DLabuza.nta            lroporetLoa Disbursed
Y-ar and                                         _                             _
s8  ester                    sexester      cuul-ative            S-Reatr         Cunulative
1993       lot                  5.8              5.8                12.;            12.9
2nd                  2.0              7.8                 4.4            17.3
1994       lst                  3.2             11.0                 7.1            24.4
2nd                  4.0             15.0                 6.9            33.3
1995       lot                  5.0             20.0                11.1            44.4
2nd                  5.0             25.0               11.1             53.6
1996       tat                  5.0             30.0                11.1            66.7
2nd                  5.0             35.0                il.1            77.8
1997       lot                  4.0             39.0                 8.9            86.7
2nd                  3.0             42.0                 6.7            93.3
1996       lst                  3.0             45.0                 6.7           100.0



- 150 -
ANNEX 5-3
SDREMM.UUM
Eav P.fforaanea 2ndlo«tpia
1992      1993      1994      1995       1996
Tertiary/votal
Recurrent                                                                                    16.3
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96
Coat Recoverys
Applliatlon Few       a          Univ..                  1500-2000       4000
Others             1000      1000      2000
oustel Vese/Costs    *                                 0         0        100       100       100
RgIstration +
Application ftme/
Acedenlo Costs        *                                                                         5
Student Loanm  (n)  a            aoesndmt          6oooo     90000
on-Resident       80000
Other .
=S tMZMB
1991/92   1992/93  1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
Zntakes               No.        go
US!
DCC
Total Unlvs.       4475      4500      4500       5S00      5500      3500       5500
Znrollasnte           NO.        go
US!
DCC
Tot d nLv..       13124     14500     15500      17250     16500     19500      20000
UC                 2400      2500      2600       2600      2600      2800       2800
Total Polys       10000     10500     11000      11500     12000     13000      14000
students/
Academic Staff         No.       us                                                  1s
(Average)                       US!                                                  15
VCC                                                 15
totell olys          11        11        12         13        14         15
Non-Acadsmoa
staff/studmts                    u Us                                                          30
US!                                                           30
UCC                                                           30
1992      1993      1994      1995       1996
Library AcquIs-
ltlon/total                      go                                                   S
PaReczrnt             I          US!                                                  5
Maintananos
Total Recurrent       I          go 
US!                                                  5
BCC                                                  5



- 151 -
ANN EX 5-4
Page 1 of 2
,RBPUBLC 0-F aHA
IERWtYEDUCATION POIC
Prgposed Sugersidon Pl«
Obiec  utiv                   es hff
Oct 1992           1. Coordinating unit            Task Manager
2. Procurement agents
Dec 1992           1.Project lmch                  Task Maager
2.Procurement agents           Planner (Accra)
3.Effectiveness                PHR Officer (Accr)
4.Workl/budget 1993
Mar 1993           l.Architects                    Task Mmnager
2.Procurement                  Planner (Accra)
3.Disbursement                 Architect
conditions                  Pouement spec.
4.Polytechnics TA              Technical Education Spec.
Total PY93                   18
Jul 1993           I.Procurement                   Task Manager
2.Training 1993/94             PHR Officer (Accra)
3.Studies 1993                 Procurement spec.
4.Fees/student loans
Nov 1993           1.PER                           Task Mmager
2.lntakes/0rollments           PHR Office (Acc)
3.Work/budget 1994             Higher Education Spec.
4.Procurement                  Economist
May 1994           l.Procurement                   Task Mnager
2.Training 1994/95             PHR Officer (Accra)
3.Studies 1994                 Technical Education Spec.
Totsl PY94                   15



- 152 -
AMX 4
Pag. 2 of 2
Nov 1994            I.Mid-Term Review               Task Manager
2.PER                           PHR Officer (Accra)
3.Work/budget 199S              Higher Education Spec.
4.Procurement                   Economist
May 199s            I.Procurement                   Task Manager
2.Training 199S/96              PHR Officer (Aeera)
Technical Education Spec.
Total FY95                    15
Nov 1995            1.PER                           Task Manager
2.Intakes/enrolhments           PHR Officer (Acorn)
3.Staffing                      Economist
4.Wokc/budget 1996
_.Procurement
May 1996            I.Procurement                   Task Manager
2.Training 1996/97              PHR Officer (Acor)
Tota FY96                     15
Nov 1996            I.Intakes/enrollments           Task Manager
2.Work/budget 1997
(wind-up activities)
May 1997            l.Final disbursments            Task Manager
Total FY97                     6
Nov 1997            1.TUtakes/enroltments           Task Manager
2.Final SPN                     PHR Officer (Accra)
3.PCR                           Evaluation Spec.
May 1998            l.Finatize PCR                  Task Manager
Total FY98                    10
Grand Total                   79



- 153 -
ANNEX s-s
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Project File
Sector Documents
1.    Ministry of Education, "University Rationalization Study' Volume I, Interim Report,
December 1987
2.    Ministry of Education, 'University Rationalization Study" Volume II, Final Report,
January 1988
3.    White Paper on the Reforms to the Tertiary Education System, Command No.
0001/97, August 1990
4.    Medium-Term Implementation Plan, April 1991
5.    Ministry of Education, "Upgrading Ghanaian Polytechnics to Tertiary Level", June
1990
6.    Ministry nf Education, "Special Accreditation Study", August 1990
7.    Ministry of Educat;on, UNDP/UNESCO, "Module 1: Developing a Programme-
Linked Budget for the University System of Ghana", April 1991
S.    Ministry of Education, "Strengthening Administration of Non-University Tertiary
Institutions", August 1991
9.    Ministry of Education, "Revised Projections of Student Flows and Current Cost of
Education in Ghana, 1992-2000', April 1992
10.   Ministry of Education, 'Establishment of University College of Education at
Winneba, September 1992", April 1992
11.   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, "Public Investment Programma 1992-
1994", April 1992
12.   SSNIT, "Report on Social Security and National Insurance Trust Students Loan
Scheme", April and July 1992



- 154 -
ANNEX5-
Page 2 of 2
13.   Ministry of Education, "Report on Workshop on Maintenance of Scientific Equipment
in our Higher Educational and Research Institutions", October 1991
hJmect-Related Dcuments
1.    Ministry of Education, "Strategies and Funding Proposals for Tertiary Education",
June 1991
2.    Ministry of Education, "Strategies and Funding Proposals for Tertiary Education
Scenario I", November 199Y
3.    Ministry of Education, "Strategies and Funding Proposals for Tertiary Education
Scenario U", November 1991
4.    Appraisal Mission Documents, March-April 1992:
(a)    Report by R.W. Lewis
(b)   Report by V. Selvaratnam
(c)    Technical Consultant's Report on the Tour of Polytechnics, K. Brown
(d)    Estimated Cost of Polytechnic Reform Program - Ghana, K. Brown



,,It                                  ,       _        IBRD 240
BURKINA FASO                   ,     _
GHANA
4gO1   LJ GATh} 5,OA  X         TERTIARY EDUCATION
Eb h UPPER 's   - Q#Srtm  *\PROJECT
2\ f~WEST    9                                  \%
*   UNIVIUmU
noX   WA I__lBinRoa . - \<gr   )  uy _ _ o  /    2 >         A   UN"RV  COLLLEGE
,    POLYTECHNICS
\   5               < ~~~~~NORTHERN  {,'y   W  
pO°  C XSeC ND, -     5   ROADS
*--TEflAIkY ROADS
_   REOION HMADQUARERS
NAT\ONAL CArTNAL
CC>TE                                                                          AMb RE| ON BOUNDWES
D'IVOIRE   \  \  \2 ?,    5   t          tasaM°ig(XLt                           INTE4AMONAL BOUNDANES
/ (   /  um,an     A        /)                   i      6GULF ,FGUINFA  -"
I            A<(                                                  12)    '  G  *  0 3  V  V  _
-0 dor4 >  SD mmTOGO
W :    X    3    S   --- ---- 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ame
.   -75EKONDI w en lb d~~~~~~~~KO
onDdi                                                      R        :*-
.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~GULF OF GUINEA 
JULY 199



