. 7.j
CREDIT NUMER 2428 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Tertiary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    xo    M  t,   9           , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2428 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    -$kAj1bmx              , 1992, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
September 16, 1992, from the Borrower (hereinafter called the Policy
Letter) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to reform the Borrower's tertiary education sector, and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such
program;
(B)   the Borrower, having satisfied     itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)   "CU" means the MOE Coordinating Unit for Managing
External Funding to be established in accordance with Section 6.01
(a) of this Agreement in the Office of the Secretary for Education;
(c)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;


﻿-2-
(d)   "Polytechnics" means the following institutions: (i)
Accra   Polytechnic,  (ii)  Cape   Coast  Polytechnic,   (iii)  Ho
Polytechnic, (iv) Kumasi Polytechnic, (v) Takoradi Polytechnic, and
(vi) Tamale Polytechnic;
(e)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 6, 1991 and
October 3, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)   "Research Fund" means the fund for research described in
Part B.5 of the Project;
(g)   "Research Fund Sub-Project" means any research activity
to be financed from the Research Fund in accordance with the
selection criteria referred to in Paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(h)   "Social Security and National Insurance Trust" means the
Social Security and National Insurance Trust, established pursuant
to the Borrower's N.R.C.D. 127 (1972), as supplemented by P.N.D.C.L.
247 (1991);
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)   "Tertiary Education Reform Program" means the Borrower's
White Paper on the Reforms to the Tertiary Education System, Command
No. 0001/97, dated August 6, 1990;
(k)   "Universities" means the University of Ghana, the
University of Science and Technology, and the University of Cape
Coast; and
(1)   "University College" means the institution to be
established by the Borrower to unify the following colleges: (i)
School of Ghana Languages (Ajumako), (ii) College of Special
Education (Akwapem Mampong), (iii) National Academy of Music
(Winneba), (iv2 Specialist Training College (Winneba), (v) Advanced
Teacher Training College (Winneba), (vi) Kumasi Advanced Technical
Teachers' College (Kumasi), and (vii) St. Andrew's Training College
(Ashanti Mampong).


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty one million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prrevaration Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15, 2003 and ending September 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 2012 shall be one percent (1Z) of cuch principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-5-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank a tertiary
education project account on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association to be used exclusively for the purpose of meeting


﻿-6-
expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement, deposit into said account,
promptly before each fiscal quarter starting after the Effective
Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution to the
financing of the Project required for such fiscal quarter, as
estimated by the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Scheduln. 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) contain intakes and
enrollments within the ceilings set forth in the Policy Letter, (ii)
adjust student/academic staff ratios to the levels provided for in
the Policy Letter, (iii) implement the cost-recovery mechanisms
described in the Policy Letter, and (iv) limit the percentage of the
Borrower's recurrent budget for education allocated to and
subsequently expended on tertiary education to the level set forth
in the Policy Letter.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Universities, Polytechnics
and University College to: (i) contain intakes and enrollments
within the ceilings set forth in the Policy Letter, (ii) adjust
student/academic staff ratios to the levels provided for in the
Policy Letter, and (iii) implement the cost-recovery mechanisms
described in the Policy Letter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) adopt a public
expenditure program for tertiary education for fiscal years 1993,
1994, 1995 and 1996 acceptable to the Association, and shall ensure
that actual expenditures under such program do not deviate by more
than 1OZ from amounts budgeted thereunder (except for higher actual
expenditures resulting from salary increases not budgeted for in
such program); and (b) review with the Association, not later than
September 30 of each year, the budgetary allocations required for
the succeeding fiscal year to implement the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall implement and shall cause the
Social Security and National Insurance Trust to implement, in a
timely manner, the action plan for modifying the tertiary education
student loan scheme agreed upon with the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association, not earlier than September 30, 1994 and not later
than March 31, 1995, a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project and the program described in the Policy
Letter. This review shall cover, among other things: (i) enrollment
levels, (ii) budgetary allocations and expenditures, (iii) cost-
recovery mechanisms, (iv) the operation of the student loan scheme,
(v) student-to-academic staff ratios, (vi) non-academic staff
numbers, (vii) time/space/facility utilization ratios, (viii)
maintenance and library acquisition budgets, and (ix) the
effectiveness of the technical assistance provided under the Project
in transferring skills.
(b)   Based  on  such  review, the Borrower    shall, where
necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the Project and
the program set forth in the Policy Letter, promptly prepare an
action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further
implementation thereof and shall thereafter implement such action
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Rorrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish   to  the  Association,   as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail


﻿-8-
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish    to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit A, -ount were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives      to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that   such  records  and accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-9-
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the program set forth in the Policy Letter, or a sign1ficant
part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)   the charter or other constitutive document of any
University, Polytechnic or the University College shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
materially and adversely affect its ability to assist in carrying
out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the CU shall have been established under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and shall be staffed with
personnel with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association;
(b)   the Borrower   shall have established the tertiary
education project account referred to in Section 3.02 and shall have
deposited therein an initial amount in Cedis equivalent to $70,000;
and
(c)   MOE shall have selected: (i) a procurement agent for
equipment, (ii) a textbook and reference book distributor, and (iii)
an architectural and engineering consulting firm, each under terms
of reference and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section  7.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
PNDC Secretary for Finance and
Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:           Telex:
ECONOMICON          2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of Americaq as of the .day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By  /j/  dc-b  /   24
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /c'i/ £dC-   Q C(        If-fLC
Regional Vi e President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
CateRorv              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works under        8,300,000        80%
the Project (other
than Part B.6)
(2)   Equipment,              11,000,000        100% of foreign
Computers and                             expenditures and
Vehicles under the                        90% of local
Project (other than                       expenditures
Parts B.5 and B.6)
(3)   Books and Journals       2,700,000        100% of foreign
under the Project                         expenditures
(other than Part B.6)
(4)   Training under           1,530,000        100%
the Project (other
than Part B.6)
(5)   Consultants' Services    2,850,000        100%
under the Project
(other than Parts B.5
and B.6)
(6)   Research Fund Sub-         700,000        100%
Project Expenditures
(7)   Studies                     70,000        100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(8)   University College         900,000        100Z of foreign
Expenditures                               expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(9)   Incremental                180,000        90%
Recurrent Costs
(10) Refunding of                420,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(11) Unallocated               2,550,000
TOTAL                   31,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "Research Fund Sub-Project expenditures" means
expenditures for equipment and other costs incurred in carrying out
any Research Fund Sub-Project;
(d)   the term "training" means expenditures for fellowships,
conferences, workshops, courses and other forms of training, each as
are approved by the Association;


﻿- 14 -
(e)   the  term  "University  College  expenditures" means
expenditures for civil works, equipment, vehicles, books, training
and consultants' services required for Part B.6 of the Project; and
(f)   the  term  "incremental  recurrent costs" means the
incremental Project-related costs incurred by the CU for office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, and salaries for
contract staff.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed SDR 700,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1992;
(b)   under Category   (6) until the Borrower shall have
established terms and conditions acceptable to the Association for
the operation of the Research Fund, including criteria for the
selection of research proposals and arrangements for its management;
and
(c)   under Category (8) until: (i) the University College
shall have been established by instrument acceptable to the
Association, (ii) the principal of the University College shall have
been appointed, and (iii) a memorandum of understanding between the
University College and the Borrower shall have been executed, in
form and substance acceptable to the Association, setting forth
their respective rights and obligations with respect to the Project
and the program set forth in the Policy Letter.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower's
management and operation of tertiary education and support its
related sectoral reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Ministry of Education
1.    Increasing the institutional capacity of MOE to manage
tertiary education, in particular in connection with the Borrower's
implementation of the Tertiary Education Reform Program, including:
(a) training of staff, (b) establishment of a management information
system, and (c) preparation of labor market demand and other
studies.
2.    Establishment  and  operation   of  the  following   tertiary
education boards: (a) a board of accreditation, (b) a joint
admissions and matriculations board, and (c) a board for technical
and professional examinations.
Part B:     Universities, Polytechnics and the University College
1.    Rehabilitation  and  expansion  of   the  buildings  at   the
Universities and Polytechnics, including:
(a)   at the Universities: construction and rehabilitation of
libraries, lecture theaters, laboratories, workshops, campus
facilities for non-resident students, and sanitary facilities; and
(b)   at the Polytechnics: construction and rehabilitation of
laboratories, workshops, classrooms, campus facilities for non-
resident students, and sanitary facilities.
2.    Improving the laboratory and workshop facilities at the
Universities   and  Polytechnics   through  the   acquisition   and
maintenance of equipment.
3.    Increasing   student   access   at   the  Universities    and
Polytechnics: (a) to reference and resource materials through the


﻿- 16 -
acquisition of textbooks and other reference books, and through
subscriptions to journals, and (b) to computers.
4.    Improving the institutional capacities of the Universities and
Polytechnics to provide educational services through, inter alia:
(a)   training  of   staff,   including  the   provision   of
fellowships;
(b)   the computerization of administrative, planning and
library services;
(c)   the acquisition of vehicles for administrative purposes
and student field trips;
(d)   the acquisition of teaching aids;
(e)   the development and operation o' a centralized system
for timetabling and space allocation and of a management information
system at each institution; and
(f)   the establishment of student career advisory services.
5.    Establishment and operation of a fund to support research by
the Universities (the Rewearch Fund).
6.    Strengthening the education services of the University College
through:
(a)   completion  of the science block building, library
refurbishing and construction and rehabilitation of sanitary
facilities;
(b)   improvement  of  laboratory  and workshop   facilities
(including the acquisition and maintenance of equipment);
(c)   increase of student access: (i) to reference        and
resource materials (including the acquisition of textbooks and other
reference books and subscriptions to journals), and (ii) to
computers; and
(d)   (i) training of staff, including the provision of
fellowships, (ii) the computerization of administrative, planning
and library services, (iii) the acquisition of vehicles for
administrative purposes and student field trips, (iv) the


﻿- 17 -
acquisition of teaching aids, (v) the development and operation of
a centralized system for timetabling and space allocation and of a
management information system, and (vi) the establishment of a
student career advisory service.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works for the
Polytechnics and the University College shall be grouped into single
bid packages for each institution.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
third-party inspection firms.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance


﻿- 19 -
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items for (a) works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000, and (b) goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. To the
extent practicable, contracts for civil works for the Polytechnics
and the University College shall be grouped into single bid packages
for each institution.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract (i) for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and (ii) for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d,) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 20 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall continue to operate the CU under terms of
reference, and with staff with qualifications and experience,
acceptable to the Association.
2.    OE shall employ procurement agents for equipment, and
architectural and engineering consultants, each with qualifications
and experience and under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
3.    In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, MOE shall establish
and operate a management information system for tertiary education.
4.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, MOE shall prepare and
complete by December 31, 1994 the following studies, under terms of
reference agreed upon with the Association: (a) a manpower survey
study, (b) an analysis of the socio-economic composition of the
student body in tertiary education, (c) an evaluation of
possibilities for private provision of tertiary education, (d) a
study of prospects for income generation by tertiary education
institutions, and (e) a study of the scope of female participation
in tertiary education.
5.    The Borrower shall cause the Universities, Polytechnics and
the University College to carry out Part B of the Project: (a) under
the coordination of MOE, and (b) in accordance with the standards
set forth in Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement.
6.    In carrying out Part B of the Project, MOE shall establish, to
the satisfaction of the Association: (a) a workprogram identifying
the civil works to be carried out under Parts B.1 and B.6(a); (b) a
list identifying the laboratories and workshops to be equipped under
Parts B.2 and B.6(b); (c) guidelines for selecting the textbooks and
reference books to be acquired under Parts B.3 and B.6(c); and (d)
guidelines for identifying the computers to be acquired under Parts
B.3 and B.6(c).
7.    In carrying out Parts B.4 and B.6(d) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the Universities, Polytechnics and the
University College to prepare, by January 31, annual programs for
staff training for the following academic year satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 22 -
8.    In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
operate the Research Fund under the terms and conditions established
in accordance with paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means   an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 24 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 25 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion tF.-eof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR     C    TARY


